ParlaMint-DK_20180228130007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews, and on the basis of the many submissions, I shall not read the titles; I will mention only the numbers: Transport, Building and Housing Minister (Ole Birk Olesen): Bill no. L 152 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code and the Act on the Registration of Vehicles. Bill No. L 153 (Opinion amending the Building Act. Bill No. L 154 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Air Transport. Minister for Defence (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 155 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Centre for Cybersecurity. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 156 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill No. L 157 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure. Bill No. L 158 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure. Bill No. L 159 (Proposal for a law amending the law on police matters, the law on the administration of justice, the defence law and the military penal code. Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado): Bill No. L 160 (Proposal for a law amending the daily offer law and the Law on primary school. Bill No. L 161 (Proposal for a Law on Social Free Cards) and Bill No. 162 (Proposal for a law amending the law on legal certainty and administration in the social field. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille): Bill no. L 163 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Central Register of Persons). Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 164 (Proposal for a Law on Supply Control), Bill No. L 165 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electricity, the Law on Natural Gas Supply, the Law on Heat Supply, the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy and the Law on Electricity). Bill No. L 166 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy. Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 167 (Proposal for a law amending the Food Law. Bill No. L 168 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Nature Conservation. Bill No. L 169 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 170 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorization of Healthcare Persons and on Healthcare Activities and the Law on the Use of Force in the Somatic Treatment of Permanent Inhabile. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 171 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on loans for the payment of property taxes, the Property Assessment Act and various other laws. Bill No. L 172 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the tax on road use and the Law on the registration of vehicles. Bill No. L 173 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations and various other laws. Bill No. L 174 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on withholding tax, the law on equations, the Law on seafarer taxation and the Law on registration fees. Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen): Bill No. L 175 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Safe Seas and Seas). Bill No. L 176 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Guarantee Fund for Non-life Insurance Companies and the Law on Financial Activities. Bill No. L 177 (Proposal for a law amending the law on cooperative housing associations and other housing communities. Torsten Gejl (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 79 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to home cultivation of cannabis for personal consumption). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have to inform you that this by Peter Kofod Poulsen under No. 11 questions put to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing (S 571) are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130130	The first question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by Mr Gundelach. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130156	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130159	Thank you. I read out: What is the reason why, according to the article "Deportation of Iraqis" the Foreign Minister is splitting up the governing parties in Berlingske on 23 February will not cut Denmark's support for Iraq in order to press the country's authorities to accept the currently 138 rejected asylum seekers and expelled criminal Iraqis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130225	Thank you for the question. In my reply, I would like to address the issue of stabilisation aid, as the Minister for Development has already addressed the issue of Denmark's humanitarian contribution to Iraq in the article in Berlingske. The stabilisation funds for Iraq, on the other hand, are channelled mainly through multilateral organisations and are directly linked to the international fight against ISIL, which is being conducted within the framework of the global anti-ISIL coalition, where Denmark has a prominent role. As a consequence of the nature of the aid, Denmark has no bilateral agreement with the Iraqi Government on the use of the stabilisation funds, but is covered by the UN General Framework Agreement with Iraq. In addition, by engaging in stabilisation efforts through the UN, such as mine clearance, basic security and infrastructure reconstruction, we are creating security and economic opportunities for the local population so that they do not have to flee. So, hopefully, we will stop the flow of refugees, which would otherwise grow, up against, among others. Denmark, and at the same time, in the long term, we will help to make it possible for refugees and internally displaced persons to return home instead of looking further towards Europe. It would therefore be a very short-term approach to cut the existing stabilisation funds for Iraq as part of a somewhat too much approach. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130353	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130355	Thank you for your answer. I would say that one of the reasons why we are asking the question today is, of course, that we are a little confused, and I think that the public too is. For Rasmus Jarlov, who represents one of the governing parties, namely the Conservatives, on 23 February, says that the Conservatives are prepared to cut support for Iraq. He said to Berlingske: "Iraq must accept his own citizens' term. It's not up for discussion. If the country does not understand it in any other way, we must begin to cut back on the enormous aid that Denmark is providing to the Iraqi Government. Both our humanitarian aid and our military contribution may be at stake. ▪ What is the Foreign Minister's position on this? That is why we are a little confused, because we can say that we assume that the government speaks with one voice, and then there is a party that I have just quoted here that says so, and then I have just listened to the Minister's reply. What is the government's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130450	Well, now I'm tempted to say, I'm the state. But I won't. But I am certainly a representative of the government and the government has one line, and that is what I have explained. In fact, I understand the point of view put forward by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, and it may seem logical at first sight, that we must then tighten up in relation to support. The first is that we do not have direct bilateral agreements with the Iraqi Government. Secondly, there is the second part of the balance, which I have explained and which is extremely important, namely whether it is wise to cut precisely in the area in which we can hopefully prevent further flows of refugees while at the same time helping to rebuild, so that we can go home instead of looking further up in Europe. There the government has clearly put the claim in such a way that we must ensure that we retain the prominent position we have in relation to the anti-ISIL actions and in relation to the stabilisation efforts. So that's why it's the government's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130545	At any rate, we have found that Rasmus Jarlov appears to have spoken on his own behalf and not on behalf of the Conservatives, because we have to assume that the Conservatives are also speaking on behalf of the government, as they are part of the governing parties. But if I go into the Minister's arguments, then we are still left with the situation that we have 138 rejected asylum seekers and criminal Iraqis. So the question is, what does the government intend to do to get them home? I assume that we agree that the 138 do not reside here on a legal basis and that they will therefore have to return to Iraq. So what does the government actually intend to do in that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130634	Then we'll just remember Mr... and Mrs... when we talk about each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130639	Thank you. And I cannot end up in a situation where I call on the author to call Mr. Rasmus Jarlov in consultation or down to answer questions in the Assembly Hall. So we have to deal with that bilaterally, that is to say, we have to clear up the threads further. Well, what we're doing is, of course, we have a dialogue with the relevant parties that we need to discuss this with in order to try to get some agreements in place. And one of the ways in which we can get the agreements in place is to ensure that the stabilisation effort works and is built up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130714	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130716	Can the Minister tell us whether that dialogue is in any way conducive, i.e. whether there is any progress in that dialogue, so that the Minister has a hope that we can begin to send these 138 homes in a short time?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130732	Here you go to the minister for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130734	I have no doubt that the day when this can be done comes closer, among other things. because we have had so much success on the battlefield, where we have managed to get ISIL pulled so much in the background that they have lost 98%. of the territory that they previously had. That is the first condition, that is to say, to get them knocked down, to put it bluntly, and then the stabilisation effort will be set in motion as we are now doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130759	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is by Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130806	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130809	Thank you. What action does the Foreign Minister intend to take to get Iraq to accept the 138 asylum seekers rejected and to deport criminal Iraqis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130817	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130818	Thank you for that question too. The return, which I have just mentioned, is, of course, a high priority for the government, and we are working towards that goal. From the government's point of view, we intend to continue and intensify further the dialogue, as I also pointed out in my previous reply, which we already have with Iraq on that issue. In addition to intensifying the dialogue, which was followed by the appointment of a deployment ambassador in 2017, the government has also decided, in the context of the 2018 Finance Act, to issue an alien attaché specifically intended to cover Iran and Iraq. The number of people in the sending position to Iraq has been decreasing, while there has been an increasing interest in accepting the offer of voluntary repatriation. Iraq is the country of origin to which most people are actually deployed in 2017. But we're at the moment. in writing. - (FR) As a starting point, it is not in a position to impose sanctions on Iraq because the Iraqi authorities do not want to contribute to the execution of forced broadcasts. In this respect, it is obvious that we will take a thorough look in our toolbox to see what other instruments we can use to achieve concrete progress in relation to forced evictions, and that is quite in line with what can be said about the principle of something. However, as I have just explained in my reply to question S 573, a reduction in our existing stabilisation aid to Iraq is not relevant in this respect. In the long term, the means of stabilisation are helping to lay the foundations for people's return. It would be a very short-term approach to this problem to cut the existing stabilisation funds for Iraq as part of a somewhat too little approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130952	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228130955	Thank you for that and also thank you for the Minister's reply. One of the reasons why I am asking this question and that my colleague, Mr. Erik Christensen, asked the question, is, of course, that this is, first of all, a lot of Iraqis, namely 138, but that this is also a problem we see in a large number of countries................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It was also the case that the government in the government base of November 2016 announced that there would be stronger efforts for deployment, as well as several times being a main priority, among other things. when the government presented its foreign and security policy strategy last June. I understand perfectly well that Iraq is a complicated case because of our history as a party to it. We ourselves have also just contributed once again to the defeat of ISIL, which the Minister also mentions. Stability is needed. But can we not say this about virtually all other countries that do not want to cooperate in the field of compulsory broadcasting? In other words, it cannot be said, whether it is Ghana or other countries, that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. Going in and threatening Ghana's aid, will it also help push even more migrants who will not be able to have asylum? Will it not be a • regardless of Iraq's particular situation • equally useful argument on virtually all other countries? And when does the Minister think we can use that tool to start threatening the countries with the fact that we are cutting their support if they do not want to cooperate in taking back rejected asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131141	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131143	I understand the question, but I just think that one should be extremely careful about applying one principle, which should then just apply everywhere, because it is very different from nation to nation with which we work. And what we are starting from today is the situation in Iraq. The situation in Iraq is characterised by the fact that we were, I think, one of the first eight nations to join the anti-ISIL campaign, and we have been very successful with that. Now, together with the Americans, who have also indicated exactly the same thing, we are absolutely determined that we now need to make the stabilisation effort work. Therefore, this situation is different from that which we know from other areas. It is also because what we are talking about today, like is divorced from the Minister for Development, has responded to the second part of it. What I am replying to is this about the stabilisation funds, and they are not given what it is called on a bilateral basis in cooperation with the Iraqi Government. They are given through the multinational organisations and therefore the situations are not comparable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131243	Then it's the questioner again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131244	I understand that answer. The only difference is, in fact, that this is a problem that Denmark has had for seven years with the government in Iraq, and that is also for a long time before the decision that Denmark should be involved in the fight against ISIL was taken, and perhaps even back before we even knew about ISIL in earnest; that is, there have probably been some intelligence people, etc. who have known about this organization, but it had not spread, and it had not begun mass recruitment, and it had not begun to destabilise, among other things. Iraq. That is why we have also reached the point where this is not just about the stabilisation effort and ISIL, but about a more chronic and bigger issue with regard to the government in Iraq. What does the Danish Government intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131336	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131336-2	In other words, we are also on the side of the government in constant dialogue with the Iraqi Government. I have had several meetings with my Iraqi colleague, where we have raised various issues. What is at present the case is that we have participated in the fight against ISIL, which is almost successful in achieving 98 per cent. of the territory on which they have been sitting, we have had them removed from. Now it is important to ensure that they do not suddenly resurrect, and it is of course an issue on which we are broadly united in the Folketing is important to keep our focus. What, then, are we going to do about what is, like, the starting point of the question, namely to get people back home? I have already explained this in my initial reply. In 2017, this government has taken some initiatives, for example. employed a training ambassador, and in connection with the discussion of the 2018 Finance Act, we also agreed that we would have a foreign attaché specifically in favour of covering Iran and Iraq. So we walk on more legs, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131444	There's one more question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131449	There's another one? Okay, great. Thank you again for your reply. It is not, in fact, because we in the Social Democratic Party do not trust the government to do what it can. We hope that the government will do what it can. But I think that we are really just getting to where our patience is exhausted. I can hear that the Foreign Minister, in his reply, focuses a lot on the fact that this is about stabilising after ISIL, but again I would like to say that this has been an issue that we have had with the Iraqi Government for seven years and at least for a long time before we even got involved in the fight against ISIL. That is why it is our view that, in some way, we also have to put our thumb screws on with the Iraqi Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131533	Here you go. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131534	Thank you. When it is to the extent that we have had that problem, that is to say for seven years, we can also conclude that during the four years Social Democracy has been at the top of the table and held government responsibility without apparently solving the problem. We have then stepped up on the part of this government and taken further initiatives, while at the same time, in cooperation with a number of countries and backed up by a broad majority, including the Social Democratic Party, we have succeeded in really moving a long way in the fight against ISIL, and with all those things we are laying the ground so that it can actually succeed. We can actually make it much more probable that we can now also start sending people home next to the people who voluntarily go home already now on the basis of the arrangements that we have also established. So I think it's good signs, it certainly looks considerably better than it did both 2, 3 and 4 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131616	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, the Danish People's Party, and there is a fellow questioner, and that is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131623	Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131629	What are the thoughts of the Minister in relation to his desire for a crackdown on the 2007 police reform and more local police in relation to the decision taken to restructure and centralise North Zealand Police?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131646	Thank you. Thank you for the question. As I have already stated, it is crucial for me as Minister of Justice that we should ensure that the Danes feel safe. This means to me that the citizens feel and by the last few years there has been a great focus on modernisation and increased professionalisation in the Danish police. It has been a necessary process so that the police have been better equipped to meet an ever-changing crime picture. At the same time, the police have been very tense. After all, the fight against terrorism, border controls and, most recently, gang action has meant that we, as a society, have made high demands and put great risks on our police officers. This is an absolutely necessary effort, and I think we should be proud of it. At the same time, of course, citizens have felt that our police have been under pressure. The government is working with the Danish People's Party for a strong police force, and I think we can look back and say that fortunately we have acted in time, because the new, demanding police tasks have come to stay. At the same time, however, there are citizens who, in some cases, feel that the police have gone further, and it is not always enough for citizens that crime statistics are falling if they do not feel safe. There is a need to change that, and I want the citizens to see and experience a more active police force, and it is my ambition for 2018 that we get started on that task and we find some good solutions. That's why I've also bitten the mark to just take the part, we can discuss the subsequent • that Nordsjælland Police among others. will dedicate an area officer to each municipality in the circle, precisely to ensure local knowledge and presence, and I think that is actually a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131829	Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228131831	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his answer. I think it is really nice to hear that the Minister for Justice is very concerned about the closeness of the police, even in those areas where gang crimes or similar major cases may not be experienced on a daily basis. But then there are other things going on. There is a lot of work going on here. burglary, which is a very important and unsustainable form of crime in North Zealand, which also requires the presence of the police. In general, it is the experience, both of citizens and also of private officers, which I have been contacted by the fact that the North Zealand Police Office is already unable to move out to, for example. Hornsherred, if you only have one car available, and it happens to be in the Helsingør area. Then it is very difficult to catch a perpetrator if you have to drive for 45-50 minutes to reach the other end of North Zealand. And it is clear that this is worrying. Well, then I thought it was nice to hear this big centralization debate about the North Zealand Police Department. I just wanted to say that we're not done with that at all. It may well be that a decision has been taken, but we have not finished the discussion on whether it should be implemented at all. I just think it's really important that the Minister for Justice tells us that there should be this close police. And then I just want to hear the Minister for Justice: how will the Minister for Justice make sure that this happens in reality? One thing is that crime is falling. Of course, you can also discuss whether it is, because if there is a criminal relationship, such as one. has called the police, and the police say that unfortunately we do not have the opportunity to move out right now, where is it then recorded as a criminal relationship, and is it included in the crime statistics? There are important factors that need to be borne in mind when deciding what structure you want to have in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132030	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132031	Oh, there were many things that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe mentioned there, which I actually really want to discuss with everyone. I think I might just hit where I want to say that this is very close to my heart. I also believe that we should be careful to say that because a police group organises itself differently, that is to say that it is a step backwards. I note two particular points. Point 1: It is a process that has run over 11⁄2 years with a very, very close involvement of the employees. Paragraph 2: This is supposed to give more patrols on wheels, so you are in the different areas, which means that hopefully you can shorten the response times. And then I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132110	Thank you. And here you go, Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132111	I would like to hear from the Minister for Justice how the Minister of Justice will make sure that it really does happen, that more of these patrols are coming on wheels, and that we are actually getting this wider coverage, which also means that, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. in Hornsherred at the extreme of North Zealand also finds that the police are present in the course of zero comma five.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132136	No one can give that guarantee, but what it is all about, and what we have to follow closely, is that when you sit in Elsinore and have to dispose of the circle, you must of course keep an eye on how to dispose of the cars so that there are wagons scattered across the area. At the same time, of course, we also have to take account of where crime is going, and there the police have a very good statistical material, so they have an idea of where they should at least be close, but at the same time they can also make sure that they can cover the whole circle. I'm not gonna be able to do that. I am very confident that the police officers, with all their professional skills, will be able to sit and commit themselves. But I'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132213	Thank you. And then we'll make room for a co-questioner. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132218	Thank you. When you look at the restructuring plans that have been put forward, I think there are two things that go very clearly again. Before the first, it is the relocation of police years' work, that is to say, where you do not, I would say, drain, but at least move police years' work towards the heaviest populated area in the police districts. And you can have a lot of opinions about that. But it is also something that is being taken away from somewhere, and the place that perhaps most clearly senses the consequences of the restructuring is probably very concrete Frederikssund. Because that's where you lose the patrol drive, and I think you should deal with that. And it is perhaps the greatest weakness in isolation in the whole of the material that has been laid out by the North Zealand Police Department. And it is also like what goes on in the public debate, in other words, that it is one of the areas where response times have been very, very high in the past at least. That's where you take something away. So I would like to ask: does it not give reason for the Minister to say in the particular case that in relation to an exit for the patrols in Frederikssund that it was perhaps one of the worst thorns that could be removed in the bouquet?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132331	I'd rather that there's a car on wheels than that they're parked in a garage and going out first. Then I would rather that in the sparsely populated areas you also have a car on wheels, and that is the disposal that now needs to be looked at. I hope that we will then agree that the police will, hopefully, use the best possible resources, that is, the resources we have given them, and I also hope that agreement will be reached that where crime is seen to be the most serious, the police will be kept close. I do not know, and I am glad to hear proposals on this, whether we will ever get to a point where in sparsely populated areas there will be a very, very short response time. Because the questioner knows as well as I do that the response time comes out of where crime is being committed and where happened to be a car? Well, we can have a response time of almost no time if there is a running patrol nearby, and it can be long if it is at the opposite end of an area. That's why I'm gonna keep an eye on this, but I just think we should use the resources of our police as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132434	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132436	But if you're going to do what the minister says, you're going to have to make it probable. For that will require the Minister to guarantee or give some assurances that there will be more often a car on wheels available in the areas then affected by a closed patrol drive than there would be if an exit was maintained. And that the stability of that advance will be more forward-looking than what can be delivered today. So I just want to hear from the minister if you can give that promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132506	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132507	That's what I want to keep an eye on. 'Cause I'm not gonna be doing police cars. I assume that the police are aware of their responsibilities. I am not for a moment in doubt whether they are and that those who are sitting there should of course have an extra look at the fact that it does not have a negative consequence that there is no exit point. So there we have to make sure that the cars are located so that we can also cover the sparsely populated areas. And I guess we both have an interest in keeping an eye on that. Well, this shouldn't be a bad agenda. It must be an agenda to use resources to the best possible extent, but of course also to be able to move out quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132540	Thank you. Mrs Marlene Harpsøe for a final comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132546	Thank you to the Minister for running for this. In other words, this is a matter which we have in no way finished after having asked the Minister again about it here in the Chamber. However, I would just like to know what the process is from now on, first in relation to the Minister's desire to have more local police presence and a break with the 2007 reform, but also in relation to making sure that there is actually local presence of the police, also in the sparsely populated areas of North Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132618	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132619	One thing is the concrete plan in North Zealand, which can be discussed in isolation. It is, of course, perfectly understandable that we should do so. And then there's the whole of Denmark in general where I'd like to take a look at this. That is also why I have said that I do not have any concrete action ready now, because I have, of course, entered into a dialogue with the police on proposals, and of course I also intend to discuss in the conciliation circle how we can do this. Well, I've started by just like making an impact and saying that I have a plan and a vision that we need to get the police closer. And we need all sorts of good powers to work together on that, and I look forward to discussing it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132652	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister of Justice from Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132659	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132702	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it an appropriate democratic development that there is a virtually systematic censorship on social media, especially when national conservative positions are being expressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132716	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question. After all, this is a very, very important issue that is being raised on this issue. Social media are private companies that can, as a starting point, decide which statements can be shared on their platforms. At the same time, for many people, the Internet has become the main place where opinions are exchanged. Social media give the individual citizen a number of new opportunities to express himself and to receive information. It has become easier to speak out in the public debate, but unfortunately this also means that there is a need to prevent, among other things, the use of drugs. Hateful speech being spread on social media. It may be public incitement to violence against a population group, and I wonder if many of us in here really welcome the fact that we do not read everything that is written about us just for the sake of the mood. Then I also fully acknowledge that the role of social media in public debate can give rise to reflection on freedom of expression. These are extremely difficult issues, and I think we need to be prepared for the fact that there are just no easy solutions to them. The government, together with a broad majority of Parliament's parties, has set up a Freedom of expression commission. The Commission must assess the framework and conditions of freedom of expression in Denmark and, for example, must: look at social media and their importance for freedom of expression; it is, after all, part of the mandate we have made together. Now, of course, I think we should wait for the Freedom of expression Commission to complete its work, and I am absolutely convinced that the Commission's assessments and recommendations will provide a solid basis for the further political debate on the expression of freedom of expression in Denmark and, above all, on the social media, which has become our new assembly house on some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132907	Here you go, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228132910	Thank you. To this extent, I agree with the Minister in his view that these are private companies and that private companies can do whatever they like and to some extent regulate the debate as they like. That is also why I did not put the question as a written question, because then there would be a correct legal answer back in the direction that the Minister then stated. But what is interesting here is that, first of all, I ask the Minister's position about not his personal attitude, so at least his position as Minister of Freedom of Speech is how he feels about the fact that on Facebook and Youtube, for example, it is so that what is today actually the tool of freedom of expression, namely the social media, seems to be subject to a form of systematic censorship. And I must confess that when I first devised this question, I was not even aware that the problem was as severe as it turns out to be. And when I think back to a campaign which, for example, the Conservatives ran a few years ago, about Nazi Islamism, a campaign which, incidentally, I fully support, I can be in doubt, if not exactly the words and phrases used would be censored out today. Quite frankly, there are so many absurd examples of censorship that I think it deserves a little more than that little soft approach to things that the Minister has. For example, one person has quoted Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán directly and has 30 days of quarantine. One person quoted Anker Jørgensen directly, our old prime minister, for once in the 1970s saying that he was concerned about the number of foreigners in Denmark. That gave me 30 days of quarantine. The list is long and these quarantines, restraining orders and bans are of a nature in which it actually distorts the debate, and I would like to challenge the Minister a little bit more on what the Minister really thinks of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133112	From a political point of view, I believe that freedom of expression must have a very, very broad framework, and I believe that this is the best way to ensure a society so that very, very violent things do not happen suddenly because people cannot speak out. I think it is incredibly important that people are allowed to come out with what they are sitting with. Then, of course, there has to be an edge somewhere, and I assume we agree on that too. I also think that Facebook should censor something, but I think one should be very open and I do not think one should be quite restrictive. Let people discuss, because I think that's the healthiest thing for a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133151	Thank you. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133154	Of course, I'm glad. So all we have to do is get what to say about the cream cream on the cake: what will the minister actually do? How will the Minister send that signal to the owners and administrators of the social media in the big world and say: Dear friends, in Denmark we have this view, and you have this in one way or another about not complying, so at least to take note, and we expect the free word to continue to flourish on social media? Will the Minister do so and how will he do so? Can the Minister clarify this a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133223	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133224	I will deal with the fact that we have set up a Commission on Freedom of expression, and I am actually looking forward very much to what they are saying about social media. Because this is hard. We can turn it around. Now we are discussing these days that you have seen on Facebook that you can almost order theft of certain goods and that drugs and stuff like that are being sold. It is, of course, directly illegal, and there we do have a common position that such things should be shut down. So it must be a discussion in which we are all talking about freedom of expression, but we must of course also respect the fact that we are dealing with private companies. And then we have a freedom of expression commission, and I look forward very much to what it brings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133301	There's one more question from Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133304	So, I hear what the Minister is saying, and we fully agree that where it is about regular crime, which is a topical issue in these days, stealing goods, ordering crimes, hateful utterances, insults and all these completely bell-clear offences, there is no doubt that some kind of censorship, removal of postings, closing of Facebook groups, etc. must take place.; it's fine. But where it is going in the ditch, when there is a police station or at least a head of the post office, or whatever you can call him, in Facebook and say: I do not like that speech, it goes in a particular direction, and therefore we simply turn off the debate. In my opinion, this is not at all comparable to bell-clear offences. And what makes it extra absurd is that if you are in doubt about how the law is related, then you can go and read the law and get it explained, but the rules of conduct that you then seem to be violating on Facebook are not, and no one knows exactly where the limit goes for what you can say and what you cannot say. But what people can then see is that there are at least some buzzwords, and there are some pictures and listings and some contexts where the hammer then falls. I do not think it is quite fair to compare statements of opinion with bell-clear offences.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133426	Here you go, last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133427	That was not my intention either; it was just to give an example that there are some things that it goes without saying that we should shut down, and then there is the discussion itself on the other. I think that this is best solved by opening our mouths and discussing it and, like, sending a signal to the private providers behind this and saying that this is the tradition we have in Denmark, and that the reason why this society is actually coherent and that we do not see too violent things happening is that we can get to grips with our opinions and say what we think, think and believe. I think this is absolutely essential for us to continue to have a Denmark where freedom of spirit can prevail. Let people say what they think and think... I think we're gonna get the best society out of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133508	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133517	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133519	Thank you. How will the Minister change the police reform as described in the article "Pape wants more local police in dispute with police reform" at www.berlingske.dk on 8 February 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133531	Thank you. I did not have a clear answer to that last week, nor do I have it today, nor do I have it next week. But as I have said before, it is crucial for me that the Danes feel safe. The citizens must know and they must feel that the police are close, both physically and in their consciousness. As I have also mentioned before, in recent years there has been a great deal of focus on modernisation and increased professionalisation in the Danish police. It has been an absolutely necessary process so that the police today have been better equipped to meet an ever-changing crime picture. It is also no secret, as I said earlier today, that the Danish police have been very tense, and we have put great trust in our police officers, among others. in the context of the fight against terrorism, border guarding and gang action. These are all bets that I think we should be proud of. What I saw at the same time is that the citizens have inevitably also noticed that many resources have been spent on those efforts. This means, among other things, that there are citizens who in some cases feel that the police have gone further away. And that is why we need to think in new ways so that we can continue the modernisation of the police, which is necessary, so that we still have a strong and up-to-date police force, while at the same time citizens experience the police as being present and providing security. As the article to which the questioner refers also shows, it is my ambition for 2018 that we will get this task under way. It takes a thorough piece of work, instead of just putting a lot of work into it. So let's just have a proper look at this. I've asked the National Police to get to work on that preliminary work. And I do not want to stand here and give very firm guidelines as to what measures are to be taken in practice before work is really started. For me, it's important that we go to this with an open mind. Now I get some suggestions, some ideas. Then it is my idea that we should discuss it in the police conciliation circle, and then hopefully we will find some good ways of getting the police the step closer to the citizens, which I think we share the wish for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133733	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133735	Thank you for your answer. In any case, we are in complete agreement on the latter, namely that we need a police force that is closer to the citizens, and very much like a police force that is considerably stronger than the police are today. I think that makes sense. It may also be okay for us to discuss it continuously in the police conciliation circle, but some of the things that really interested me in what the minister was out saying I think it was in Jutland and Funen media, where a very big interview had been given in the newspaper Denmark was just about how to organize Danish police. Now I just found out the article and will quote from it: 'Justitsminister Søren Pape Poulsen will now put an end to the police reform that in 2007 made 54 police circles 12 and set in motion efficiency devices, closed small police stations and made the landscaping a endangered race. ▪ I thought it was exciting. This is the first time in ten years that we have been able to talk about something having to be done in a substantially different way from what has been signaled by the government, including previous governments, before the Minister became minister. So my question is quite simple: does the Minister see any need for a new police reform, or will there only be adjustments within what is the framework today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133853	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133855	My immediate approach will be that with the changes that the police have been through and what they have experienced in recent years, it may not be a new huge organisational process that we have to put them through, but perhaps instead of saying: how can we do some things differently when the cops have come back in the circles when we train more officers? There again, I think, we have a long way to go along with the same points of view. How, then, can we organize the work so that the police get close to the police, of course, while making the most of what the police can and using their resources properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133933	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228133935	I would very much like the Minister to put it into practice in this way, in other words, to come closer. Because I agree with the headlines: what is being discussed in the answer to the question is, after all, a lot in the heading form. But it could be fine if the government had some pointers where they said that this is exactly what we think is important. We're gonna give priority to the near police, to the police, to the police or to the crime prevention work. Is it all the parts, or are they patrols on wheels? Should it be alone, or should there be fewer or more police circles? In other words, could the Minister just say something more concrete than what is in the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134014	The questioner is right to say that I have made a great deal of headlines and statements of opinion, because I would also like to say that as a minister and as a politician, I would like to say where I would like to go. I would also like to do so without necessarily having ten proposals on what I do in concrete terms. I would ask some to make suggestions on this and to discuss it. I have mentioned before the new approach, which we recently saw here in the Central and West Jutland Police Department, with some of the mobile police stations, not to confuse with those we know here from Copenhagen, but some mobile stations that can do more and that can be around different places in the circles. I'd like some more of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134053	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134056	Does the Minister agree with me that there are some things that are being done in the Danish police that should be centralised, while there are other things that should be much more close to the citizen today, that is, where one should organise it in some smaller units, so that the citizens felt that it was getting much closer? The practice may in fact be that you say, on the one hand, that you have something that is very specialized, you cannot have it in all the police circles, you should not have it, it can be so far in one place, but on the other hand there is also something that you have too little of today and that you could have a desire to spread much more locally in the police circles.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134131	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134132	At the level of abstraction on which the questioner is here, I think I agree. We have the special investigation communities as a good example, one in the East and one in the West, because it makes sense to bring together some competences there. At the same time, I believe that the questioner has a point and that is what I have just as quietly been out doing, at least for the moment, because I can also see that there are citizens who feel that the police have gone further away. They see them too rarely. And how do we bring it closer? I look forward to this work, hopefully, to something positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134208	The question is closed. There's a new question, and it's by mr. Claus Kvist Hansen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134218	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134220	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on concluding a bilateral agreement with Uganda and Rwanda to receive migrants and rejected asylum seekers from Africa, in line with the Israel model, where the recipient country gets $5,000 and each migrant or refused asylum seeker gets $3,500 and the flight ticket pays?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134238	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134239	Thank you. I understand that an agreement has just been reached which means that Uganda and Rwanda also receive African nationals on payment, regardless of which country they originally come from. The African nationals concerned will then receive the flight ticket and will also receive a cash payment. I have only an overall knowledge of the agreements, and I think it is not publicly known what is more of the content of these agreements, and I will therefore not go into the details of this today much more than I can say that I think it is at least what I hear that the scheme does not work that way without problems. But I would like to say that we must do everything we can to keep the broadcasts going, for example. are rejected asylum seekers. It is a very, very high priority for the government and, of course, also for me. Therefore, a great deal of work is already being done, and we have actually achieved good results, but I would say that we must also be very open to the new ideas that may be around. We can, of course, help foreigners who reside in third countries back to their country, but a system whereby people are forced to go to a third country where they have no ties and where there is no guarantee of their future destiny, I think we will have to think very carefully before we go to war. I would also like to say that I would actually like to look at the Israeli regime and, of course, I would also like to consider whether there is anything in the scheme that we can use in this context. However, I would like to say straight away that it seems that there are a number of challenges involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134453	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134455	Thank you. It was kind of on one side and a little on the other side. Because I do not hear the Minister rejecting anything, but one is sceptical about it because there are supposedly some challenges. I have come to look for a few challenges, and I must confess that the challenges I have been able to identify are apparent from a few interviews with forgive me, if I am mistaken. I think it was people from Eritrea who were dissatisfied with the situation in Uganda because they had difficulty finding a job, and this was thought to have been promised. Then I think that this is the kind of thing, excuse me, a little cheaply let go, you might say, if these are the only challenges of being sent back to an area. It's a rather extensive geographical area, though there is within a cultural area where you might belong a little. In this light, I think that the challenges described are of a subdued nature, when you look at what benefits it can have, that is to say, both in concrete and practical terms, that there are some people that we cannot have or want to have here in Denmark, who will then have an opportunity to come home and even with money in their pockets, but also with the signal that if your own home country stands on its hind legs there are unfortunately examples of that, it is therefore no guarantee that you will not be sent back to another place. I also think that the signal value and practical value are so massive that I would hope that the Minister was a little more enthusiastic about this proposal. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134640	I actually think I can say this so simply that I am constantly looking for new good ideas in this area. Because we cannot be served by the fact that there are people in Denmark who do not have the right to be here and who can in some way object to being sent because the country to which they would otherwise have to go refuses to accept their own citizens unless they go home voluntarily. We cannot be served with this, which is why I am constantly seeking to unlock the locks so that we can send people who do not have the right to be in Denmark out, and that is among other things. That is why I am actually spending more and more of my time on repatriation and broadcasting agreements with some of these countries. So I would just like to say so simply that I think we should then be open to the ideas that may be around and the things that are being done in other countries. That is not to say that this may be the fixed and finished solution for us, but I would like to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134744	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134745	Nor am I sure that the Israelis really think this is a fixed and finished solution, but that was the solution that was then found. We must also bear in mind that Israel may also have a history which means that we simply have to find solutions that work, and perhaps we also have a tradition, without knowing anything about it at all, that we are a little more cash in our demands and wishes, and this model has been devised, and from the point of view of Israel it certainly works. I am thinking: do we have to get all the way to Denmark, where we are in even more difficulties and problems than we are in the past before we actively, for example the Minister, go in and test this opportunity and say: If this is possible, should we not try to search it out, should we not try to find out if it is a realistic option in the long run? So I'm still calling for a bit of bubbling enthusiasm from the Minister in relation to this proposal. Because I actually think it's an exciting thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134851	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134852	As I said, I am looking into everything in this area and trying to uncover the good ideas that are around, and if there are some things that work well in some countries, then we have to learn from it. So that's basically what I can say today. But when I look at this model, I can see that there are some difficulties in it, and there are also some international rules of the game that we must, of course, abide by. But let us look at it as we look at everything else, and let us rejoice, after all, that a great many are sent out of the country every year. But that we have a challenge I think we can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134939	Here you go, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228134941	In any case, we are in complete agreement on this. So I also have to ask the Minister right here: what is the Minister going to do in concrete terms? Will the Minister specifically ask Israel how it has been done? Will you specifically go to Uganda and Rwanda and perhaps other interesting countries to see if it could be anything here? Or how exactly will this matter be dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135000	Thank you. The last reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135001	I would like to try to uncover what the Israelis are doing in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135006	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Health by Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135013	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135015	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that guidelines from the Statens Serum Institute prohibit vacuuming in a dental clinic when the Statens Serum Institute has no evidence that infection is spread through vacuuming?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135035	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135036	Thank you for the question. The State Serum Institute's guidelines are designed to prevent the spread of infection and thus also the development of infectious diseases. In places where health care is carried out, there may be other requirements for cleaning that apply than in our own private home. I believe that it would be such a very technical answer if we were to enter into the debate on the balance and consideration that lies behind the CDC's infectious guidelines for dental clinics and the recommendations that are made. It is a work in which both the Dentist Association and dental experts have been involved, and they certainly have better knowledge in this area than I have at least. However, having said that, I also think, like the questioner, that it sounds very laborious what many dental clinics are experiencing today, and that is why I have also asked the Serum Institute to look at the rules and that is what the Ministry and I are also going to do, of course, with a look at patient safety, but also with a look at what is necessary and realistic for dental clinics to comply with. It must also be clear what the rules are, because there is a big difference in the perception of it today, and the rules must also be such that they make sense in the practical everyday life. That exercise has just been set in motion and I look forward to it being possible, hopefully, to get some rules that are understandable and that make sense in dental clinics and are less bureaucratic than what we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135157	Here you go, sir. Messman.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135158	I certainly hope so, because the risk-based supervision has been adopted by a broad political majority. The aim of risk-based supervision is to ensure the safety of patients. However, it has hardly been the intention of the legislation to wash only the floor of dental clinics and not vacuum. According to Anette Lykke Petri, Head of Unit and Chief Medical Officer of the Patient Safety Agency, the vacuuming ban is due to the fact that patients must be exposed to the minimum possible risk of infection. Therefore, there is a requirement that in dental treatment, where there is a risk of bleeding and therefore bacteria in the bloodstream, there should be sterile instruments because they are in close contact with the bloodstream. One of the criticisms is how the Statens Serum Institut has measured that there is an increased risk of infection spreading through vacuuming, especially because there does not seem to be a ban on sweeping. This can cause confusion. I suppose that there will not be vacuuming while there are patients in the room, and the question is whether a vacuuming ban actually gives patients greater safety or whether it is simply bureaucracy, because even if the floor is being washed, it will have to be vacuumed or swept at some point. You can't just keep washing the floor without removing the dust, because then you just swirl up the old dust. I think that there can be no total ban on vacuuming. It is true that vacuum cleaners throw dust with small particles into the air, but then you can choose a vacuum cleaner with a Hepa filter or another special filter that ensures that dust is not swirled into the air. Or even better: you can choose a central vacuum cleaner that I have, because then you won't get any dust at all out on the other end. In any case, these solutions would be better than sweeping. Does the Minister not think that less restrictive guidelines can be laid down in relation to vacuuming in dental clinics in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135402	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135403	Yes, I think in many ways, and that is also what I tried to say in my first answer. Some of this is due to the fact that what the questioner also points out, namely the recommendations, in risk-based supervision has been turned into measuring points, and thus they have changed the character from being recommendations to being something you measure. It has created quite a great deal of confusion out there about what we really need to stick to, and we need clarity about that. That work has been set in motion, also in the light of the question put by the questioner, but also other good approaches that have been made about the matter, because it is important to focus on the fact that something that has actually been thought differently can meet reality in a different way from what was actually intended. We can see that here, and that is why we must also ensure that these rules are both understandable in terms of patient safety, but of course also make sense in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135452	Thank you. Sir. Jan Erik Messmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135453	Thank you. Then I look forward to something happening, of course, when the Minister says as she does. So thank you for that for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135501	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Health by Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135512	We are in the same area, because what is the Minister's position on the Statens Serum Institute's demand for sterile packaging of study instruments used invasively, even though the instruments are handled by unsterile gloves in an unsterile environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135527	Thank you for the question. I think this question differs from the first question in the sense that we are not talking about things that are going on in a room, but that we are talking about instruments that you and I and all other Danes get into their mouths if we go to the dentist and that can also come into contact with the blood courses. That is, of course, the reason for the rules in this area. As I have been told, most oral procedures involve a risk of bleeding and hence also contact with the underlying tissue and bloodstream. Therefore these instruments, even if they are handled by people wearing gloves, will still be sterile on the part you and I and all other Danes get in their mouths, and they will, unlike the gloves, often come into contact with the underlying tissue and bloodstream. That is why it is important that the instruments are sterile. The sterilisation of the instruments means in practice that all micro-organisms are killed. That is the difference in terms of disinfection. It is that with disinfection we can actually see that some bacteria have become resistant and have developed resistance, and others simply do not go away sufficiently with disinfection. On the other hand, they are killed in a sterilization process. That's why there's this distinction. It is precisely to prevent MRSA or multi-resistant bacteria or other types of bacteria, for example. staphylococci or other, may spread from one patient to another patient, although the instruments have been disinfected. So it is a concern for patient safety that lies behind the guidelines in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135700	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan Erik Messmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135702	Thank you. After all, the purpose of risk-based supervision is to ensure the safety of patients. It is good that we have supervision and important that the risk-based supervision, which the supervision itself describes, focuses on those areas where the risk of errors is greatest. According to the supervision, many health problems occur in the transition between the hospital, own doctor and the municipality, while testing answers and medications must follow. Monitoring therefore focuses on the areas where the risk of errors is greatest and where evidence is already available. That is why I am surprised that the supervision of the case concerning the requirement for sterile packaging of study instruments opts for a very restrictive line without establishing a quantified risk and without supervision being able to demonstrate that there is an effect of the sterile wrapping of study instruments. We do not know, therefore, whether this requirement will lead us to see that an unwanted high patient risk is reduced. In the health sector, evidence is central to evidence that actions improve patient safety in e.g. the dental care area. This means that it is important that there is a link between a defined patient risk and the fact that the actions taken have an effect on reducing the risk to patients. It may be that, through the requirement for sterile packaging of test instruments, the risk-based supervision wishes to examine whether the requirement has an effect and subsequently wishes to evaluate, but there are doubts as to whether it is within the scope of supervision's tasks. I welcome independent supervision in health care, like all Danes, but that being said, I also think it is important that supervision prioritises those tasks where there is already evidence that there are problems. This is important because otherwise supervision will be unnecessarily bureaucratic and demands will be imposed that make it costly to operate, for example. a dental clinic without improving the safety of patients. Does the Minister consider that a reasonable balance has been struck between the requirement for sterile packaging of study instruments on the one hand and the need not to impose costly measures on dentists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135914	Yes, in fact, I think it is important to focus on patient safety in this area. That is precisely why there is a demand for sterilization of the instruments that you and I and other Danes get in their mouths when we go to the dentist. There is no requirement for sterilization of e.g. those things that are used, if you're going to have an X-ray, or the mirror, that can't make a hole and thus create access to the bloodstream. It's from this point of view, and we can see that not only multi-resistant bacteria, but also staphylococci and other types are not always killed in a disinfection process. That is why sterilization is required so that no infection occurs from one patient to the other patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228135956	Yes, that is quite correct, but you have exactly the same problem in gynecological clinics. There is also the risk that it will go into the bloodstream, and that is not the case with autoclave-treated instruments, but thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140013	We thank the Minister and thank him. Jan Erik Messmann. We are breathing straight as the dialogue under Question 8 was shorter than expected and we look forward to seeing the next one asking for a moment. I see that there is no point in moving on to Question 10 right now, because it is the same questioner and the same minister. We need Bjarne Laustsen. I think we have to say that it is not possible to implement Question No 1. Question No 9 and Question No 9 10, unless it was the shadow of a member of parliament I just saw in the hallway. It wasn't. We apologize to the Minister for the fact that there are no questions for him today, and we call on him to do so. Bjarne Laustsen to ask the questions again next week. That concludes Question Time and there is no more to be done in this sitting. We have come to question 9, and I see that the Social Democrat Member of the Folketing, Mr. Bjarne Laustsen is ready to read his question to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140235	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140237	I apologize to the High Thing. The question is: when will the Minister honour his promise to raise the bridge over Elling Å on Highway 40, so that there will be no flooding in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140251	Thank you for the question. As I have replied to the questioner in a letter from October last year, the Vejdirektoratet has stated that in the spring of 2017 Frederikshavn Municipality has completed the establishment of dikes along Elling Å, and the Vejdirektoratet has mounted iron plates on the bridge construction so that the water in Elling Å cannot run behind the dikes. Frederikshavn Municipality, Nordjyske Railroads and Vejdirektoratet agree that the dykes and iron plates on the bridge construction will be able to cope with a climate event similar to the one in autumn 2014 that caused flooding in a larger area of Elling city. There does not therefore appear to be an acute problem. I have therefore not promised, as the questioner says, that the bridge should be lifted, but I have asked the Road Directorate to continue to pay attention to the challenges of Elling Å, as it is not acceptable that there should be repeated flooding of Elling. The Vejdirektoratet and Frederikshavn Municipality are therefore constantly examining whether there are further measures that should be continued.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140401	Thank you for your answer. Now I have had the opportunity to ask, as the Minister also explains, both the current minister and the former minister, and there was no doubt in the time of the former minister that there was a need to do something. I fully acknowledge that the current minister himself has been visiting and inspecting the situation, so I am a little surprised that it has come to the conclusion that there is no need. For now we are stepping up and we have been curbed so that the areas will not be flooded again. But we can get a situation like that in 2014, where the water simply couldn't get away because it couldn't get under the hole that's under the road, and that's why there was a spraining far back in the system. I understand that the Road Directorate has said in the past that there was a need to raise the road. I think it was said that that was what you wanted to do, but otherwise you could lower the water level in the stream on that piece. So there are different options. Now I understand, if I understand correctly, that there is no need to do anything at all because the municipality of Frederikshavn has solved the problem itself. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140510	I think, sir. Bjarne Laustsen has misunderstood something. The measures taken now are likely to prevent a flood like the one we saw in the autumn of 2014. If we are to take further action, it is because we fear something even worse than what we saw in autumn 2014. What we saw in autumn 2014 has been resolved with the measures taken today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140538	This surprises me a great deal, because it has been promised to come up and look at it. What the Minister has now concluded, he is doing on the basis of a given situation. The starting point was that you had to do something, that the municipality had to do something and make some climate protection or a dam, or whatever you call it, and then the state had to solve its part in relation to the road. Where does it come from all of a sudden now that there is no need to do anything at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140613	Well, as I said, a lot has been done and what has been done has been done so that a situation such as the one that was seen in autumn 2014 will not be repeated. I've been up to visit the place, among other things. because the municipality of Frederikshavn wanted to point out that if there was an even greater flood than the one in 2014, then the measures already being prepared were not enough. So is the question: Do we believe that there is a real risk that there will be a worse flood than it will in autumn 2014? If you have a very strong belief that this will happen, then you should take steps to do more. But as I understand the conversation between the municipality of Frederikshavn and the Road Directorate, you have little fear that there will be worse floods than the one you saw in 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140703	But I can also tell the Minister that it was really bad and that the hole is not dimensioned at all to take all that water. So the question is whether the dams can hold as much as the Minister now suggests, for the water was far above the road; it was far above the whole of highway 40, and it was completely impossible to get through that area. That is why I find it strange that the municipality solves its part, while the state then runs away from its responsibility to ensure that there is a proper passage under Highway 40 at Elling Å.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140742	After all, we have solved the challenge, so that if there is a similar spraining of water as there was in autumn 2014, then the things that have been done now will be able to prevent it from leading to floods in Elling. If you think that within a number of years we will experience something even worse than the one-off event that we experienced there in 2014, then further measures should be looked at. But I don't think there's such a huge fear of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140817	Thank you to the Minister and Mr. Bjarne Laustsen for questions and answers. Then we can move on to Question 10, which is also addressed to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing and is also asked by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140828	Thank you so much. The question is: when will the Minister take the initiative to extend the 40 motorway from Ålbæk to Skagen so that the road over Hulsig Hede will be extended to a so-called two plus one road?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228140841	Thank you for the question. I was also here last week answering questions from the same question about road projects in North Jutland, and I think it is very positive that the Social Democrats are concerned about new road projects. Then all we have to do is get the Social Democratic Party to take an interest in finding the necessary funding. That is why I would again urge the author and his party not only to talk about the many wishes but also to report on the task of finding the means needed to realise the wishes. In relation to the specific project, as the questioner knows, there is no basis for decision in the form of a feasibility study or an EIA study. The municipality of Frederikshavn has estimated that the expansion can be done for between 60 and 80 million. kr. On the other hand, the Road Directorate estimates the cost of being significantly higher. Based on a dialogue with Frederikshavn Municipality, the Vejdirektoratet initiated an updated screening of the project in autumn 2017. The screening is not yet complete, but is expected to be completed during spring 2018. The screening could then serve as a basis for political reflection on whether to draw up a proper basis for decision-making in the form of a feasibility study in which the plant economy and the economy will be assessed more thoroughly. I and the government will also consider this, bearing in mind, however, that there are already a great many ready-made decisions for good projects that lack funding. Here I will come back to what I started by saying: a feasibility study costs money. Those parties who think that a study should be given priority must also be prepared to find the money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141026	Thank you for your answer. I am glad that the Minister thinks these are important matters and also that there is a presence in North Jutland and in Vendsyssel in particular. That is why I can tell the Minister with an open mind that this is a matter for which the Social Democrats are not responsible at all. Because it is the case that it wasn't the social democracy that laid down the counties, and the old county had a project where you wanted to finish that road, because the other part of the road is so it was just a question of completing what you were doing. But when the counties were decommissioned, this project was also scrapped, and that's why we've been working on it ever since to figure out how this could be done. Since you thought there was a need for it then, and it was a wish, it is strange, just because you lay down the counties, that the need for that road no longer exists. I am glad that the Minister has been looking into it. I am also pleased with the commitments that are being made about this. But here is a matter in which the Skagmen have been promised this road, and that is why I hope that the Minister, when he can see that it is needed, will also work for it to be established, as it was promised many years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141142	There are many people throughout the country who feel that there are politicians who have promised them a way, and that must be because there are a number of politicians who promise more than they can keep. It doesn't include me. But there must be other politicians who promise a great deal that they do not have the means to keep. When we sit in the green circle, for example, where Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's party is also involved, and must decide which road projects should be funded, what preliminary studies should be carried out • funds should also be used for the EIA studies to be carried out, and funds should also be used for this, so the Social Democratic Party has a representative there, and that is the Transport Rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party. The first, sir. Bjarne Laustsen has to do, is go to his own transport rapporteur and say: every time there is money available, priority must be given to this route, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen is so concerned about all sorts of other routes. We have given priority to other sections in the past. We have decided to conduct EIA studies for a new Mid Jutland motorway, for an extension of the Hillerød motorway. The Social Democrats have taken part in this. There has not been a desire to carry out a feasibility study on this particular stretch of road.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141257	I am quite sure that the Transport Rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party would also like to promote this matter, for he has been with you in all modesty to see it as a sea of other members of parliament who, too, can read in Nordjyske Stiftstidende and look at TV2 Nord etc., have spoken out very positively. This is a matter that not only individual politicians have promised, it is the whole county of North Jutland that promised to complete that project. But they can't do about the fact that there was a bourgeois majority who wanted to cut down the counties. It has been estimated that it would not cost a very high amount of money to do this, it is at least the reports that have been made, but now the Minister says it is going to be significantly higher. Can the Minister not put some words on what is substantially higher and why it is that the calculations made by the Minister are higher than what is estimated locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141348	I can explain why local estimates of how expensive it is are lower than what is probably the realistic figure. This is because local people have a very great desire to implement it, and that is why the project, including the project's economy, is very much welcomed, perhaps more positively than the reality suggests. But in order to give a definitive answer as to how much it costs, it is necessary to carry out the preliminary studies, and that can then be started.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141419	Thank you, but now I think that a contractor who has to carry out such a project may not care whether you like a project or not, because it is a task that comes in handy and then it has to be carried out. The price usually isn't so crucial, i.e. if it's going to be a little more expensive. What is interesting is whether the Minister has a knowledge that this costs a lot more than what you estimate, because the fact is that you already own some of the area that needs to be used to make the road on, and therefore it is interesting that the Minister is now saying that it will be considerably more expensive without documenting how much more expensive it is. For it is clear that, in the decision-making process too, it is important to know whether we are talking about 60-70 million. kr., or whether we're talking about double it. Then the Minister couldn't get a little closer to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141512	What I can say is that the municipality of Frederikshavn has estimated it to cost between 60 and 80 million. kr., while the Vejdirektoratet has calculated the cost of a plant for three different solutions at 115 million respectively. DKK 150 million kr. EUR 230 million and EUR 230 million; kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141534	Thank you. Thank you both to the Minister and to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. When I went to school, it was so that if you were late for class, you could risk a detention, as it was called, and there you would have to write 100 times in your essay: I won't be late next time. I'm not sure it works in the Folketing, but thank you for today's work. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180228141557	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, March 1, 2018, p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
