ParlaMint-DK_20180111100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Public Innovation (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 126 (Proposal for a law on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public bodies). Marie Krarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 57 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of praying rooms in public educational establishments). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 58 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the use of distinctive religious symbols for pupils and teachers in primary and lower secondary schools). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180111100057	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111100119	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 19 by Benny Engelbrecht (S), Mikkel Dencker (DF), Carl Holst (V), Carsten Bach (LA), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Orla Østerby (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 19 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 18 of Rune Lund (EL) and V 20 of Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111100249	There's a first treatment going on in a minute, so we're gonna have to hear the sound of our ears. I'm gonna have to calm down in the hall while you go out. The President shushs the House The debate has been opened, and it is first the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111100404	Thank you to the SF for tabling the motion for a resolution on tobacco sales and standardised cigarette packages. I understand that, and I also recognise the intention behind the proposal, and we also agree on the objective, namely that children and young people should not smoke, and that is also what the government, precisely with our ambitious goal of getting Denmark's first smoke-free generation by 2030, is an ambition that no children and young people should smoke in Denmark by 2030 • a goal that is shared by the Danish Cancer Society, the Heart Association and many others working towards. This is very much an indication that we do not want children and young people in Denmark to smoke and that we do not want the next generation to take over the bad habits that we can see the parent generation has had and in some areas continue to have. It is the government's starting point that prevention and health promotion are a common task for society and that we all have a responsibility to promote public health. This is particularly true when it comes to our children and young people. Against this background, of course, it is a problem when children and young people under the age of 18 are able, contrary to the law, to obtain access to cigarettes relatively easily, and here there are just some actors who do not adequately discharge their responsibilities; they simply do not comply with the law today, but they must obviously do so. So what do we do about it? One can say that this is what the motion for a resolution then tackles. Could it be a solution to sell only cigarettes from a single box in a supermarket, so there was only one place to focus on checking ID, as is now proposed to legislate? Yeah, sure it could. This could be an idea that the retail trade could, as it were, already implement in their work today if that is what they wanted. It is also a way, if they want it from their side, in which they could play a part in fulfilling the responsibilities they have and the law they have to observe. After all, there is nothing to prevent a supermarket from adapting in this way today as a means of shouldering their responsibilities. Then the question is whether we should legislate on it. No, I do not think we should do that, even if I understand the frustration that compliance with the rules is not progressing in getting young people to stop smoking at all. We share the concerns of the government. However, I also think that we should stick to the fact that the law that has been made must be respected, and the players in this area, the retail trade, must, of course, comply with the law and also find out how they will comply with the law, whether it is about the use of separate paylines, whether it is about placing tobacco under the box, whether it is about having special arrangements within the store with everything from mystery shoppers to other things, it is, in fact, something that the individual shopkeepers should ultimately decide, i.e. how they can best shoulder the responsibility they have, namely to comply with the law that we have in Denmark today, which says that it is illegal to sell tobacco to children and young people under 18 years of age. As part of the cancer plan IV, on behalf of the government, I have set up a partnership with the retail trade to make their responsibilities visible and also to make their responsibilities more visible in this area. On the partnership website you can read that among other things. several cashier systems have been upgraded, so every time a product is scanned, which you can only sell to customers over a certain age, a message automatically comes up which allows the cashier to say that she or he should check the ID. I think this is an example of how there are shops that also look at the opportunities you have to implement actions in the individual store. There are also other places in the retail trade where they have put extra focus on training employees, launched internal and external campaigns and also even systematically introduced mystery shopper schemes. My point is that I think it is quite fine that you do it, and I also think you have an obligation like retail to do something so that you comply with the law. But in the end, it is about creating a change in culture, and it is also about creating local ownership and a commitment. This is what the partnership is all about, and it has been important for the government to get this partnership with the retail trade to also highlight the challenges of children and young people who smoke and illegally buy tobacco. I look forward to taking stock of the partnership, where both good experiences need to be shared and also how we can ensure even better compliance in the future. The second part of the motion for a resolution we are debating today concerns standardised packages, i.e. cigarette packets, where the small part at the bottom of the product's name today must in future be made in a standardised design on which the manufacturer must not make his own mark. As I have also said in a consultation, I have nothing in principle against a standardised package, but I also have to say that we have just changed the appearance of the packages in May of last year, in 2017, which means that today, with the changes to the packages that have happened, we have far greater warnings on the packages. We have a reference to the Stopline on all the packages, so it is now only one third of the packages that are left to the producers. According to the Danish Health Authority, this has already had an effect on the search for the Stopline, which is now being further advertised, and I think it is important to wait for the initiatives that have been taken and the new layout on the packages and to evaluate on it before taking new and other initiatives in the field. We have also launched a campaign aimed at influencing the culture of young people... an eye-to-eye campaign with young people. First of all, it is a cultural struggle to stop young people smoking and to make them aware of the health consequences that smoking and smoking can have. After all, we already have regulation of tobacco in Denmark as well as in the European Union today. The possibility to market tobacco products is regulated and limited by the EU Tobacco Directive and Danish legislation. We have a law banning tobacco advertising which bans virtually all forms of tobacco advertising. We have a law on tobacco products, etc. which includes, among other things: requirements for large health warnings on tobacco products. So it is not the case that we do not have legislation on tobacco, and it is not the case that we have not imposed restrictions, including requirements for new layouts as recently as May last year. However, when we still see young people smoking, it is all about so much more and more, and that is why it is also important to recognise that this is more about a change in culture than the fact that it is only about banning bans that we believe that we can achieve it. It is about local initiatives both in the municipalities, in the schools, where school leaders and where boards should take responsibility, and in the parents as well as in the young people themselves. It may be good to assess the design of the packages when there has been a full phasing-in of the new layout and we also have more experience from other countries we can draw on. At present, the only experience that is on the standardised packages, where a longer move has been made, from Australia is an island far away from nearest neighbors where border trade is not a question that fills. That is why I think that when you take this debate, you should, of course, follow what happens in other countries, but you should also bear in mind that experience from Australia cannot be transferred one to one to Danish relations. All in all, as I said, I have sympathy for the intention of the proposal, but I do not think this is the right way to go. I believe that specific measures for certain industries should always be justified, and that is where we already have a strict regulation on the sale of tobacco. The proposals contained in the motion for a resolution, in particular those relating to the organisation of the retail trade, there is nothing legal to prevent them from being able to use today. So I think that we should look at why legislation will require something that the retail trade, as it were, cannot support today's resolution, but we want very clearly, with the initiatives we have taken and are going to take in this area, to support the ambitious objective that we have of a smoke-free generation in 2030 in Denmark, where no children and young people are smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101249	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101251	Thank you. I think that the Minister may also agree that it is a fact that the trend towards achieving a smoke-free generation by 2030 has stagnated and that there is even an incipient tendency for an increasing number of young people to start smoking. I guess that really calls for initiatives. I recognise that there may be other initiatives than this one, for example. a partnership agreement, as the Minister himself points out, but if this time too the partnership agreement will not make the retail trade comply with the age limit, will the Minister reconsider imposing specific restrictions on the retail trade in respect of compliance with the age limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101337	The retail trade is prohibited from selling tobacco to children and young people under the age of 18 in Denmark. That law must be observed. How to organize it out in the individual store if it is with a separate box line, whether it is placing the tobacco under the counter, or whether it is other initiatives • is one of the things that I think the retail trade itself should assess. But, of course, they must be kept up to comply with the law. When something is banned in Denmark, it is forbidden, and then you have to comply with the legislation. This is true in this area as well as in other areas. The partnership has been concluded this autumn. I think it is really positive that we have now established a partnership with the retail trade as a new initiative as a result of the cancer plan IV, where we also find there is a mutual commitment to support that we can achieve the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030. Then we have this campaign aimed at young people, for whom we have jointly set aside money and which is a multi-annual campaign. I think it is extremely important that, when we speak smoke and young people, we also recognise the studies that have been carried out which show that the young people do not listen to the parents with their admonished fingers and the indications of one thing and the other. That is why it is important that we have a campaign that is also at eye level with young people if we are to ensure that there are fewer young people starting to smoke, or more who hopefully stop smoking if they have started smoking and stay completely away from cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101456	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101457	Unfortunately, this is not the first time that it happens over and over again that the media proves that the retail trade does not comply with these rules. That is, of course, why the proposal has been put forward: can we impose restrictions on the retail trade which then make them do so? In fact, however, I do not think the Minister is answering whether it would be a solution if the partnership agreement were not respected. I also think that the Minister has yet to answer the question whether we recognise that the effort has stagnated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101528	If we look at the curves, we can see that they have been decreasing over a number of years from a very high level at a time when smoking was also taking place in the Parliamentary Chamber. And legislative initiatives have been taken, even while my party was in government last time and had the post of Minister for Health. So a large number of initiatives have been taken which have meant that we have had a falling curve. Now we have had stagnation, and that is a challenge. And we can also see in relation to children and young people that we have a challenge. I and the government fully acknowledge that. This is both why we have set the goal of having a smoke-free generation by 2030, which is why we have taken concrete initiatives both with the partnership and with the campaign, and why we are, of course, constantly monitoring whether there may be a need for further action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101607	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101611	I think the Minister has put on the no-hat today. Well, it's just about everything you don't want to do, but there's very little about what you're actually gonna do. There is, of course, a very clear problem here when we know that so many young people are starting to smoke, and we know that so many people die and suffer from smoking. We now have a stagnation, and then it does not help much that we have just set up a goal. There is a need for concrete action in order to actually achieve that objective. I therefore miss the fact that the government and the minister are bringing something concrete that can work. The former V government had something concrete in the bag, for example. The aim was to introduce smoke-free school time into vocational training. That has now been dropped. And now all you have left is partnership agreements with some companies that have clearly broken the law, as the Minister himself says. What you then respond to is partnership agreements. I mean, where's the government's policy in this area? What are we going to do to reverse this trend we have now? What are we going to do to ensure that fewer people start smoking and fewer people keep smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101714	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101716	I certainly have not put on the no-hat, and if the rapporteur listened to my speech, the rapporteur could hear that I mentioned several of the initiatives that we have taken, both with the partnership and also with the campaign in which we have jointly set aside money, but which we have spent a great deal of gunpowder and resources to unfold in a way that hopefully we will also reach the young people whom we have not been able to reach. Well, we can also see that in the numbers of the curve. I believe that the objective is important. Having an ambitious target for a smoke-free generation by 2030 is not, for me, just a question of setting an objective. It's binding. And that also means, of course, that you have to follow it on a regular basis. Nor do I agree with the rapporteur that the partnership has no effect. I mean, it has an effect. I also think it is important to have a partnership with the players. Nor do I agree with the rapporteur that the absence of central legislation means that initiatives should not be taken to minimise smoke in the individual institutions. But the difference is whether you want to ban things from in here or whether you want to demand a local commitment and a local commitment, so that, as a management and as a board of directors of a school, you have an active smoking policy at school and ensure that you address the problems that exist. This is true whether it is a vocational school or elsewhere. This is also the discussion that we can now see anchored, for example. in municipalities, in relation to whether you can smoke in playgrounds and other things. And I think it is essential that we have that discussion, but I also think it is essential that we take some of these discussions locally and take responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101837	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101839	How patient is the Minister in relation to whether the partnership works? The minister says she thinks it's working. We don't know yet. If Politiken is now carrying out a new study in six months' time and it turns out that it is as easy for young people under 18 to buy cigarettes as it has been so far, how patient is the Minister with the retail trade? That is my one question. My second question is that the Minister says that we should also have the discussion locally. But that is not what the Minister is proposing. The Minister is suggesting that something should only happen locally, that the government should do nothing in relation to, for example: to ensure a smoke-free school time for vocational education and training pupils. There the government seems to think that it is only for primary and secondary school pupils that there should be legislation; there should not be legislation in relation to vocational training. Why should there be that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101928	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111101930	If Enhedslisten had wanted legislation in this area, it could have been implemented together with the SR government when it had been opened up to the law. As a government, we have said that we do not want children and young people to smoke. We want a smoke-free generation by 2030, we want local responsibility to be taken. This also means, of course, that the individual vocational school as a board of directors and as a management must deal with this. It is not the same as not doing anything as a government. We do so very much, both with the partnership, with campaigns and with a number of other initiatives. We are following the area very closely, and with regard to the question of patience, we are taking stock of the partnership this spring, precisely to ensure that something is done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102005	Thank you. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102009	Thank you very much, President. The Minister mentions several times the Cancer Plan IV and the Government's rhetoric, the Government's expressed wishes. I am going to deal with a very specific matter, and so I would like to ask the Minister: can the Minister confirm that one of the first things the Minister did when she moved into the ministerial offices was to abandon the plan that the former Left Health Minister, Sophie Løhde, had indicated that it was going to work towards, that is to say that it would be politically determined to introduce smoke-free school time for the primary schools and that the rules on smoking would be harmonised for secondary schools and vocational schools? Will the Minister confirm that this was one of the first things the Minister dropped as Minister for Health?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102103	Now, of course, we have had several discussions on this in the past, and I can fully confirm that the VKLA government has a different policy in this area from that of the pure V government in relation to whether bans in relation to vocational schools are the right way to proceed. That doesn't change the objective. It changes the means of achieving whether to have national legislation banning smoke in vocational schools or whether to oblige vocational schools to take local initiatives to ensure that young people in vocational schools are also less exposed to smoke and also to a lesser extent to light the first cigarette. So there is no difference in the objective, but there is a difference in the means of achieving it. And that is an expression of the fact that when you are three parties in a government, everyone must be able to see themselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102147	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102149	Thank you for that, that was a clear answer. And I hope that everyone understands that this is a clear, clear weakening that has occurred, of the fulfilment of and the possibility of achieving the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030. It was the Left Government that said that one of the most effective means one can have is to focus on children and young people. It was abandoned, and I must interpret the Minister's expression in such a way that this is what the Minister is fighting for, even though the Minister is trying to cover himself up for two other parties in the government. We have a government that is now embarking on voluntary agreements, partnerships with the retail trade. My next question to the Minister must be: Is it the impression given by the Minister that the retail trade until 2018 has fulfilled its responsibilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102239	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102241	We made a partnership agreement with the retail trade this autumn. We will be taking stock here in spring 2018, and I look forward to it. I see that the retail trade is very concerned about ensuring that the law that exists, namely that tobacco is not to be sold to children and young people, will be complied with to a much greater extent and that a number of initiatives have therefore been taken by the retail trade. I look forward to taking stock, because I think it is important that a partnership should also see a commitment on the part of the retail trade in this area. In relation to vocational schools, I would just like to say that I simply do not think that interpretation is correct. This isn't about the business school students being allowed to smoke. It is about how to ensure a smoke-free generation, and there is a ban not the only answer, although that is what Social Democracy believes is the only answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102329	Thank you, Minister. No, there is one more comment. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102336	Thank you. With regard to the questions that have just been asked and the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030, I would like to know whether the Minister recognises this problem. And I'm standing here with figures from the National Health Service that show that 86%. of those who smoke feel dependent on nicotine and that therefore it may be that sometimes they need to be helped to quit smoking. Seventy-two percent. of those who smoke would actually, if they could live their lives over, not smoke. So I think this discussion is also about how we can help people to get rid of something that has simply taken control of them. Is this something that the Minister recognises that we simply have to do something about?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102424	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102425	Well, I do see that everyone recognizes that tobacco is addictive. That is also why we have taken a number of initiatives to ensure that people who want to stop smoking can be helped to do so. We have taken specific initiatives aimed at some of the vulnerable groups, in that it can sometimes be costly to quit smoking. We have a wide range of smoking cessation courses, which are offered everywhere, from in the workplace to in the municipalities, a task that is also undertaken in order to ensure that there are offers available. The fact that the telephone number of the Stopline and other items now on the cigarette packets have come up in such a large size is, of course, also a matter of making much more visible to those who have a desire to stop, to get help and to turn to them. And that is certainly one of the things we need to ensure. We must ensure that people who want to stop smoking receive both the help and the guidance they need. That doesn't change the fact that the motivation has to be there. And the fact that there are so many people who say that if they could do it again, they wouldn't start smoking, is for me just a good argument for "especially in relation to some children and young people" that you shouldn't start with the first cigarette.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102528	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102529	Then I'd like to hear something, because most of the people who start smoking today are teenagers. Does the Minister recognise that children and young people are actually those such as: The price affects the most, in other words, according to whether they start smoking? Because they say it means a lot to them. Then we have some of these tools, including... the inscription that is on the packages today, but if you look at the price and the tax, it is one of the most helpful things for children and young people. I would like to ask: is it not important to prevent, because cancer plan IV hardly mentions prevention? Then it is mentioned with the vocational schools, but it has then been removed. I just hope the Minister recognises that we must do something about children and young people and that we must do something more than what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102621	We have a focus as a government on ensuring that children and young people do not start smoking. That is why we have an ambitious target for a smoke-free generation by 2030, so that no children and young people smoke by 2030. This is precisely about the fact that we have a special focus on children and young people. When you are an adult and you have your own freedom to do what you want, it is a different discussion than when it comes to children and young people. Therefore, the government's policy focuses precisely on avoiding smoke in relation to children and young people. After all, the targeted campaign, which is now multiannual, to which we have jointly allocated money, is that we have been too poor to communicate in a language that young people understood, and also to understand what motivates young people to start smoking. And there we have to do a lot more. That is also what we are doing, both with the partnership and with the campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102659	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111102708	Thank you. It is absolutely clear in the social democratic DNA what we are fighting for. We are fighting for equal opportunities, for a good start to life, for education and for disease to be avoided. The fact that you get a disease reduces your opportunities, it makes your life unfree, it reduces your quality of life, and therefore it is so crucial that we also politically, including here from Christiansborg, help to set a framework to avoid disease development, that is to say reduce disease in Denmark. That is why we need to think about prevention. In Denmark we have many problems, but in terms of health there is a factor that surpasses all other factors seriously. It is a seriousness that requires death, it is a seriousness that requires disability and illness. It's tobacco. We have a particular challenge because more and more of our children and young people are actually starting to smoke. We in the Social Democratic Party consider this to be a huge problem. Action must be taken and, instead of taking action, we now have a government that seems to be absolutely deceptive in this area, as has just been illustrated by the Minister for Health. We know that 40 children and young people start smoking every day, even though it is forbidden to sell tobacco to them. And we know that up to 90%. of the smokers begin before they reach the age of 18. We also know that more than 44 000 minors in Denmark will die of smoking if we do nothing. This corresponds to 1 in 10 pupils in a primary school class, and if the average is 20 pupils in each class, 2 in each class will die from a disease caused by their smoking. Politically, of course, we need to focus on this problem in many different places. We need to look at accessibility, visibility, control and sanctions. Nevertheless, we have a government which, on the basis of a social democratic assessment, does nothing in this area. Voluntary partnerships can be swinged up that far. Yeah, it's almost walking backwards. This is certainly going backwards in relation to what the Left Government wanted in this area. We had a health minister named Sophie Løhde, who presented a Cancer Plan IV in August 2016. It provided for the introduction of smoke-free school hours in our primary schools and the harmonisation of smoking rules in high schools and vocational schools. Both were dropped by the current Minister for Health as one of the first when she took up her duties in the Ministry of Health. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is a completely incomprehensible act, while at the same time seeing that more and more children and young people are starting to smoke. We thank the authors of the motion for a resolution here today. Every opportunity is the right opportunity to discuss this biggest and most urgent health problem of all. The motion for a resolution here has two elements. There are neutral cigarette packs, standardised cigarette packs, and a special box line. Social democracy has long advocated the introduction of neutral cigarette packages. In answer to me, the Danish Health Service has estimated that it can cause about 26,000 to stop smoking. And what is the real argument for not doing so? Yeah, we've been trying to confront the Minister of Health with that, too. What is it that lies in the neutral cigarette packets? But it is of course that the remaining part of the package, which is not filled with mandatory text and images, is an advertising column, is a delicious package that signals about the product, and helps to attract especially young people who are susceptible to that kind of advertising. So it's right to do it. Seven countries have introduced neutral packages, including some of our neighbouring countries. That's the way to go. We think so. The reason why we in the Social Democratic Party cannot fully support the resolution here is the final element of the special cash lines. There are things here that we think are a little unclear, i.e. how it should be administered. However, we would really like to take part in the discussion with the SF and all the other parties here, because we agree that something needs to be done. Visibility and accessibility must be combated in relation to tobacco, and we will also have the opportunity to do so, because I am very pleased that all the red parties have agreed to call a question debate here in Parliament on the overall problem of tobacco, and we will have it within a very long time. The Social Democratic Party fully follows the intention of the bill, but on the basis of what I have said, we cannot support the bill as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103239	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen. No, she's gonna push her way out again, and then there's no short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103255	Thank you. We all know the situation downstairs from the supermarket that you're behind a poorly prepared customer who's got to buy cigarettes and asks if they have this brand or this brand, and the equally confused cashier turns around looking for these different cigarette brands that are being asked about. It can take a little bit of patience, at least with someone like me. This situation will now be seasoned with neutral cigarette packs. Now you can no longer even look for a recognizable design; now the cashier must read all the individual cigarette packages to see if they now have Kings or Pall Mall, or what they are all called. It could be a long afternoon down in the Brugsen in Dark. When we then consider that the effect of these neutral cigarette packets, according to the Australians' own assessment, is rather insignificant, their own ministry's assessment shows that it is well 0.5 per cent that has stopped because of it, and it is not exactly an overwhelming figure I think we are introducing a lot of trouble with it. Then, of course, and this is the second half of the proposal, you can choose to line up with a box other than the cigar box, but that is where the reality hits the proposal. Because in practice there will usually be one cash line open in most supermarkets, and there is the employee who is now sitting, even if you are suggesting that the business has the opportunity to put an experienced shop assistant with more backbone to sit at the checkout and ask for ID. There is no requirement in the proposal for this. It's just a call. In addition, nothing can be said to prevent shops from doing so today, if that is what they want. It's not moving anything. So, no, I do not see that the proposal creates much more than trouble, and I do not think that is a good starting point for adopting a resolution. On the other hand, if you have an ambition for fewer people to smoke, it might be that you should consider what kind of debate you have. There is a virtually hysterical debate in Denmark about smoking, and it has, of course, done that quite counterproductively there are more young people who are now smoking than there were in the past. More smokers have arrived. Why is that? Yes, it has now become a freedom struggle. Because the manner of smoking has become demonic, it has now become a freedom struggle; you simply fight for the right to smoke. Therefore, you start by smoking to make an example to the state that it should not interfere with: I want to smoke. If instead we chose to slow down this debate a little, it could be that we could get better results. One could, for example: start talking about smoking not just being one thing, but being many things, and that tobacco products are many different things and place themselves very differently on the scale of how harmful they can be. If we dared to talk and classify these products and say that it might be time to take a step down the scale and take a slightly healthier, yet still unhealthy choice and switch to the e-cigarette or these low-temperature cigars, which means that there are not as many harmful substances in the lungs, it might actually be that you would do something for the health of the smokers in this country. This is a bit like talking to an overweight person, rather than starting by saying that he or she will have to exercise half an hour from tomorrow every day forever, and that he or she will have to do it in race, saying that if he or she goes for a walk just once a week, he or she is on the right path. That is the talk we must have about smoking too, if we want to do something good for the state of health in this country, so take it at a realistic level where people can keep up, instead of it being all or nothing rhetoric. I think there's something I could do. I think this proposal will mean nothing but trouble, and that is why we will not support it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103800	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103804	Thank you. The rapporteur says: If I don't want to give examples of where that argument could also be used and just ask DF: Does DF think that we have a common goal for a smoke-free generation by 2030, and does DF also think that we should launch initiatives to ensure that we can achieve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103841	We want to help those people who do not want to smoke anymore, and we know that there are a lot of smokers who want to get out of their tobacco consumption. We would like to help with that. But we're not gonna lead this crusade against smoking. It is a pleasure product, and we think there should also be room for that in a country like Denmark, just as there should be room for those who can find out to drink a glass of red wine for the food, to do so. But that is why we can still help those who have serious alcohol abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103914	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103916	In the SF we also recognise that there may be a social battle side. But the way to achieve the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030 is first and foremost to avoid new smokers. It's just about the kids. If they now prove time and time again in the retail trade that they cannot enforce the law that you have to be 18 years old in order to buy cigarettes, could it not be a method to say that now we are referring it to some individual paylines? It will then be easier to check whether the legislation is actually being complied with. Or does DF have other suggestions on how to force the retail trade to comply with the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111103957	We fully agree that the legislation must be complied with. After all, we have also come up with a proposal that we should be able to make some machines from which tobacco sales should be made, and that we should then do some automatic ID checks in connection with tobacco sales. We are completely open to that. Because we agree that the legislation must be complied with; that is a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104019	Thank you. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104023	Thank you very much. The rapporteur speaks of the pace of development of a policy of prevention and structural measures in the field of tobacco. After many years here in the Danish Parliament and many years in which I have followed the position of the Danish People's Party here, I must say that my impression is almost that the Danish People's Party has no speed at all here. So, here the Danish People's Party stands quite still, and one might almost be tempted to say that the Danish People's Party is the ones who are backing up in this area. I have a specific question: does the rapporteur think that too many children and young people smoke in Denmark? That is one question. And if the rapporteur's classification strategy should now be put on a scale from 1 to 10, where 10 is the worst, where are the cigarettes in the Danish People's Party's classification system?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104114	I do not think it is healthy for any children and young people to smoke, so yes, there are too many young people who smoke. They shouldn't do that. But that people choose, make a decision to do something bad for them, they can do it. This is the ideal of freedom that we have, at least in the Danish People's Party. You can also eat whipped cream cookies, even if it is not good for you. You can also smoke a cigarette, even if it is not good for you. But that's why you wish they didn't. Compared to how fucking cigarettes are, I'd say I don't know. I don't think I can just stand here on a scale of one to ten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104157	Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104158	Thank you. I welcome the rapporteur's statement that too many children and young people smoke. Then we have a starting point to work with in relation to the Danish People's Party, and I am pleased about that. I would like to ask the rapporteur: we can see that the tobacco industry is working both with beaks and claws against the introduction of neutral cigarette packages. Can the rapporteur perhaps give me a reason why industry is working so strongly against losing the advertising opportunity they have on the packages? Is it because it is essential to the tobacco industry? That is one question. The second question is that the rapporteur says that there are also some ideals of freedom in which one can choose oneself: is there any sense in the Danish People's Party in making rules for children and young people under the age of 18 in this area, or is it also true that children and young people should have their ideals of freedom to choose for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104254	I would very much recommend that you start with your question. Then you can always make the comments afterwards, if there is time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104303	I certainly believe that it has a value that you can advertise with your name on a cigarette pack. I assume that's why the tobacco industry is fighting for this. In relation to regulating young people, I would say that there is also a ban on young people buying alcohol. I should like to admit that during my youth I also drank alcohol and perhaps even before I was allowed to buy it. I do not feel that I am so blinded by a derailed relationship with it. That is why I have such a rather pragmatic approach to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104346	Thank you. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104350	Thank you for that, and now it was right. I have a very, very brief question, because I did not quite understand the answer to it earlier. Do you support the Danish People's Party and, like most parties here in the Danish Parliament, do you also have the ambition of a smoke-free generation 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104413	I think it is very important to set realistic targets if we are to set targets. And I do not see that it is realistic that we should have a totally smoke-free generation unless we go in and talk about a ban, and we do not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104425	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104428	I am told that the rapporteur says that he also thinks that too many young people smoke. Does the Danish People's Party have just one suggestion, in addition to letting people do what they want and giving them the freedom, to how we can get fewer young people to smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104457	Thank you. In other words, as I have said, we have talked about tobacco products and talked about such a modulation of it, and there we would like to think that perhaps there were some opportunities for some young people to be pushed in the direction of not starting with those unfiltered, all-green tobacco products. It can be said that in a country such as Sweden they benefit well from the fact that they, for example, do. has access to snuff, making sure that it does not affect the lungs as much as tobacco smoking does. Fortunately, we have a glorious EU system that has ensured that we cannot have it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104536	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111104544	It is no secret that we in the Left are very concerned about preventing and reducing the number of smokers in Denmark, especially the number of young smokers, and I will return to young people a little later in my speech. Because smoking isn't just smoking. This is among other things. reduced fertility in women, the risk of impaired sperm quality in male embryos, it is bad for dental health, just as smoking is the major killer. Lung cancer, like other cancers, is a vicious disease. A few years ago, for the first time ever, we saw women overtaking men in the number of cases of lung cancer, and lung cancer is now the cancer that causes the most deaths in women. I have no doubt about the direction in which the arrow points if we are to dive into the causes of the increases. Smoking is and remains the great sinner. After all, we women are in many ways zealous about our appearance and our health, we spend thousands of kroner on breast lift, wrinkle creams and fitness subscriptions, but with smoking stops it looks quite different. Women go on as if almost nothing had happened, while men seem to have a greater tendency to put down cigarettes. Imagine if you could turn the smoking women inside out and show them that black in this context is not the new black but rather unchecked. I am aware that smoking has a social side and that it is not easy to stop smoking. The vast majority now want to stop, and for us in the Left it is of the utmost importance that we reach out and support those smokers who want to drop cigarettes. We have presented an ambitious cancer plan IV, which through several initiatives and with an economic priority of 2.2 billion. kr. must raise the Danish cancer treatment to the level of our neighbouring countries. One of the initiatives is precisely about quitting smoking and a special financial contribution and helping to stop smoking for particularly vulnerable groups. Of course, it is always worth a discussion when it is the task of society to provide financial support for changes in behaviour that some will argue that the citizen himself is master of. I do not disagree from the outset, but smoking is just a very special challenge. Smoking is not natural, it is something we actively choose for. It is also something we can choose from if we want it and if we fight for it. But, of course, the best will be if you do not start smoking at all. Therefore, there is a great and important task ahead of us as a society in ensuring that young people do not move down the path where smokes become a natural part of everyday life. Let me be very clear: we in the Left have an ambition that Denmark should have its first smoke-free generation by 2030. It is a very ambitious objective and it is not a task that we can solve politically alone. If we are to secure the first smoke-free generation by 2030, then many actors will have to work together in a targeted manner. It is about schools, about youth education, which needs modern teaching and information materials, it is about parents taking responsibility and being good role models and telling their children at home when talking around the dining table, why it is so stupid to start smoking. It is about the retail trade, which must live up to its responsibilities and demand identification, so that no young people under the age of 18 buy cigarettes. Last year, the government concluded a partnership agreement with the retail trade, which aims precisely at a more focused focus on training the staff behind the box, and aims to ensure that we in the Left have no doubt: existing Danish legislation must be complied with, including in the retail trade, and already at the beginning of 2018 the Minister of Health will follow up the partnership agreement, so that we keep the retail trade firm that they also have a responsibility. We have just launched a modern information campaign targeted young people on the platforms and social media in which they naturally travel. Because we must recognise that previous information campaigns for young people have not been targeted enough. The information campaign is part of the health pool agreement. Of course, one might wonder whether such an information campaign works. We know that 12%. of the high school students smoke daily and that 37 per cent. of the vocational school pupils smoke daily. So a more targeted campaign is needed in relation to the young people in vocational schools in particular. The good news is that if you ask the young people, more than half would actually like to stop smoking. I understand that, with the motion for a resolution here, the SF wants a law on standardised packs and a special queue in the supermarket for smokers. We do not want to go down that road in the left, although we agree with the goal of fewer smoking and more stopping. In 2016, we have implemented the EU Tobacco Product Directive and now have major health warnings on the packages, as well as reference to the Stopline. Now let the new legislation work and let us see the impact of both the directive and the other initiatives that we have launched before we start to consider further changes. The Left cannot support the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105040	Thank you. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105044	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. It is clear to hear that the Left has a lot on its mind here, but the Left can also get a great deal on their consciences, and that is something they probably do not want, and that is why we need action and due care. Let me just mention a figure which has not been mentioned in the debate yet. Many people know it: 13,600 Danes die every year as a result of a disease caused by tobacco smoking. 13,600 deaths in Denmark. Left says you want a smoke-free generation by 2030. I remember clearly when the Left Government launched its support for the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030. This was done on April 1, 2016. I don't want it to be a April Fool. There is something that needs to be looked at seriously here, and that is why action is needed. My question to the Left rapporteur is: is it still the position of the Left to work for smoke-free school hours that the Left Government launched when it came to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105156	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105158	I would like to start by thanking the Social Democrat rapporteur for his comments, but I also have to say that I really think it is very uncomfortable to try to be funny by talking about April fools here. I think this issue is so serious because it is about how we can ensure that fewer young people start smoking together in Denmark. It's about us securing the first non-smoking generation together by 2030. This is not a task that we can carry out alone here at Christiansborg. This requires many players to contribute; it requires the retail trade to play with; it requires parents to take responsibility; and it also requires efforts to be made in schools. I am sincerely pleased that we have the health promotion pool. There's one of them. The fight against cancer has been launched with resources which must be used precisely to ensure that the vocational schools also pay attention to why it is so important that we should also take responsibility here for ensuring that young people do not start smoking and that those who smoke stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105313	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105315	The rapporteur says there should be no joke about this. The rapporteur is also aware of the fact that this is certainly not what the Social Democrats want in this area. In fact, I believe that the Left has recognised that the Social Democrats want something in this area and that perhaps we could have found some common ground if there had not been a Tripartite Government, but if instead there had been a Left Government. That should be our wish. The rapporteur says that we have something to do together, but what the government is doing now is that they go with the retail trade. They do not go with the political majority, the broad majority that could be done with something in here. We want to create partnerships rather than make political agreements. I would just like to repeat to the rapporteur what the fight against cancer said when the cancer plan IV was launched, namely that a cancer plan without significant prevention initiatives, significant structural initiatives, was not a cancer plan IV. I think that it has been eroded since then, and that is why I should like to ask the rapporteur: has there been any erosion until today of the initiatives that the government backed up with cancer plan IV when it was launched?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105421	The rapporteur mentions the political majority. I am curious whether, when we are done with the debate here, there is a political majority for standardised packs and legislation on what should be the queue for what in the supermarkets. At first sight, I do not think there is a political majority wishing to move in that direction. However, I would still like to insist that we find solutions together. The information campaign, which we have launched under the heading of the rate pool, is a completely new way of campaigning and a very good example of us going together to take some new initiatives. For the campaign differs from other campaigns: On the one hand, the campaign lasts a lot, much longer than it lasts several years, and on the other hand, the campaign is targeted on some surfaces where young people move and where we have not had campaign initiatives before. So yes, we in the Left would very much like to have dialogue with both those with whom we can bring together a political majority, but also with those with whom we cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105522	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105527	Thanks for the speech. After all, a smoke-free generation in 2030 is an ambitious target, and thanks for that, but it will be nothing but words if there is no concrete action and action on the part of the Left and on the part of the government. The rapporteur also mentions cancer plan IV and is ambitious. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that the cancer plan IV is ambitious in terms of preventing cancer and preventing more people from starting to smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105606	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105609	Cancer Plan IV is one of Denmark's most ambitious cancer plans. 2.2 billion is tied up. kr. in the tail of the cancer plan IV, so yes, it is certainly an ambitious plan. It is also a plan that advocates the goal that we have from the Left, namely that we should have the first smoke-free generation by 2030. In fact, I have not heard any political parties that have set themselves a very clear objective in this way in relation to the direction in which they would like to see development.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105648	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105650	I think most people agree that this is the way we should go, but I would still like to hear what ambitious, concrete initiatives the rapporteur can mention in relation to prevention, in addition to a campaign for young people. We know that in the 1980s it was relatively easy to make a campaign. There we had one television channel and a very simple media image, but in addition to that campaign, what can the rapporteur mention from ambitious, concrete initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105723	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105724	But there are a number of initiatives that I can mention. I also mentioned them in my speech, but I would like to repeat them if the rapporteur was not aware. After all, we have introduced the Tobacco Products Directive; there have been larger warning images on the packages; there is reference to the Stopline and we can see that the Stopline is being used more than it has been in the past; there is the information campaign that we have taken the initiative together under the heading of the Rate Pool. Then I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and I would like to repeat this, the partnership with the retail trade, because the retail trade has a particularly important role here in ensuring that young people under the age of 18 do not buy tobacco. It is important that in the retail trade one is aware that one has a very great responsibility to ensure that Danish law is respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105817	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111105826	Thank you for that, President. The Socialist rapporteur said just down from his place that smoking costs an average of 13,600 lives a year not years of life, however. Smokers also have a 24 times greater risk of lung cancer than non-smokers, yet one out of every five Danes smoke today, and every day some 40 young people under the age of 18 start smoking. Unfortunately, the completely new figures that we have received here after New Year's in 2018 show that it is a development that stands completely still, and if it continues to do so, if we do nothing in relation to the tobacco sector, over the next 15 years there will be about 100,000 tobacco-related deaths in Denmark • 100,000 premature deaths, of which we could prevent some if we did something. From Enhedslisten's side, we believe that it is right to focus efforts on less tobacco among children and young people, and that is why we also support the goal that the government has formulated around a smoke-free generation by 2030. That is an ambitious objective, no doubt. But it is only ambitious if it really does happen, if you actually take initiatives to achieve it, otherwise it is just words on a piece of paper or a free round. Unfortunately, we do not think that the government is doing anything special to tell you the truth. I simply do not think that we are going to have the courage to take a stand on this objective and to get to grips with the tools that we know work, what we are hearing clearly from experts, from the research, from the patient organisations that have these tobacco-related diseases and deaths in their lives. The ones they point to are the ones that work. Today, the SF comes up with a motion for a resolution with two points. Firstly, specific rules governing the sale of tobacco, which would mean tightening up the age limit for the purchase of tobacco and, secondly, a proposal for neutral tobacco packages. Overall, it is commendable that the SF makes some suggestions. I believe that both neutral tobacco packages, which we know from a number of countries, including Australia, where there is proven effect, but also the attempt to enforce the 18-year age limit, are very important tools. Perhaps it is important to add that there are many other tools that might have even greater effect. My view is that the absolutely most important thing we can do in this area is quite different. That is to look at the prices of tobacco. As recently as today, Politiken has a front page where it says that tobacco is record cheap in Denmark compared to other countries. It is well documented that precisely the price is the most crucial parameter for whether children and young people start smoking. Just as I think it would be very, very important to tackle the spread of smoke-free school time to vocational education, which is the only youth education which is now excluded. So I would probably start with the two things if I had to prioritize, but you don't necessarily have to. You can do a lot of things in this area. So, to deal with the SF's proposal, I would say that we are in favour of neutral tobacco packages, so there are no problems with that part as far as we are concerned. I think it would be a gain if there were less advertising and less branding than there is today. We know that it already exists in Norway, Ireland, Great Britain, France, Australia, and the Danish Health Service, which is directly under the responsibility of the Minister, have also replied to the Folketing that it is believed that it will have an effect here in Denmark. So what's there to lose? For me to see nothing at all. Could we prevent just one and a half per cent, as the DF's rapporteur said, without harming anyone in my opinion, yes, what is there to lose? Nothing. Well, let's just do it. In relation to the SF's second proposal to introduce rules that tobacco may only be sold from some special cash lines in supermarkets or from kiosks, I am probably somewhat more doubtful about whether this is the right way to go. It is certain that we need to look at how to enforce the age limit. I think we should do some other things. I think it is far more important that there is actually control. There is no such thing today, and that is why I have serious doubts as to whether the government's partnership will have any effect whatsoever. Let us look at some of the other countries where someone else has been set to check that this age limit is being enforced than the police. That could be interesting. Let us look at the sanctions that exist. It's relatively small fines you can get. We also know that if you repeatedly violate these rules in some countries, you may lose the licence to sell tobacco. There I think there is something to be gained in terms of being able to enforce the age limit. So that is the way we want to look instead of introducing this, in which I also see a number of problems. However, as I said, it is very commendable that the debate should be raised. There is no doubt that it is essential for public health in Denmark that we initiate this discussion on tobacco.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110324	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110327	Thank you. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentions the price as a factor. I just want to ask what Enhedslisten thinks a pack of cigarettes should cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110339	60 kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110342	60 kr.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110349	So no one else has asked for short remarks. Next is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110351	Thank you. There is no doubt that smoking is both dangerous and unhealthy. We know that, and the whole population knows it, and it has been informed about it since the early 1970s. This has probably contributed to a decrease in the number of smokers by approx. 1% a year, up to 6 years ago, when the number stagnated. The Smoking Act came 10-11 years ago, and it is not because I would say that it is the Smoking Act that has caused the number to stagnate or perhaps even increase slightly. I would just like to point out that the number of smokers has thus decreased every year for approx. Forty years without this proposal, further regulation is envisaged: that tobacco sales should be made from a kiosk or special cash line in supermarkets and sold in neutral packaging. So you want to impose a lot of costs on private companies in the conversion of supermarkets, the conversion of production etc., because you want to decide how the Danes should live, and because you think from a political point of view that you best know what is the good life for each Dane. But politicians do not have to decide that. We must have our personal freedom to live as we please, as long as it does not harm others. We have a personal responsibility for our own lives. So do young people, and they must learn to take it. How to become responsible adults if they do not learn to take responsibility as young people. Children must also learn to become responsible adults, but it is not the children of the state and not the responsibility of the state to raise them. It's a job for parents. We talk so much about parents not being curling parents, while we are creating a clinging and paternal curling state. There are many things that are dangerous. We cannot and must not ban them all or regulate everything to get people to behave as we think is right. The state must only protect us from dangers that come from outside, such as assaults and break-ins. On the other hand, we could do a great deal better; we would much rather use the resources for that. Whether regulation works or not, I and the Liberal Alliance are against taking action against personal freedom. We have the right and the duty to decide our own lives. Furthermore, it could be fun to know what SF actually means by neutral cigarette packs. Will you then remove all the death and destruction that is on the packages now and that does not make them very neutral? I guess you don't. But then let's call it standard packages, understood in the way that the package must be covered with lots of disgusting pictures. It should be noted that the French Minister for Health has acknowledged that there is no trace of a fall in sales of cigarettes as a result of the implementation of the packages as standard packages. In Norway, a media called actually.no, which probably corresponds to the Danish TV programme Detector, has that there is no coverage to establish that standardised tobacco packs work. The comments on the proposal refer to the Australian system of standard packages, and in a reply from the Danish Ministry of Health it appears that the result from Australia is very small. That's 0.56%. over 3 years, and this is associated with very great uncertainty, partly because Australia is difficult to compare with Denmark, partly because several changes were introduced simultaneously in Australia. However, as I said, whether you believe in effects or not, I and the Liberal Alliance do not believe that we should regulate behaviour that does not harm others, and politicians should not decide how we should live. We have a personal responsibility that the state should not take over and we have the right to personal freedom. Of course, the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110806	There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110811	Thank you. I have a very brief question for the rapporteur: does the Liberal Alliance think that too many young people smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110821	There is no doubt that smoking is unhealthy and that smoking is dangerous, which is why it is unwise to smoke, but it is not something we should decide as politicians. Everyone knows it's dangerous. You have an enlightened basis and then you have to make a decision on it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110838	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110842	But it is not the way I have understood that the Liberal Alliance is not at all in favour of regulation in any area. After all, there is plenty of regulation that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of. The rapporteur himself says that this is dangerous. Yes, smoking is dangerous. Is there no regulation at all that the rapporteur thinks we should have when it comes to cigarettes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110911	It is true that smoking is dangerous. It is dangerous for you, and it is true that we want to regulate a great many things. We will regulate everything that is dangerous for others. The state must protect us from burglary, from theft, from assaults, and, by the way, more resources should be spent on that. So we will clearly regulate, and wherever many people are gathered, there is a need for regulation. That is the way it is, but you just have to keep to regulating what is hurting others.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110943	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110948	Thank you. I would also just like to ask briefly: does the Liberal Alliance support the goal of a smoke-free generation by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111110958	Again, there is no doubt, as I have said before, that smoking is dangerous and it is unhealthy, and that is why it is really good if you do not smoke, because it makes you feel bad, you can die, you can get sick, you can have a bad life from it. There is no doubt about that, and that is why it is good for the individual to perhaps not smoke, but it is for the individual himself to assess it. I do not have to assess it or the rapporteur from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111030	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111032	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for listing all the harmful health conditions associated with smoking. That is precisely why it makes very good sense to prevent, because it is really, really expensive for the health sector if we are to deal with alone. So I would just like to ask the Liberal Alliance whether they are prepared to devote the necessary funds to increased treatment if we do not achieve the objectives of a smoke-free generation by 2030 or one of the other objectives of reducing smoking and its harmful effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111103	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111105	There are two things in it. If you take the direct costs only for treatment and for taxes, smokers pay about twice as much in taxes as it costs health care to treat them. That's one thing. Although this was not the case, when we have chosen a collective, tax-financed health service with equal and free access for all, we must also accept that there are some costs for treatments that are self-inflicted, just as if we have been on skiing and come home with leg injuries. If we have run marathon races, if we have done other things that make us have damage, even though it is self-inflicted, we have to be prepared that these are the costs that exist in the Danish healthcare system. The fact that we have free and equal access to health care, which is collective and tax-financed, should not be misused to regulate the behaviour of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111206	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111208	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance for a flaming speech of freedom. I think it sounds extremely hollow. So, the reality is that when you smoke, you become heavily addicted, and therefore we can also see that when the smokers are asked, they answer that they actually want to get rid of the smoke on which they depend. How much freedom is there in that? It is for me to see extremely limited freedom. Another thing that I think is extremely hollow is that the rapporteur makes such a flaming speech that the state should not interfere at all. Nevertheless, the Liberal Alliance is part of a government which clearly sets targets in this area and which, according to the government itself, is also taking initiatives to encourage people to change their behaviour. That is exactly the same as what the rest of us are proposing. These are just some other types of suggestions. I mean, this speech of freedom isn't connected to what the Liberal Alliance really does. Alternatively, the Liberal Alliance really had to work for the complete removal of a tobacco tax and could therefore have a package of cigarettes at a price of DKK 10. We had to work to ensure that there were no longer smoking bans in schools. One had to work to ensure that there was no age limit in relation to when to buy tobacco. But none of those things I've heard the Liberal Alliance suggest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111317	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111318	It is a strange idea to have to introduce further prohibitions into personal freedom in order to ensure more personal freedom. That is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur started with. The rapporteur says that there is no freedom in being sick. No, there isn't. I totally agree with that. However, imposing a ban on what one can expose one's own body to and what one can do for oneself, in order to create further personal freedom is not connected to me at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111358	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111359	We disagree on what freedom is in this context. That's why I say what I do. However, I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, who believes that this is an important freedom struggle: is the Liberal Alliance so ready with some proposals that remove some of the regulation we have in this area today? Do we want to eliminate the taxes that already exist today, which account for about three quarters of the price of a package of tobacco? Because it is intervention by the state, the curling state we must understand. Do you want to remove the age limit for the age of 18 to buy tobacco? Or are there any other of these regulations that we already have today and that are the terrible curling state's attack on the freedom of the individual that the Liberal Alliance is working to remove?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111443	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111443-2	There are many of the bans and regulations that exist today that the Liberal Alliance has not voted on, which we have voted against, and we will do so again if further proposals for regulations and prohibitions are put forward. We have at present. No plans to roll back anything that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111501	Thank you. Then there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111508	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for presenting this excellent motion for a resolution. Let me start by stating that in the alternative, we have the view that children and young people should not smoke at all, that fewer people should smoke and that we must do everything we can to prevent more people from starting to smoke and more people from getting cancer. That is why we are voting in favour of this proposal. And that is also why, last March, we tabled a motion for a resolution to increase the tax, which unfortunately no other party voted in favour of. I hope there are some who have become wiser in the meantime. Of course, the government and the Minister are well aware of the harmful effects of cigarettes, so I do not want to list them here. After all, the government's objective is precisely that we should have the first smoke-free generation by 2030. That is good and it is ambitious. It is therefore also surprising that the government is doing so little, not to say almost nothing, and largely leaves responsibility to the retail trade. What does that mean? The Danish Health Authority describes in a recently published study how the number of smokers has not decreased since 2011. Well, for six years it hasn't fallen, and one in five Danes still goes away. Thus, in 6 years it has not succeeded in getting fewer Danes to smoke, despite 72 per cent. of those who smoke or have smoked would not smoke at all if they had to live their lives over. I hope the Minister agrees that it can and must be done better and that we must do more. It is widely known that supermarkets place things like candy and other goods that are called impulse goods close to the box to tempt people to buy impulses when they are in line and bored by the box. It's working, isn't it? So I think it is deeply unacceptable that we in Denmark should allow the same thing to be done with cigarette packs. Cigarettes are often presented in a fine glass mount right in front of the box clerk or in a wide, colourful selection behind the box clerk with great tempting design, great creativity and a huge selection. According to the Danish Health Authority, smoking is the single factor that has the greatest negative impact on Danish public health. Smoking, as several people have mentioned today, is responsible for a quarter of all deaths in Denmark. All of us here today, as rapporteurs on health, know this well. Most smokers start smoking during their teens, so it is particularly important to try to influence youths not to start smoking. According to the Danish Health Authority's latest study from the beginning of 2018, the majority of those who start smoking are actually under 18 years of age, which is why we have to do everything we can to change that trend. Even the retail trade is trying to shout us out; Coop is trying to get politicians to tighten the rules for marketing. To conclude, in the alternative, we believe that every effort should be made to make fewer people smoke and, in particular, to get fewer young people to smoke. Everything else is irresponsible. We need to screw the handles we have. Sales prices must be increased, packages must be made less attractive, and they must not be sold right next to the clerk in order to tempt as much as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111856	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111900	Thank you. I have heard the rapporteur say many times that the alternative tabled a motion for a resolution to raise tobacco prices, but nobody supported it. I would just like to correct that, because we said quite clearly at the first reading that we were positive about that proposal. The proposal has never been put to the vote in this Chamber, so of course we have not voted on it. But I would say that we have long believed and still believe that tobacco prices should rise just to get that misunderstanding corrected here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111930	What I am saying is that no party supported our resolution in the House, so they agreed to support the resolution. Neither did Enhedslisten's tax rapporteur, who was on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111955	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111111957	That's not true. I am looking at the speech from that debate and what he concludes by saying is: 'With those comments I would say that we also want to look at raising taxes on tobacco products, and that is why the position of the Enhedslisten on this proposal is that we are in favour of the proposal. ▪ That's how it ends, and he says it earlier. So I would just like to correct that misunderstanding and say that this is not a new position on the part of the Enhedslisten, because we have had it for a long time. We had it for that debate too, and we have it today too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112023	I am very pleased about that. As I remember the debate in the Chamber, he said in the course of the speech that you could not support the proposal, but were positive about looking at something where at the same time some other political proposals were created in relation to the social aspect of smoking. But I'm happy to look at it again to be absolutely sure what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112058	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. And it is as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112107	First of all, I would like to thank the SF and Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen for presenting this draft parliamentary resolution. Inhaled tobacco smoke has harmful effects on all organs throughout the body, and smoking is a huge problem for public health. For young people who start smoking and continue smoking, half will die from diseases related to their smoking. A quarter will be affected before their 70th birthday, and these smokers will lose 23 years of their lives on average. Yet today, in spite of the initiatives taken in recent years, more young people are starting to smoke. It is alarming, and it is incredibly worrying, because in the worst cases habits can keep up with their whole lives. In fact, more than four out of five daily smokers regret that they have ever started smoking, and it says something about how hard it is to let go of some habits once you have started smoking in your youth. And that worries me. I have a teenager at home myself, an 18-year-old, who for all things in the world I want to live a healthy and long life. What I'm seeing is that on the social media that he's following, for example. his Instagram, young people are young people in his company who post pictures of special branded cigarettes, which are apparently more hip and recognized than others. I and the Radical Left think that anything that can limit young people's starting to smoke is a good thing, and these are measures that we support. SF's proposal is a bid. There are many more offers, but today I shall confine myself to dealing with the specific motion for a resolution. The Radical Left can support the proposal to remove marks, to make cigarette packets neutral. There should be no branding value in cigarette marks. I can understand that reading down the text can add to the effects of the printed health warnings is only an advantage. In relation to the part that tobacco sales should be made from a kiosk or a special cash line in the supermarket, we are a little more uncertain. I have had a little difficulty finding quite a lot of evidence of the proposal, i.e. does it work? We will be voting in favour of the resolution because we think the neutral package is very good, but the part that concerns the particular box line we need to grow a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112405	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112416	Thank you for that and thank you very much for the many positive statements that have also been made during the debate on this proposal. I cannot really think of an objective that is more unanimous than a smoke-free generation 2030. Almost all the health rapporteurs agree on this. We will do so because we all recognise that smoking is harmful to health and who does not want to prevent future generations from having to contend with addiction and harmful effects, as previous generations have done. Through various collections, a smoke-free generation 2030 has also been a theme. Unfortunately, things just aren't going as well as we dream of. In fact, the number of new smokers is again increasing, and it is particularly worrying that, unfortunately, the debutantes are often under 18 years of age. Time and again, the media can document that young people under 18 years of age can easily buy tobacco. And this proposal is directly inspired by such a study. In fact, it is completely unacceptable from the SF's point of view that, despite repeated examples, retail trade has not managed to enforce the age limit for tobacco sales. And that may be understandable, because in many supermarkets it is often young people who are under the age of 18 who are sitting behind the box with a • and I can hardly describe it more picturesque than the Danish People's Party's rapporteur did it • a great queue where you patiently wait for your trip. And I therefore think it is not very difficult to imagine that the young cashier, who has to ask for identification, perhaps even of the comrades, might find it a little bit difficult. A step in the right direction, therefore, could be to remove the sale of tobacco from the payroll lines or limit it to some sales outlets... kiosks or special cash lines... staffed by experienced employees... and very much, from my point of view, adult employees. It also makes sense to relaunch the proposal for anonymous packs, as set out in the Annex to this Regulation. experience from, inter alia, Australia has just a positive effect. Of course, other methods can also be used. We in the SF are actually open to that and we also have several suggestions for it. The latest example that we have discussed, and which Enhedslisten has also mentioned, is the price, which certainly also has an impact on the number of new smokers. However, despite the fact that there is no support for the proposal as it stands here, I am still listening to the fact that we are all keeping the goal in mind, namely a smoke-free generation 2030, and I am also listening to the recognition that developments have therefore come to a standstill. It has even gone back in certain areas. It should provide a basis for further discussion in committee, perhaps with a view to reaching agreement on precisely those proposals which can help us reverse developments, including, at least, ensuring that retail trade complies with the law. I guess that's not too much to ask. So I would like to thank you very much for the debate and hope that we can have a further discussion in committee with a view to those nuances, so that it could nevertheless help us to agree on a direction, so that we can also resolve this very problem, which is just one of many.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112759	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112803	Thank you. I just want to hear: if the starting point is that we have to remove trademarks from everything that is unhealthy, then in future SF will also come up with proposals to remove trademarks on candy, chips, soda, McDonald's food and pork roast etc.? Or where's the limit for SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112828	I do not think, in fact, that we in the SF would be opposed to giving consumers more information about the harmful effects of eating chips or drinking soft drinks by, for example, drinking soft drinks. to provide information about the calorie content, or whatever else might be relevant. I wouldn't be opposed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112849	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112850	Now it is not just a question of information, because that is what we fully agree on, that is to say that we can provide information and provide information. But will the SF come up with proposals to change legislation and regulate further in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111112909	I simply think that this issue is far too serious to include all sorts of other scenarios in relation to what should be actively done to respond to the harmful effects of smoking on health. Everyone knows that and this is something that the Cancer Combat over and over again confirms that exactly the fact that we have stopped the number of new smokers can be epoch-making in relation to a smoke-free generation 2030. In any case, this can help solve a very serious health problem, which also costs society dearly, but which is mainly humane. So there must be information for citizens about society, but the least we, as adults, can do is ensure that our children do not have access to the illegal sale of cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113004	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113024	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113038	When a family is struck by the tragedy of losing an infant, it is that we, as a society, must come together and look after each other. We're not good enough for that today. Mothers are wisely protected with 14 weeks of grief leave, while fathers are left to themselves and are expected to go to work and work their grief in secret, knowing that the mother is sitting at home crying alone. Therefore, this bill is good and reasonable, which protects the right of fathers to grief leave in the event of infant death, and thus also protects Danish families with children. So I would like to thank SF and SF's former MP Pernille Vigsø Bagge, who already drew Parliament's attention to this issue in 2007. And I would particularly like to thank the National Association of Infant Death for the great work and touching stories of not least fathers, who have themselves experienced going down the flag, because as a society we have not been good enough to look after each other. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for finally having a majority in favour of making this proposal a reality very soon, I hope. There is full support from the Social Democratic Party, and there has been it all the way through. One element that I would call on both the government and my colleagues in the Committee on Gender Equality to look at in committee is the part that concerns the employee's obligation to inform the employer of the use of this right. I can understand the employers' wishes to be able to plan better, but we must also remember that this is a particularly tragic situation for parents. This strikes both father and mother, and we must ensure that special consideration is given to the fact that, in this particular situation, we may find it difficult to keep to very general warnings. That is why I would also like to appeal to us to look at it here in committee in the future and to see whether we can find a sensible compromise that takes the necessary account of all parties. I certainly hope we can. Nevertheless, it is a good legislative proposal. This is another good day for a Social Democrat equal opportunities rapporteur, and I would say well fought to all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113335	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113343	Thank you. It is a very good day today when we are going to deal with this proposal on the right to grief leave, and with the proposal we are putting both parents on the same footing. We introduce the right to 14 weeks' absence if the child is still born or is aborted before 32 weeks after birth, so that the parents are treated in accordance with the maternity law. It's a huge grief when, as parents, you lose a child, no matter what age the child is. This is an important subject which we have discussed before under the previous government too, but we did not find a solution. But that's what we've found now. The government and the Danish People's Party have set aside funds in the Finance Act to equate parents, because whether you are a mother or a father, losing a child is a great sadness. The legislation we have today benefits the mother, who is entitled to 14 weeks' absence, while the father is entitled to only 14 days. The Danish People's Party considers it both fair and fair to equalise parents, so that they can at least choose to take leave to enjoy real gender equality in this area. There are many different ways to deal with grief and there is nothing wrong or more right than anything else, and it is very different what the individual family needs in the grief they face. Therefore, it is also important to respect parents'choices, whether they choose to take their grief leave or not. This proposal corrects a historical inequality in the rules of maternity law, and it is a clear improvement in parents' ability to work together to deal with the grief of losing a small child. There have been a number of comments from the consultation parties on the alert rule. They consider it inappropriate to set an early warning period for losing a child and call for this provision to be omitted or, if necessary, softened. This is something that we in the Committee on Gender Equality are also following up and we have sent the question to the Minister yesterday. The Danish People's Party supports the bill. We think this is a very good legislative proposal, and we also think that we have had a good dialogue and a good discussion across the parties here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113557	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's just one question from Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113601	Thanks for the speech. It is really just a receipt that the Danish People's Party also has an eye for the issues that may be at an alert deadline. After all, there will be many places where you just solve it quite sensibly. If we in the law here can guard against the fact that no one is suddenly going to get caught up in this, it would be very good. So it's just a receipt that you have an eye for it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113628	At any rate, I think it is important that we have a dialogue on the importance of it, also in relation to whether it may have some inappropriate consequences. We have to take them, among other things. in the Equality Committee, but also with the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113641	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113700	Thank you for the floor. This is not a new proposal that we are discussing today. The proposal stems from SF's motion for a resolution B 108, which was discussed in spring 2017. Even then, the authors of the motion met with great sympathy for their proposal to introduce equal access to grief leave for both parents and co-mothers. The report on the proposal also shows that the parties agree to give priority to the problem of the lack of the right to absenteeism of fathers and co-mothers in the context of the 2018 Financial Law Agreement by submitting a legislative proposal in the parliamentary year 2018, which is therefore the proposal we are debating today. As we also stated in the discussion of B 108, this is a very important proposal, which receives a great deal of support from the Left. You should not compromise with injustice, and it is a injustice that you have not had a level playing field in this area. As you know, grief does not distinguish between mother and father or between mother and mother, and that is why our maternity legislation should not, of course, do so. With this bill, we will ensure that the families affected by the unbearable tragedy of losing a child will have peace and time to come together through a very heavy and difficult period. It can't relieve the grief much, but it makes the framework of personal grief easier. I welcome the fact that we have been able to work towards a good and lasting solution for the benefit of the people affected by the law. It's a very happy day. Thank you for the floor. The Left, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113851	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111113859	Thank you. As parents, of course, you have no doubt that if you lose a child, it is a great grief. Of course, it is for a father, a co-mother, or an adoptive. That is why this bill is an important step towards equality, that is to say, recognising that both parents, including adoptive parents, can be severely affected by the grief resulting from losing a child either at birth, during the first weeks of the child or by adoption of the child. That is why Enhedslisten very much welcomes this proposal. In Denmark we continue to have problems in guaranteeing equal rights for parents for maternity leave, so this proposal is a step in the right direction. But the situation in which the parents find themselves also means that, because of the grief, you might overlook the fact that you have these very strict deadlines to inform the employer that you want to have grief leave. That is why we would like to have taken it up in line with some of the other rapporteurs: can we soften this up so that, precisely because of the grief, we do not lose the right to grief leave in the particular situation in which we find ourselves? So we support the proposal. In conclusion, we would like to congratulate the SF for having tabled this proposal and also the Social Democrat equal opportunities rapporteur, Rasmus Horn Langhoff, who has worked hard for it and for changing these rules on grief leave. So thank you for that. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114024	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114052	Thank you. Losing your child must be one of the worst things you can possibly experience, and of course it is a terrible experience for all parents and not just for mother. Therefore, it is also gratifying that this law introduces equality in the case of grief leave if you are in the unhappy situation of losing your child before the 32nd week after birth or receiving an adopted child. The law will entitle parents to 14 weeks' absence in connection with a child's death during the first 32 weeks. It is good that we are seeing the many modern family forms and are constantly working for gender equality in different family situations. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114141	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114148	It is a good day for the area of equality with L 121, draft law amending the law on maternity leave, which entitles both parents to 14 weeks' absence. So, as a starting point, of course, the alternative supports it. We are very positive about the bill. The intention is good: to spread the understanding of parenthood and the grief that comes, whether you have given up for adoption or you have lost a child. It is fragile, I think, to stand and talk about, and that is why we think there is a little missing too. I think that this amendment to the law is out of date with regard to the social structures we have today. We need to focus more on the fact that we have some unconventional family constellations, that we have rainbow families. What is obvious to me, for example, is that you include mothers, but that you do not count with fathers in the amendment of the law. So there is a problem with the fact that in the consultation process we have not heard the Association Father or Parental Associations in relation to the Glbti segment, and in this way I think we should have a better understanding of what new family structures we have to deal with in our country. So it might be nice for us to take it with us. With regard to the obligation to alert, we agree: we must look at this in committee. Otherwise, we are very, very positive about the bill. So hopefully, together with the Minister, we can look at untraditional family constellations, rainbow families and also have it incorporated into the bill. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114348	Thank you. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114356	Thank you. The Radical Left, of course, also supports the bill we are now considering. We have been involved in the negotiations in different contexts, and I can say that I myself am quite surprised that we have to go up to 2017-18 before we start looking at gender equality needs in this area. Because when you lose a child, it's a family matter. It's not just a matter for your mother. I would like to acknowledge that this has been possible so quickly when we became aware of it and that we have been able to have a very broad consensus on the solution and that the government has also taken a positive step in this context, so that we can have the equality rules implemented in this very sad area but rightly so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114448	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114453	Although the circumstances surrounding what we are discussing in the Chamber today are incredibly sad, I, as rapporteur for family and equality, nevertheless allow myself to be happy. The bill we are discussing today ensures that fathers and co-mothers and adopters are entitled to 14 weeks of grief leave in connection with the death or adoption of a child before the 32nd week following the birth or receipt of the child. It is an important help for the people who end up in the greatest grief one can imagine; and on that basis there is reason to be happy. It is almost impossible to imagine how much grief it must be for the parents and the families who have to go through it. When it comes to the opportunities for grief leave, there has been a curious problem of equality which we now at last seem to be resolving. The mother who loses an infant is now entitled to 14 weeks' mourning leave, which is good; the father, on the other hand, is only entitled to 2 weeks. And this is a problem of equality which, as a society, we must, of course, address. It is basically about recognising that both parents have the right to grieve. Fathers or co-mothers who lose a child are as badly affected by grief as the mother of the child, and we therefore believe in the SF that it is perfectly reasonable that both parties should of course be entitled to 14 weeks of mourning leave. At the same time, we are very pleased that adopters are also included in the draft law put forward by the government. It is positive that this group also has rights equivalent to those of biological parents. In addition to recognizing the grief of both parents, this change of law is also important when it comes to seeing the grief process as one you have to go through together. This is not an individual matter. The same rights for parents improve the conditions under which they and possibly other children in the family can work their grief together. I am also sensitive to the fact that the consultation process supports the purpose of the legislative proposal. However, there are some organisations, for example. The LO and the Women's Council, which question the proposed early warning rules for leave, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned, and whether they are at all appropriate. When an infant dies within 32 weeks, it can often happen very quickly and without warning, and that is why I hope that in committee we will be able to deepen the consequences of the early warning rules in practice and possibly soften them up, so that we do not create problems in a very vulnerable situation for the family. SF has been fighting for many years to extend the right to grief leave. The motion for a resolution we tabled last spring, on which this bill follows, was, in fact, the fifth in line since 2007, which the SF has put forward in order to equalise the right of parents to grief leave. So it may not come as a surprise that we support it, of course. It has been a long, cool move, but it is good that we are now finally getting equal parental rights to grief leave. That is why I would like to thank the Minister and the government for carrying on our initiative and the other parties of the Folketing for their clear support. SF is of course in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114824	There is a question from Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114829	Thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, and thank you to the SF for having so persistently focused on this area. I just have one question in relation to my comment that the amendment of the law is actually out of date in relation to the family constellations we have today and that the bill does not include co-fathers, but only co-mothers. Can the SF support that we should also open up the concept of rainbow parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114858	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114859	Yes, and I also noticed it, and I agree that our family policy needs to be looked at to see that families are very diverse. But it's also about looking at child law in general, because this bill is built up in relation to the parents who are registered as legal parents of the child. Today, child law does not allow you to have more. I think it's a little out of the scope of this bill, so I think it's gotta be something we're doing in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114936	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservative rapporteur is not here, so we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111114945	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for the many very positive comments that have been made on this draft law. Let me also thank Mrs Trine Torp from the SF for a fine speech by the rapporteur and also for a fine political work which has led to the legislative proposal we are discussing today following a discussion we had in the spring on a resolution. It is to be said here today that this is not the first time that this issue has been discussed. This has been done in the past. But what is new today is that a legislative proposal has now been created, and thus money has also been set aside to correct something that is really sad and sad and which should have been resolved long ago by a welfare society. It is, in fact, history in this matter, even when several rapporteurs say that it is strange that it has not been discussed before. So this has been discussed before, but fortunately a solution has been found, and I think we should be happy about that. For what is crucial to the financial law agreement, which I would also like to say to the Danish People's Party that we appreciate, is that we have now obtained the funding that allows this to be done. Mrs Adsbøl also mentioned this in her rapporteur's speech. That is exactly what makes it possible for us to provide funding which will then be available to the whole of the Danish Parliament, so that we can help to support it. It is also important to say, as several rapporteurs have said, that the draft law does away with the rules that have been inappropriate in relation to the loss of a small child, the rules that have both been unreasonable and have not made sense. So I am looking forward to a good political debate, a good committee procedure, but we are also hoping that it will be a relatively rapid committee procedure. I do not intend to do that as a minister, because I do not have the opportunity to do so, but I hope that together we will be able to ensure that the draft law can enter into force as soon as possible. I think we owe it to those who might be affected by such an unhappy incident. Then, of course, I would also like to clarify in this committee the whole issue, as there was today in relation to the alert obligation, which I think has been slightly misunderstood. This is not to cause problems for those who may avail themselves of it. On the contrary, it is precisely to ensure that you get into a situation where your employer knows that this is why you need as a man, for example. to make use of these rules. But I look forward to returning to that in writing. I understand that questions have been asked, and we will then have to discuss this during the committee procedure that is taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115241	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115242	Yeah. In any case, we are very much prepared to tighten the reins and get this committee going quickly so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. Of course, we are all interested in that. What consideration does the Minister give of the reports coming from a number of parties about the deadlines for warning, in addition to the Minister's announcement of what was envisaged with the bill? What is the Minister doing with regard to the clear signals that are being sent about whether one could loosen it up a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115324	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115325	The considerations I am making are that I think we should hold a technical discussion on why these early warning rules are then included in the legislative proposal. And that is because one goes from a situation where it has previously been a mother, who the workplace has been aware of having to go on maternity leave, to another person now coming in whom a workplace may not necessarily know to come into the situation that one would take advantage of the opportunity that one now gets. So I am actually going to have to find an opportunity to unfold this, so that you understand both the purpose of it and then we have to discuss it, just as I am always willing to discuss things that can be clarified or clarified. However, it is important for me to say today: it is indeed also in order to provide greater security for those who may avail themselves of the rules that we hope will now be adopted, also in relation to their workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115427	Thank you. A new comment? You gotta keep in touch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115431	Yeah. I am fully aware of the problem. After all, this has not usually been a problem in the past, in the sense that the mother should still have maternity leave, so that it can become a problem for the future in a situation in which a father did not intend to take any leave, but then needs to take a grief leave with the rest of the family. There it will be something we have to deal with. It is not because we want to be unfair to anyone, but what is important is that there are no fathers or families who are going to stumble a little in formalities and then end up with what we are sitting here and agree that we want to protect, namely that families end up losing that right because they just stumble in some formality. So I hope we'll take that with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115520	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115521	I agree with that one hundred percent. I also believe that we can find a perfectly balanced and understandable solution to this problem without any difficulty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111115533	Thank you. And then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we'll have a call for lunch and we'll resume the meeting today at 8:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130000	The sitting is resumed. We have reached item 5 of the agenda, which is a first reading of Bill No. L 120. The debate is open, and we will start with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130033	Last summer, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives entered into an agreement under the heading "More years on the labour market." In this context, it was agreed to reduce the integration benefit by 3%. and limit the number of months that the recipient of the benefit may receive in order to be able to Danish at a certain level. The proposal is that the supplement be converted into a bonus which can only be paid for six months. According to the bill we are now discussing, it is a saving of approx. 10-20 million kr. annual. The Social Democrats agree that the level of social benefits is important for the influx to Denmark, and the Social Democrats also agree that there must be a significant incentive to get into work and education for the new arrivals, if we are to have broken it, that too many of our new fellow citizens are going unemployed. Social democracy also believes that it may be sensible to have profit principles for some benefits, as we already do with retirement pensions and early retirement and, most recently, with the children's check. All this weighs in one weight bowl for the integration benefit. However, since the start of the integration service in summer 2015, we have also maintained that some families of children are being hit too hard. Those children simply have too many deprivations. It is not only the responsibility of society, but it is also the responsibility of society that they can go to camp school and get a proper school bag or some warm clothes for the Danish January weather. It has been this concern for children that has led the Social Democratic Party to vote against the integration benefit, and it is with the same arguments and concerns that we are now also rejecting this bill. We look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130220	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move forward, and then it's the Danish People's Party, and that's Mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130234	Thank you. I can already tell you that the Danish People's Party can support the bill. It is no wonder, as it is the implementation of an agreement concluded by the Danish People's Party with the government, and we are of course behind it. It is of course a pity that the Social Democratic Party cannot support the bill, because we would have liked to see it, so there had been an even wider majority behind some of the restrictions that we are talking about here today. But that, among other things. Basically, for the Danish People's Party, it must be less attractive to come to Denmark as an asylum seeker and as a refugee and as a family couple, and this bill contributes to that. After all, we have already reinstated the start-up aid, we then call it the integration benefit, but it is basically a restoration of the start-up aid, and then a Danish supplement came on top. It was not something that happened with the good will of the Danish People's Party, but it was part of a compromise. So we have reinstated the startup aid or the startup service. It is then reduced further by 3%, which basically means a few hundred kroner for most of those who receive the integration benefit. Then it happens that some of the Danish supplement is converted into a Danish bonus, because in some cases you have seen that there have been some individuals on the integration benefit, who, because they have received the Danish supplement, have received more than a Danish cash aid recipient has received, but this is corrected with this proposal. So all in all we think it is a very good proposal and the Danish People's Party can of course vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130409	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are ready to move forward, and it is the rapporteur of the Left who is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130428	Sir. President, thank you for the floor. When the government introduced the integration service in 2015, it was both to make it less attractive to apply for asylum in Denmark, but also to get more of the newly arrived refugees and foreigners into work. Indeed, the community that you meet at a workplace helps to strengthen the competences that can help you to help you better in your home country when it is possible to return home. However, a reduction in the integration benefit will mean that integration benefit beneficiaries will be given more space under the current ceiling sizes for additional housing support, etc. Therefore, the government proposes to make impact changes to the cash benefits ceiling for beneficiaries of integration benefits to adapt them to the new rate of benefit. The 2015 Danish supplement is another benefit to encourage newcomers to move more quickly into the labour market. The Government is now also proposing with this proposal that the Danish supplement should in future be paid as six instalments of approx. 1,500 kroner. per month. Finally, the government proposes that the Integration Act introduce a tax-free Danish bonus of DKK 6,000. to foreigners who are covered by the integration programme but do not receive integration benefit. The legislative changes proposed here by the government must ensure that newcomers of asylum seekers and other foreigners receive a greater incentive to work during the time they are in Denmark. This is important not only for our economy but also for our entire social structure. That is why the Left supports the proposal and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130604	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130607	I would like to ask the rapporteur: if it is believed that this leads to more people getting to work, how many people imagine getting to work by reducing the benefit by 3%.? And another question is, if it doesn't help, is there some lower limit to when you think people are just too poor in this country, or are you going to continue until people have no money?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130628	I do not have a precise figure on how many more it is because of the reduction in the 3%, but we have seen that the reform of the integration system, which we have introduced over the last 21⁄2 years, including the integration benefit, has contributed to a massive increase in work. It is in round numbers, if you look at refugees who have been here for 3 years, gone from one in ten to about three in ten. It's a massive increase. I do not expect this adjustment to contribute so much, but I expect it to make a positive contribution in the right direction. In relation to whether there is a lower rate: The goal here is not that people should be parked on social benefits. The aim is that during the period when people are in Denmark, a father and a mother must enter the labour market. I don't want them parked at home on social benefits. I think it is a far, far greater disaster to sit at home than it is to go out and contribute to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130723	Sir. Jesper Kiel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130726	We've been trying to be a contact family for some refugees. In fact, I have talked a lot with these refugees, and it really is not my experience that some people are at home. They go to work every day. They deliver their little child to a nursery or kindergarten and go every day to work. They just don't get a penny for it, because it's company practice after company practice and school and company practice. None of these people want to work. It's just that none of them have them in company practice hiring them. What good will it do if they get even poorer now and have to hunt down this week's offer and free diapers from the friends and everything else? How is that supposed to help them get a job? Because they are every day at work and they are not on holiday, because they are also in business practice throughout their holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130808	I think the figures speak very well for themselves. Unfortunately, we recently saw that just 12%. of women from Syria who have come to Denmark are out on the labour market after three years, as I remember the figures. It is not to repeat myself, but the integration effort we have made has just helped us to move from one in ten to three out of ten refugees in general after three years. But that's not enough at all. Three out of ten is not enough. We need to get much more into the labour market. We can see that, since we introduced it, the benefits of integration have had a really positive effect. This will be a further step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130844	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130847	Thank you to the rapporteur. When the integration service was introduced in 2015, there were really strong criticisms of it from among others. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the Human Rights Institute and virtually all NGOs. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees considered at that time that the integration grant did not comply with Articles 23 and 24 of the Refugee Convention and with Denmark's other international obligations not to discriminate. What I am wondering is that those remarks are not taken into account at all in the legislative proposal. I would really like to hear how the rapporteur feels about the fact that when we adopt this bill, which then further restricts the benefits of integration, we go in and discriminate against a number of citizens in relation to the other citizens here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111130945	I do not think there is any discrimination in any way. On the contrary, people are given a greater incentive to get out and have a real job in the real world, and so there is nothing healthier for a child family than having a father and a mother who is not sitting at home parked on social benefits but who goes out and takes a real job, contributes to society and engages in society. And that's what we've seen the integration benefit do. The rapporteur then comes to the question of whether this is contrary to the Convention and so on. In other words, the integration benefit is a form of further development of the start-up aid that we had under the previous Blue Government, and it was tested, as I remember, by the Supreme Court, and there was absolutely nothing to come after. What could be said about the start-up aid and now the integration benefit is, as I have said before, that it has contributed very positively to the fact that massive numbers of people have come into work, and I hope that the rapporteur agrees with me that it is healthy that people get to work and contribute to society instead of sitting at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131048	I agree with the latter, and I think the rapporteur also knows that I think it is a very good idea that we are doing everything we can to integrate people into society and that they also have the opportunity to get out and work. I just don't agree that that very low performance contributes to it. Now the rapporteur himself mentions the start-up aid. After all, what this bill is about is reducing the benefits of integration by a further 3%. Is the rapporteur not at all afraid that this could have social consequences, among other things? for the children of these families in relation to being able to have a dignified child life, if that is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131127	Well, I very much hope that it has social consequences, namely that it has the consequence that there are more people going out and getting a job so that we do not see these parallel societies, ghetto areas, etc., where people who have come here often from non-western countries who do not contribute to the Danish labour market with all the disaster that it causes: children who do not learn properly Danish; parents who do not work; crime. That is all we have to do if we want Danish society to be a homogeneous society in which everyone is actively involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131159	With that, we thank the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to the Enhedslisten, Mr. Jesper Kiel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131214	The bill here contains a serious deterioration in the conditions of some of the most economically disadvantaged and the most vulnerable people in Denmark, our refugees and immigrants. The integration allowance is reduced by 3%, which corresponds to DKK 370. a month for a single parent, 260 kr. a month for a married provider, 185 DKK. for a single resident and 80 kroner. for a resident under 30 years of age. You might think that's not a lot of money if you're the type who likes to spend a few thousand kroner on a pair of new shoes, but it's a lot of money if you're on integration benefit and as a single attempt only gets 12,300 kroner, which poison tries 8,600 kroner. a month, as a single resident, DKr 6,200. DKK 2,660 per month or as a resident under 30 years of age. These are now going to have to have even less money, and one has to ask: is there not a lower limit to desperation? The conversion, which is the second part, of the Danish premium to a bonus is also a clear deterioration. Today you can obtain the supplement if you have acquired some Danish knowledge to a certain extent, and you can then get this benefit every month. From now on, you can only get it for six months. It is positive that those who are then not on public support, as something new can get a tax-free bonus for participating in it, but that does not change the fact that, overall, this is a poverty-building proposal by the government, which of course is supported by the government's support party, which takes particular pride in reducing conditions for refugees and immigrants. We should also point out here, for the sake of good order, that the reduction in the integration allowance also affects Danish nationals who do not meet the requirement to have stayed in Denmark for 7 out of the last 8 years. In my view, the justification is absurd, as usual, when it comes to the deterioration of economic conditions for the unemployed and sick people. It has to pay to work, it's called. As if it could not be done in advance for the people who have such low benefits as are at issue here. Nor should we forget that there is also a large group of these people who are affected who are unable to work because of physical or mental illness. However, in the draft law we have been spared airy calculations of how many people are going to work. It is probably in recognition that it will be difficult to prove that inferior and inferior services bring people to work and that one has not been able to prove that it is generally a tool that works. Particularly around the second part, the change of the Danish supplement, I think it is absurd that a carrot has been hung up for some: If they improve in Danish, they get more money. Many have not actually been able to reach for the carrot because of their educational background or anything else, but those who have now done so are then taken away from the carrot after six months. I think it is highly demotivating for more people to be better at Danish. So what does this contain? There's no one else coming to work. There will be no more prosperity in Denmark. There will be no better use of the resources of the people who come here, but increased poverty and worse integration. Enhedslisten votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131541	Thank you, sir. Jesper Kiel. Then we move forward, and this is Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131556	The draft law we are discussing here follows the agreement for several years on the labour market, which the government and the Danish People's Party signed in June last year, and although the proposal has been criticized, it does not alter the basic position of the Liberal Alliance. Indeed, we are absolutely convinced that a good integration process is taking place with a foot in the labour market. That is why we believe that it is both meaningful and sensible to reduce the rates of integration benefits by the 3% proposed by this proposal. The level of performance has an impact on the incentive and incentive to take a job and become self-supporting, and in the Liberal Alliance we see becoming self-supporting as a natural step in the integration process. The bill also contains a change in the Danish bonus supplement, where there will continue to be an economic incentive to learn Danish, while maintaining the incentive to get to work and contribute to Danish society. It is always good logic to make sure that working pays off. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we are voting in favour of the bill, and that is because we have a very sincere belief that it will mean that even more people enter the labour market for the benefit of the individual as well as for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131713	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Jesper Kiel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131718	I would also like to ask Mrs Laura Lindahl if there is a lower limit. If you think this is going to work, will you just continue to reduce the benefits of integration every year, and then you think that more and more people are going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131734	No, of course there's a lower limit. I think it's obvious there is. I think that when we talk about the level of integration for single non-parents, we are at a lower limit. However, I still think it is important to focus on the fact that we generally have high benefits in Denmark and that it has had some consequences in relation to the fact that the incentive to take a job has not been to the extent that we think it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131807	I'd like to ask you something again. I understand that, for the single non-parents, one thinks that one has now hit the bottom. So how far down to the bottom of the breadwinners? How much longer do they have to go into their services before they think they have an incentive to get jobs? I haven't actually met any refugees yet who don't really want a job. But I still have that for good. But how far down will you push your parents and make even more children poor before you think you've hit the bottom?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131836	I just think we basically disagree on whether we make some poor people with this. With this, even with the 3% reduction, it's still the case that single parents have an amount of more than 10,000 kr. a month, and it is exclusive Danish supplement where you can get 1,500 DKK. tax-free on top. So I don't think you can afford to call a single breadwinner who, after paying water, electricity, heat and rent, and who has a free space in the day care institution, has 10,000 DKK. per month for consumption, for poor. So I disagree with the premise that these people are poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131917	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111131924	Thank you. After all, we are here today to consider a proposal which will reduce the benefits of integration by 3%. and convert the current Danish supplement into a fixed-term Danish bonus and introduce a tax-free Danish bonus to persons who are covered by an integration programme but who do not receive integration benefit. I can start by saying that the alternative cannot vote in favour of the proposal. And the reason for this is that this proposal will further reduce the integration benefit and transform the Danish supplement into a fixed-term Danish bonus. The integration benefit is already considerably lower than other social benefits and, in my view and in my view, has a poverty-creating effect. To this extent, we have no comment on the part of the proposal which concerns the introduction of a tax-free Danish bonus for those who are covered by an integration programme but who do not receive integration benefits. Overall, the alternative is not in favour of the integration service, which is why we also voted against its introduction back in 2015. When a majority in the Danish Parliament decided to introduce the integration service, it was despite strong criticism from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Institute for Human Rights and a large number of NGOs, and in the alternative we are fully in line with that criticism. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has considered that the integration grant does not comply with the provisions of Articles 23 and 24 of the Refugee Convention and with Denmark's other international obligations not to discriminate. When I read the draft law and its comments, I do not see any assessment of whether the proposed provisions are in line with our international obligations. So I would like, when it comes to the Minister's turn, to hear the Minister's assessment of whether the reduction in the benefits of integration corresponds to Denmark's international obligations, particularly our commitment not to discriminate, but also in relation to the criticism made by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in relation to the Convention on Refugees. I think it is important to bear in mind that the people who come here are forced to flee. They do not have the same opportunities to quickly establish themselves in Danish society as other Danish citizens have. And with the integration benefit and the proposed reduction in the benefit, we risk further marginalising refugees in Danish society. That is exactly what the UN High Commissioner for Refugees also points out, namely that this proposal will have a negative impact on integration. This has also been shown in previous studies of the early start-up aid, which the integration benefit is very similar to. Here the conclusion has been that reduced social benefits actually have a poverty-creating effect. And it is my clear position and that of the alternative that the integration of a large group of refugees actually means the opposite of integration, namely exclusion, both for refugees and especially for their children. In 2016, the Rockwool Foundation and Center for Alternative Society Analysis conducted a study of how much it costs to live at an absolute minimum in Denmark. And the amount arrived at corresponds roughly to the cash benefits in force after the ceiling was introduced. But the integration benefit is only about half that. And now you want to further reduce the integration benefit and make the Danish supplement, which is today possible to get throughout the period you receive integration benefit, a fixed-term Danish bonus of 6 months. And this must also be seen in the context of a number of other measures which significantly reduce social benefits for refugees, which are already a very vulnerable and vulnerable group. That is why I think it is appropriate to raise again the question of whether the proposed proposal is in line with the constitutional right to dependent aid, which must meet a certain minimum subsistence level, as the Institute for Human Rights also pointed out when the integration benefit was introduced. And I would also like to hear the Minister's assessment of that. In my view, this proposal only reinforces the poverty-creating effect of the integration benefit. I would add that I certainly believe that the vast majority of refugees who come to Denmark have a strong desire to be able to fend for themselves and become part of Danish society. But here we risk excluding a large group. And we want all people to be treated equally and equally. We cannot therefore vote in favour of a reduction in benefits for a group which is already weaker in economic terms, many of which have been forced to flee and have been subjected to traumatic experiences. Instead, we should create the best conditions for people on the run who come to Denmark to be integrated into Danish society. And we don't think we do that by discrimination. We believe that the benefits of integration must be abolished, and that is also what we have proposed in our own fully funded financial legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111132424	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. The next in line is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111132434	Since the Radical Left rapporteur is unable to attend today's sitting, I shall make the views of the party very brief. As we have already heard from the previous rapporteurs, the draft law is about reducing the benefits currently granted to refugees and other foreigners in order to give them a greater incentive to work and integrate into Danish society. Quote out. It is remarkable that a majority here continues to believe that the current low level of integration can promote integration into the labour market. It is now being reduced by 3%, and we can then consider whether, in the majority of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we believe that this will encourage those affected by it to be 3%. In other words, it has to be called symbolic policy of the worst drawer. And, of course, there are consequences for the current cash benefits ceilings, so they must also keep up with them. What is thought-provoking is that in recent times we have heard members of the Danish People's Party make it clear that we should not attempt at all to integrate refugees into the labour market, but instead to keep them separate from the rest of society and ensure that they are sent home as soon as possible without real connection with Danish society. But maybe it's only for New Year's speeches that you're hearing these things at the moment. This is not a worthy policy towards the most vulnerable people in Denmark. The Radical Left does not believe that poverty, combined with trauma and all the consequences of being a refugee, should survive with its family in extremely difficult conditions before coming to a country such as the United States. Denmark or another European country where you can then try to have another life, another world, is the way to integration into the labour market, and we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111132640	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111132654	We can't support this bill. We believe that this means further impoverishment of people who are already very, very weak and in a very difficult situation. We do not buy the argument that they are entering the labour market. It can therefore be said that it is because of the unholy alliance between the government and the Danish People's Party that this proposal has been put forward and is an additional part of that policy, just as we do not see that it is particularly appropriate for the incentives to learn Danish to be reduced, as is the case here. That is why we believe that this is an extremely bad bill and we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111132755	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then we have reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111132805	Thank you for this, it must be said, a little short debate in this Chamber today. However, much of the criticism of this bill is really about a for or against the integration benefit as such, and my position is quite well known: the high level of benefits has been an obstacle to getting new refugees and immigrants into the labour market because it has simply not paid off to work. And it is basically not fair for me to have access from day one to a roof table of very high Danish welfare benefits. That is why in 2001 we introduced the VK government with strong support from the Danish People's Party start-up and introduction service, which gave a significant boost to employment in the target group. In 2015, the newly joined Left Government then reinstated the start-up aid in the form of an integration grant, and I firmly believe that the integration grant can be given a large part of the credit for the progress that has been made in the employment of refugees here recently. With this bill, we are strengthening the incentive to make an active effort to get to work, because we are confident that it will result in even more people getting to the labour market when the benefit is reduced. Most of them have been used to working and handling themselves where they came from, and so I simply think that we are doing these people a disservice in the original meaning of the word by taking responsibility away from them. The development is exactly in the direction we wanted, because from August 2015 until August 2017 there has been a marked increase in the employment of refugees and family members for refugees from 20 to 36 per cent after being in Denmark for 3 years. The proportion of job preparation has gone from 3%. in January 2016 to 74%; in November 2017. And this seems to me to be a clear confirmation that, for that matter, both the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have been the right way to go, while, of course, a strict immigration policy and also, I would say, a good business environment and a massive corporate focus in the municipalities seem to have created a breeding ground for an improvement in terms of getting these people out into the labour market. I would just like to say that basically one can expect that as long as people are here in Denmark, they will support themselves. It is some of the strongest from the refugee areas that come here. They have all supported themselves before they came here, and therefore we must also expect that when you are in Denmark you will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133117	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and first of all it is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133123	Thank you, Minister. I really wanted to ask you something else, but the speech prompts me to ask you this question: but with that argument, is there any plan in the government to further reduce cash benefits? Because if it is the only thing that causes people to enter the labour market, then that is the right thing to do. Or is it only refugees that we have to suffer an escalation in size?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133152	I really think that is something strange to say when you ask: is it only refugees that we should suffer from cuts in benefits, and now it is here in the integration benefit, but in the benefits in general? Well, for me, there's just another side of that coin. It is about supporting oneself and taking an active part in the labour market. And when Mrs Josephine Fock asks if you could also cut the cash aid, and if that would not be a straight extension, then I would say, of this, I would say: to me there is a huge difference between whether you have just come to the country or whether you have, for example, come to the country. have been born and raised in this country, because if you have just arrived in the country, I simply do not think you should have this great rooftop of welfare benefits that you can then board. I think we should earn it. But the best thing would be to support oneself and that is why we have laid down the benefit that we have laid down, namely that it is very, very quickly worth getting into the labour market instead of sitting at home and not being part of this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133254	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133259	Thank you. I hope that the Minister will agree with me that this is not the only thing that has been put into the world for us to try to get people into the labour market in Denmark. There are, among other things: I also think that integration basic training is a system which guarantees employment. I am of the opinion that it is certainly not the low level of integration that brings people into the labour market. I therefore believe that the refugees who come to Denmark really want to do so. But my question will then actually be whether the Minister does not recognise that the fact that you have fled and may have been traumatized, etc. can also have consequences which mean that you will never be able to do a job, no matter how low the benefit may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133355	I fully acknowledge that there are some who may find it difficult when they come here, and we will take that into account, just as we do for Danes who, for example, do not have the right to vote in local elections. have mental or physical illness. We will take that into account. But we must also bear in mind that it is therefore the most powerful that has come here. The weakest get nowhere at all, they still sit away in Homs or Aleppo and live a wretched life, to the extent that they even survive, so to speak. If you roughly divide it into three groups and take the middle group, the middle group is the one that is in the vicinity, whereas the most powerful are the ones that have arrived here and they have all supported themselves before, and therefore you must support yourself when you come to Denmark. I would also like to say that the integration service is also designed to ensure that we do not become a magnet in relation to coming to Denmark and seeking asylum because our services are high. We can also see that the fact that we have halved the benefits from cash assistance to integration benefits has certainly also had a major impact on the influx to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133501	The next question is Mr. Jesper Kiel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133503	I have two questions. One question is: Now that the Minister of Integration is talking about a roof-top table and this proposal is not about the introduction of the integration benefit, but about further reducing the integration benefit, was the integration benefit a roof-top table? That is my one question. The second question is addressed to this comment rather than sitting at home. In fact, many of the initiatives that have been launched in the field of integration, which are also helping to boost this movement, mean that the refugees are either in language school, in training, in company practice or out with another player or some others who are in the process of integration. How many refugees are at home? I haven't met anyone yet. They go to work every day. They're taking the bus. They're bikes. They deliver their children in day care and show up at work and receive integration benefits to do so and would rather than want a job. How many refugees are at home? I haven't met them yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133600	No, but I fully acknowledge that there are a lot of people in company practice, but I also know that this is one of the things that Enhedslisten often takes a very, very critical view of, because one thinks that they should, like, receive some pay for it. Listen: It is actually helping to get into the labour market that you get something on your CV that you learn Danish. You've come to a country where you get language lessons for free. We have come to a country where we help people to enter the labour market. It's a huge rooftop self-table you've come to. We're helping people from the moment they've come here to go back to their homeland if there's peace. And I actually think that's incredibly nice. And that you also get a social benefit on top of that, I actually think it's really, really nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133645	Sir. Jesper Kiel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133646	If the Minister now acknowledges that the refugees are actually in business practice and are proud of it, should we not stop talking about the way the minister did, that the refugees are sitting at home and that is what the alternative is? Because they're actually at work. Then it's just a matter of how we get them a job they can get paid for. That's what this proposal doesn't answer because they're in business practice. Some of them work really hard, but still away just without getting paid for it. We still find that problematic. There are, of course, some answers to the question of how to create jobs that they actually have access to. Because they come to work every day. Or they go to language school or education. Then we can't stop talking about them sitting at home, 'cause they don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133729	In other words, if this is the biggest problem today, I think it is fine, because then it sounds almost as if Enhedslisten has begun to support the active labour market policy and the performance mix that we have. At least that's news. It surprises me, and I think I heard wrong too. But having said that, it is actually the case that far more people have come to support themselves. And I think we should just acknowledge that it is probably because of a very active labour market policy where we are actually demanding some of these people, among others. participation in company practice. I know that Enhedslisten is against, but also the fact that we have a cash aid ceiling, a 225-hour rule, and that we have some low benefits, means that it pays for work so that you do not sit at home. What if Enhedslisten had been allowed to decide? That would be awful. Then they'd just sit at home. They would never be part of this society. So I am extremely satisfied both with the reduction here, with the labour market policy we are pursuing, and in general, it can be said that the level of performance and the focus we have on the fact that it should not be worthwhile just sitting at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133837	With that, we thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180111133853	There is therefore no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 12 January 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
