ParlaMint-DK_20180523130004	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130009	The first question is to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Dorthe Ullemose from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130020	I give the floor to the author to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130021	Thank you. Does the Minister find it satisfactory that the conditions in Vollsmose in particular are such that the resources for carrying out proper preventive and crime prevention work on the rest of Funen are not optimal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130038	Thank you for the question. I'd like to start by stating that the Funen Police Department is the whole of Funen's police. The police must be there for the citizens in the whole circle and not just in Vollsmose. It is no secret that the police have been very tense in recent years, but with the massive reinforcement of the Danish police, which we have jointly carried out, the officers have now largely returned to the circles. This means that the Funen officers can focus on combating and preventing crime and creating security for citizens on Funen. It's something that's gonna be felt by the whole Funen Police Department. Vollsmose is an area that the police have and must continue to focus on, because we should not close our eyes to the challenges we face there. An area like Vollsmose must not become a hatchery and recruitment base for the gangs. It is a priority to increase security and combat crime, and this is also the reason why, with the government's proposal on parallel societies, we are precisely strengthening police action in the particularly vulnerable residential areas. In this context, we also decided, as part of the government's initiatives against gang crime of August last year, to allocate funds to strengthen the police with approx. 25 new employees for the preventive work in the areas. However, this does not mean that we should not also focus on preventive action everywhere else, both on Funen and in the rest of Denmark. I do not have the opportunity, within the framework of an oral S question, to obtain further information from the National Police on the details on Funen, but I would, of course, very much like to come back to that. If the questioner wishes to put a written question to the committee, it will give me an opportunity to obtain some information and perhaps also spread out a little what the preventive action on Funen really is, because I agree that it is, of course, on the whole of Funen that prevention must take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130225	Mrs. Dorthe Ullemose.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130227	What I hear and experience around the small municipalities of Funen is that it is a major problem that in 2016 local police stations have been closed and instead centralise the emergency police, which now only leaves Odense and Svendborg. Similarly, centralisation has also resulted in the tasks of SSP cooperation being taken away from local police forces, and this has simply resulted in the loss of close police and skilled local land officers, who have taken great care of our young people in the past and have cooperated with the local SSP. The visible presence and involvement in the local community has simply disappeared. As it is now, months may pass before contact with young people in conflict, and because of this long response time, when young people become deeply involved in e.g. Weed abuse or crime before taking action. We have quite visible examples of this in the municipality of Svendborg, where I come from and where we have a strongly growing hash environment and an increase in the number of notifications from worried and powerless parents who contact the municipality. And abuse problems are often the start of a criminal career. I hear that the sale of hashish on the open street is quite obvious, and the police are not here until they come to them, and I think that is very unfortunate in relation to the early efforts and the preventive work. I just want to know whether the Minister shares this concern and also whether the Minister also sees it as a problem that there has been too much progress between citizens and the police and that SSP cooperation has also deteriorated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130423	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130424	There are a lot of good things in it that the questioner brings with him these are things that I think are very, very interesting to discuss. Because it is precisely the hop in the challenge we have faced in recent years, with the police who have had to do more and more, and with the fact that we have lacked officers. Now we are training some more, so that is why we are on the right track. That is also why I have put this initiative in the sea, which is about how we get closer to the police, how we get closer to the citizens, and we will also discuss this in the police conciliation circle. Because in a situation where we now have more officers, we have to think carefully about how they are to be used, and if it is up to me, we need to find a way to bring the police closer to the citizens. I'd like to answer a lot more, but I can't make it because I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130506	Mrs. Dorthe Ullemose.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130507	In the past, SSP cooperation has worked quite impeccably, where school, municipality and police, like went hand in hand, went in with rapid action, and where there were people out in the field who could quickly spot these young people who were going into crime. There, the child and the parents were quickly grabbed and such a concern conversation started. It has some effect when a police officer in uniform comes and knocks on at home and makes a distress conversation with a child and parents. It makes them suddenly change tracks away from an unlucky direction. I would like to ask the Minister whether he might be able to contact the National Police Commissioner and recommend a change in structure in relation to SSP cooperation. It could be like South and South Jutland, where the advantage of locally anchored land officers has been recognised and where it has been maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130608	I would remind you that it is only 30 seconds that are in the follow-up questions. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130612	Thank you. Well, we are currently discussing a new approach to juvenile delinquency, also with the author's party. Part of the initiative of the government is precisely a new framework for SSP cooperation. I think it is really, really important that we get it on the right track. I fully agree that it has a meaning when someone in a blue shirt knocks and makes a concern conversation with these young people. So I have a hope that we will get the country those negotiations and we can move forward along that path. And then I would like to call for a written question on all of this so that I can explain a little more about the broad action on Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130651	Mrs Dorthe Ullemose to conclude the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130652	I am pleased to hear that, because I think it is imperative to open up opportunities to increase the local SSP effort in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130704	I shall look forward to discussing this further. I think it is really important that with the challenge the police have faced in recent years, we just have to recognise that some things have been affected. Because when the cops have been used for something else, there's something they haven't been able to do, and I don't think the cops have been really sorry about that. The new extra police we have agreed to have over a four-year period is, after all, about what corresponds to the total force on Funen. So it's gonna feel like there's gonna be more cops coming. I look forward very much to discussing this further, including with the author's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130737	Thank you to Mrs Dorthe Ullemose, the questioner, and to the Minister of Justice. We move on to the next question, which is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and this is asked by Mrs Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130749	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130753	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that in the municipality of Elsinore one can only stand up, elect and vote for an integration council if one has a foreign background?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523130808	Now I don't have an exact knowledge of the municipality of Elsinore in this field, but I can generally say that the municipalities can set up integration councils if they think it makes sense to organise the best possible integration efforts in the municipality. It's an option, but it's not something you have to do. Personally, I believe that the integration councils should be set up to provide the best possible framework for the dialogue between the municipality and, of course, also the ethnic minorities that are now in the municipality, but also other stakeholders in this area. That is why, of course, it is quite natural that citizens from the target group should be included in an integration council, because it can provide special access to both knowledge and also knowledge about the challenges of integration that are now present. However, in my view, there must of course also be room for other citizens who will contribute precisely to integration around the municipalities. I think it is important to stress that the councils cannot be elected by means of binding elections, but that the councils are appointed by the municipal council, and if a municipality wishes to hold an election, then according to the rules in force, it has only an advisory function, because it is only the municipal council that is responsible for, and also the decision-making power to appoint who is to sit in the integration councils. I think that's really good. Having said that, there is also the intention that it is not the municipality's responsibility to integrate, it is the individual's responsibility. As I also indicated a few weeks ago when the questioner asked a question about the same legislation, I think it is time for Mrs Marlene Harpsøe to give this area a service check, and I have got the officials working on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131031	I am, of course, pleased to hear that the Minister has asked the officials to do a service check on this area, so thank you for that first and foremost. In principle, I and the Danish People's Party believe that it is quite wrong that one should have a foreign background in order to be elected to an integration council, which is the context one has chosen in Helsingør Municipality in order to be elected to an integration council. I think it is actually quite undemocratic to say that we have a Danish society and we have some Danish rules where it is that we should like to be elected on equal terms, whether you are a man or a woman, or whatever ethnic background you have. I think that is contrary to that democracy, but also to the integration that we attach importance to in the bourgeois majority here in the Danish Parliament to say that if you come to Denmark, you have a great job to do in integrating and that there is no difference between whether you have a background as a Danish-born or whether you come from abroad. That is where I think that the structure chosen in Elsinore does away with what we want here at Christiansborg, precisely a democratic way of entering into an equal footing and where, when you run for one election or another, you can run for it, whether you were born in one country or another. Of course, if you run for parliament, you must have Danish citizenship, etc. But it creates such an idea that one actually supports such mini-parallel societies, because that is what one can say in a bold way the integration councils are. It is, of course, small mini-paral communities, if you only have ethnic origins other than Danish, if you are running and being elected for this, and the Minister also shows that recognition, as I hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131238	On the contrary, I think, as I said just now, that there should certainly be room for others who have interests in the area when it comes to integration councils. I certainly think so. As I also mentioned, it is not something you are elected for. It is possible to hold an election, but it is purely indicative, and it is the municipal council that will appoint the integration councils at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131304	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131306	We can see from the municipality of Elsinore that this is something where there is no room for everyone, and in the construction that you have in the municipality of Elsinore you have chosen to say that we hold elections for integration councils, and the people who are running have ethnic origins other than Danish, the people who have to vote also have ethnic origins other than Danish. So that means that people who were born and raised in Denmark are completely excluded from participating in this election, although one must say that it might also be that ordinary Danes who were born and raised here in Denmark could have an attitude to it and could contribute positively in an integration council. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131344	I fully agree with that, and that is also why I have the answer, as I have, that I certainly also think there should be room for others, and I would therefore urge the Danish People's Party to raise it precisely with the municipality of Elsinore. After all, there are also members of the Danish People's Party in the municipal council.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131402	The questioner on the final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131404	I agree with that, and we have also done so in the Danish People's Party in Elsinore City Council, but now I stand here before the Minister, and I think the Minister is today expressing a rather vague attitude towards this. The minister says, on the one hand, it's not okay that it works this way. But on the other hand, the Minister says: I will do nothing about that. Why will the Minister, like the hardliner in Danish foreign policy, not do anything about this area if there is a real problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131430	It is because it is Helsingør Municipality's right to appoint who they want in their integration council. I can of course have an opinion that it is important that there is room for everyone who has an interest in this and, above all, that integration is not about it being a municipal task, but it is the individual's job to be integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131451	That concludes the question. We thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and move on to the next question. It is also addressed to the Minister for Health by Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131501	Mrs Marlene Harpsøe for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131504	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the future super hospital in Hillerød will be built without a production kitchen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131514	Thank you for the question. I think we agree that it is important that patients in the new hospitals, not least weakened patients with limited appetites, receive good and varied high-quality food. It is the regions which are responsible for prioritising within the fixed budget framework of each building project, as established by the panel of experts on hospital investment. At the new hospital in Hillerød, the Capital Region of Denmark has chosen to establish reception kitchens and get the food delivered from the outside. It will probably be from the region's kitchen at Herlev Hospital. The region could have chosen to set up a production kitchen within the total budget of 4.5 billion. kr. It is the region's decision not to do so and instead to use the existing kitchen capacity in the region. What I am interested in is how the regions ensure that the quality fund buildings comply with the budgets, so that we both ensure that new modern hospitals come up, which can receive and treat patients, but also ensure that the food offered helps patients recover quickly. And it is in this connection the decision of the Capital Region that the new Hillerød Hospital should receive the food from the outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131632	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131633	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's nice that we agree that this wholesome and nutritious food is important. But I still lack a little hope on the part of the Minister, no, it is probably more hope on my part that the Minister will also take part in a constructive talk about whether this framework, which has been introduced in relation to the budget for the new super hospital, is not too narrow. Because we have a regional council in the Capital Region, which, as such, has the money for it and would like to build this kitchen, but one is in a situation where the question is whether, with the budget that has been laid down, you have to lay down even more beds, which are already lacking, or whether you have to take this kitchen. That's the reality. They also hear about the pressure on the municipalities in these times, especially in relation to elderly medical patients who are being discharged far too early because there is pressure in hospitals. They then come out to the municipality to take care of them, but are soon sent back again because you simply experience that they have been released too quickly, and that means a re-hospitation. And we can only end up in that situation again if, as the Minister says, the Capital Region can simply find the money in its own budget within the construction framework, that is, when we know that this means that the number of beds will only be reduced further. So I just think it's really, really boring to experience how we raise this case time and again and nothing comes of it. I hope the Minister will recognise that the construction framework in this area is to build a super hospital without a production kitchen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131836	The construction framework is 4.5 billion. kr., and I have to say it's a lot of money. There are also other regions that have built hospitals where the economy for production kitchens can be found, if that is what the region has chosen to prioritise. That is not what the Capital Region has chosen to prioritise in Hillerød, and that is the decision of the Capital Region. I have also replied to the Capital Region and also to the municipalities in the North Zealand: yes, the region can give priority to this within the budgetary framework. It is, in fact, a regional decision. Now the questioner may be interfering with many things. You can choose as a region to find the funds in the budget and prioritise it within the project. An option can also be drawn up as a region for the establishment of a kitchen which can be redeemed later in the project if there are no funds available. In addition, I also have to say that the studies that have been carried out show that if the reception kitchen facilities are otherwise good and you have a proper concept, then there is no difference in quality depending on whether you have a production facility on the spot or have it elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131936	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523131938	It is, of course, a good thing that the regional council politicians are thinking long-term, because they really want that production kitchen. But you can then see, as the financial framework is today, that there is now going to be a super hospital built in Hillerød with a reception and appetizer kitchen, because you want the production kitchen, which then actually drives over a bulldozer, you can say in a bold way, i.e. when you want to build this production kitchen. Does the Minister think there is any logic in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132013	There are sometimes things going on in the Capital Region, in which I see no logic, but it is the elected politicians of the Capital Region who are also set to manage the health budget of really, very many billion kroner. And when we talk about the construction budget in relation to the whole new hospital in Hillerød, we are talking about a construction envelope of 4.5 billion. kr., and it is the Capital Region that has the task of prioritising. I understand that I have also replied to the municipalities that the desire for a production kitchen is raised, including by some of the members of the Regional Council. And this can then be decided in the region, that is to say, the choice of budgeting within the framework, as has been made in other regions. That is the task of the Capital Region.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132058	Mrs Marlene Harpsøe to conclude the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132100	I feel that the discussion here with the Minister is a little like knocking your head into a wall, and I do not see at all that there is any hand to the super-sickhouse in Hillerød, at least not on the basis of what the Minister says. I think it is really, really boring that this is the wish of the government: to hold on to this issue completely, even though it is actually very little money compared to the overall construction project one would like to release to be able to set up this kitchen right now, for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132137	I do not know whether the questioner did not hear what I said, so I would like to repeat it. The Capital Region can build a production kitchen at Hillerød Hospital. I personally think that this could be a good idea, and I have also answered that both the municipalities and the region. It is the Capital Region that decides whether or not to have it within the budgetary framework of the hospital. The Capital Region did not want that. I am not the one who has made that decision; it is not the government that has made that decision, but the Capital Region. If the Capital Region wants a production kitchen at Hillerød Hospital, you can make a production kitchen within the budget framework for the building. I think that is important to say, because the questioner keeps saying that it is some others who have made that decision. No, it is not, it is clearly the Capital Region that has decided that there should not be a production kitchen at the new Hillerød Hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132223	The question is closed. We thank the Minister and we thank the honourable Member. The next question goes to the Minister for Education, and that is what Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132233	I'll give it to you, sir. Rasmus Prehn the word for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132237	Thank you, President. If the Minister considers that there is a need for new measures to ensure that more people are trained in the plumbing industry, where one in four firms in North Jutland, which need a plumbing apprentice, considers that it is difficult to obtain an apprentice, cf. TV2 Nords artikel • Akut lack of nordjyske vvs-learlinge • 17 May 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132259	The minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132301	Thank you very much. And thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn for the question. I am very concerned about how we get more people to choose a vocational training course. Access to skilled labour is important to ensure that companies can obtain the labour they require, both in the short and long term. The Government has not changed the ambition that more young people should choose vocational training. The reform of vocational training set a target of 25 per cent. of the pupils in 2020 must choose a vocational training course directly after the 9th or 10th grade. This year, for the first time in several years, the search for vocational training has increased, so there is now 19.4%. of pupils from the 9th or 10th classes who choose a vocational training course. But it's still too few. Region Nordjylland is at the forefront of drawing the average, as the search in the region is 24.2%. and thus the region of the country with the highest average search figure. This is to be compared with the fact that there are municipalities, for example. in North Zealand, where less than 5% of the population are in the North Sea. of primary school pupils seeking vocational training. It is a major change in culture to challenge young people in their educational choices, so that they go against vocational training and not per year. automatic chooses a secondary education. An important element in changing the search is the possibility of completing the training as an eux training, i.e.: to achieve both professional and study competence. And that option is also available on the plumbing energy training. There is an increase in the number of pupils who choose an eux. It is my hope and expectation that it will also make progress on a plumbing energy education. Education is central to ensuring that more young people choose vocational training and that is why we are today opening discussions in the public school circle on how to strengthen the practice of training. From August onwards, we will also introduce a new practical dimension to the training preparation assessment, which will ensure attention to the practical skills of pupils. The Danish Government and the Danish People's Party have agreed with the Danish Finance Act for 2018 to follow developments in the field of vocational training closely in order to assess whether further initiatives are needed to strengthen vocational training, in view of the stagnating search from the primary school and the decreasing approach overall. The Government has therefore decided to initiate an analysis of the search for vocational training, including local variation in search patterns as well as challenges and opportunities in training, e.g.: in relation to the practice of teaching. In addition, the importance of counselling for various municipal 10th-class services as well as bridge-building and practice-oriented activities in training is examined. Once the analyses have been completed, we will have a better basis for taking stock and discussing what we can do to increase the search for vocational training, including the plumbing energy training. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the tripartite agreement of 2016 introduced preferential courses, which are courses where there are particularly good opportunities to get internship and jobs. The plumbing energy programme has been identified as a benefit programme in 2017 and 2018, and I expect that it will make more people realise that the plumbing energy programme is an attractive education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132609	I would remind you that we should like to keep to the speaking time. When the President gets up, it's not just for exercise. It is also because the speaking time has been exhausted. Now it's sir. Rasmus Prehn for 2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132620	Thank you very much to the Minister for this long answer. There is no doubt that the government and the Minister are talking a lot about this issue. There is talk of wanting to do more to get young people to take a vocational education. That is also needed, because we can see that there will be a huge lack of it. The Minister then mentions in his reply that it is actually the case that in North Jutland people are so fortunate that in percentage terms more people choose vocational training than there are elsewhere. We're happy about that in North Jutland. But doesn't it say a lot about how wrong it is when what we're dealing with here is based on a story from TV2 Nord about acute lack of North Jutland plumbing apprentices? Here we are talking about the fact that one in four companies is without the apprentices they need. And the vice-chairman of what is called TEKNIQ-råd Nordjylland, Morten Fals, says that in the long run it can become a serious obstacle to the positive development of the North Jutland plumbing companies. Point 1: If you experience these problems in North Jutland, where otherwise it looks best in percentage terms, and where you are best at getting young people to take a vocational training course, it tells you something about how wrong it is with this problem. Can't the Minister agree with me? Point 2: Hasn't the Minister and the government even considered whether it's going to go beyond all this talk and conversation and dialogue and studies, etc. After all, it is 2% that you are asked to prioritise away every year. I think we all agree that it can be healthy and good that we sometimes tighten up and prioritise better, but if it is year after year, it will start to hurt. Can the Minister rule out the fact that this very hard course towards the 2-pct-saving education system will have a negative effect on this too, so that one in four companies is left without the apprentices they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132837	First, I can deny that it has been year after year. It's a pretty short period of time where there's been this 2-percent requirement. But having said that, I would like to start by saying that you are doing well in North Jutland. In other words, one is good at attracting pupils to vocational training; it is a wonderful area. I met the rapporteur in the area very recently during Kristi's ascension. This is an area in which students can also be attracted to opportunities that may come from other areas. Perhaps there are students who attend a school in the vicinity of Aalborg, who could be interested in some of the exciting opportunities that are in the benefit programmes in your area or further down in Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132924	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523132925	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your visit to the Sindal Market. After all, it was a real pleasure to have the Minister of Education there, even in the Social Democratic penance. It was really something that wanted something. The minister says it is wrong that it is year after year. In other words, I have an overview of the savings on vocational training in North Jutland, where 300 million will have to be saved in the years ahead. kr. But there it is in 2016 just at Aalborg Technical School 6,9 million. DKK 13,3 million in 2017. DKK, and in 2018 it is 19.8 million. kr. And then there are the years ahead. It must be year after year. That's what the numbers here show, that you have to save. Can the Minister completely rule out the fact that the money is involved in how attractive it is to go on these courses?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133009	I'm just saying in all modesty. Now I have not seen the figures available to the rapporteur. But at least you have to remember to keep things separate. What is it about how many pupils attend school, and what is it about priority contributions? That's all I'm saying. It is important to call things by their right name. But again, I want to hold on to the very good opportunities one has in North Jutland. There are benefit programmes. Ve's is a benefit education. There are some options. There are companies that want to attract students. Then it acts among other things. on making students and young people aware of the opportunities, because there are also some young people here who are missing an opportunity. This should also be borne in mind in the discussion we have about vocational schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133049	Sir. Rasmus Prehn for an end to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133050	Thank you. When I mention the economic issue, it is because it is one of the things we hear from, among other things. Some of the students themselves, namely that when you come to tools and equipment that are 20-30 years old, it helps to make it less attractive. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have said that when it comes to vocational training, we want to stop this re-priority contribution. However, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister highlights a lot of positive things that are also with new training measures, so that we can use the issue here in the Chamber to make it an advertisement for young people out there that there are exciting training courses in vocational schools and that there are good opportunities also in the plumbing sector. There are also good opportunities to get jobs and also get very well paid jobs. In fact, I understand from this Morten Fals that it is now more well paid to be plumber than it is, for example. to be an electrician. So for the kids, it's just about getting in and taking these educations. So thank you to the Minister for that invitation. I hope that the Minister will also consider the matter of the economy. So it could make it a little better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133151	The minister for the final 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133153	Thank you. I am working hard to qualify the way in which the teaching is carried out in particular in the school to show to the students that many of these subjects have developed enormously, so that such a thing as the plumbing profession is a high-tech subject in which there are a lot of exciting opportunities. And qualifying teaching is also about teachers understanding what these subjects look like now; that parents understand what these subjects look like now. In this way, you will have a much better basis for counseling young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133227	The question is closed. We thank the Minister for Education. We move on to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, where Mr. Rasmus Prehn has also asked questions. The minister is ready, and that's sir. Prehn too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133243	I'll give it to you, sir. Rasmus Prehn the word for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133246	Thank you very much, President. Does the Minister believe that there is a need for measures to ensure that truck drivers and hauliers comply with the rules on driving rest time, cf. TV MIDTVEST's coverage of this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133258	The minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133259	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to stress that it is, of course, highly questionable when drivers drive up to almost 60 hours without a longer rest. This poses a great danger to road safety, and it is by no means acceptable. As I understand the case raised by TV MIDTVEST, these are drivers who drive very long journeys which are exempt from the rules on driving rest time. There are a number of exceptions in the driving-rest-time regulation, which are both compulsory and optional national derogations. In Denmark we have chosen to introduce all the possible national exemptions so as not to put Danish companies at a disadvantage compared with their foreign competitors. When driving, which is exempt from the driving-rest-time rules, there is, of course, no obligation to comply with these rules. Therefore, tightening controls on compliance with the rules on driving time will not help the problem here. Although the rules on driving-rest-time do not apply when driving without driving, the rules on working time must be complied with, and I note that the Minister for Employment is proposing that there should be greater monitoring efforts in this area. What we can check in the driving-rest-time area is whether the runs that companies claim to be exempted from the driving-rest-time rules actually fall within one of the exceptions. I know that this is something that both the Danish Trade Administration and the police focus on in their control of the driving-rest-time rules. On the basis of what has emerged in TV MIDTVEST's coverage, I would like to hear from the Danish Trade Administration whether there is anything we can do to tighten up the controls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133441	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133442	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply and statement in this area. TV MIDTVEST has done a great deal of work to uncover this problem, and you also follow some drivers who are driving outside of the regular driving-rest-time system. They're driving except driving. But that is why, as the Minister has said, they still have to comply with the working time rules. And what they are saying is that they simply find that the fact that you are not covered by the ordinary driving-rest-time regulations actually means that they are going to run inappropriately much and that they are running yes, 40-50 hours largely without any rest of importance. There is a quote that I think makes a certain impression and that TV MIDTVEST has with it. It is an anonymous driver who expresses how you feel after a very long trip. He says: "You can feel, for example, after a long ride that when you jump out of the car, the legs are like this "ouch··. " Well, it really hurts, you find it difficult to keep your balance, and you might get a little disoriented. It is extremely unfair to the driver in question whose health is being pressured quite unfairly, but it is also dangerous to the rest of us in traffic when such situations arise. And there is just the fact that if there was a more extensive heavy duty vehicle control, where it was not only looked at with the driving-rest-time rules, but where working time could also be controlled, that is to say, that the working time directive is being complied with, you could stop some of this. The Minister may then say in his reply that he understands from the Minister for Employment that something is now going to happen. However, can the Minister not confirm that, in this way, it is the current government which, through various financial laws, has downgraded the efforts that were otherwise prioritized under the Socialist Government, namely heavy duty vehicle control, where the police are out and controlling this in order to provide security for all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133645	If sir... Rasmus Prehn wants to see driving-rest-time rules applied to several journeys in Denmark, so it is a political point of view that one can have, but I can see that it is not a political point of view that has been pursued in the social democratic governments. So I assume that the Social Democratic Party believes that we should have the exceptions to the driving-rest-time rules that we have today. Otherwise, we have lost a chance to do something about it. So what applies here in the field of non-driving is the rules on working time. They are enforced by the Ministry of Employment and I am quite confident that the Minister for Employment is now taking action so that we can get on better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133730	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133731	This is precisely with the focus on compliance with the working time rules, which also applies to those drivers who are exempt from the driving rest-time regulations. That's the focus I have. We Social Democrats have not proposed to make up for the exceptions that exist. Among other things, if you ride with fish. There it may be inappropriate if it is the case that you have to keep some rest, which means that the fish you drive end up being corrupted. So there are some logical reasons why something has been excluded from the driving-rest-time regulations. But the rules on working time still have to be observed, and that is the focus we have. And there we would be pleased if the minister in this Chamber could confirm that he will take the initiative that we follow this closely and perhaps sit together across the parties and try to look at what we can do to follow up on this so that we do not end up in unsafe traffic and drivers who have a bad working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133820	I note that the Minister for Employment, who is responsible for monitoring the rules on working time, has already said that an additional effort must be made here. And if you want to ask whether that effort is at one or the other or the third level, and whether that is enough or whether more is needed, then I would recommend that you ask the Minister for Employment about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133842	Sir. Rasmus Prehn to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133843	Well, thank you for that call. For us, what is important is not whether it is one minister or another. The important thing is that something is happening in this area, and I still think that the Minister owes us an answer to that with the downgrade of heavy duty vehicle controls. Is it not the case that the current government has downgraded the police's focus on heavy duty vehicle control so that some of these mistakes are no longer detected, which they were before?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133912	After all, I am neither the Minister for Justice nor the Minister for Employment, so I am not aware of whether the Ministry of Justice has downgraded controls on heavy goods vehicles or whether they have been downgraded in the Ministry of Employment. I note that it is the Minister for Employment who is responsible for monitoring the working time rules. And then I think, sir. Rasmus Prehn must have gradually learned how it works here in the Parliament he has been here for many years, namely that you ask your questions to the minister who has to do with the matter, because the minister is the one who best knows what is going on in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523133946	That concludes the question. We thank the Minister and we thank him. Rasmus Prehn. We move on to Question 6, which has been addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Food by Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134001	It's first, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134004	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable to have a 91⁄2 year duration, as has been the case in the case of Knudshoved Harbour, and if so, what does the Minister intend to do to reduce the duration of proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134017	Thank you for the question. I think that I reacted in the same way as the questioner when I heard about it. It is important that citizens and businesses experience effective processing, even when they are in contact with my ministry, and a reasonable processing time. It is true that more than 9 years have passed since the first initiative to establish a marina in the old ferry rental at Nyborg was taken. It may therefore seem like a very long process, but things are not always quite so simple. The process has consisted of a total of three separate applications. The Coastal Directorate has been continuously in dialogue with the applicant and has examined the information and taken decisions in the three different applications. In February 2009, the Coastal Directorate received the first application for a basic permit for the project and it was granted in 2012. In 2010, the investor submitted a new and more concrete application with a request for a marina with 1,000 boat seats. In 2014, the establishment of a 500-plot marina is authorised on the grounds that the project area is located in a Natura 2000 area. In 2015, a marina with 2,800 seats is applied for. This is where the Coastal Directorate has last decided on the matter in December 2017, where the Coastal Directorate authorised the establishment of the marina. However, the decision was challenged in January of this year and is currently pending before the Environmental and Food Complaints Board. I cannot therefore go into this specific complaint in detail. In all three applications, decisions have been challenged each time, which, of course, extends the overall course of proceedings. The Marina is requested to be located in an area covered by conservation, and the case has therefore been dealt with initially in the Conservation Board prior to the processing in the Coastal Directorate. In addition, the affected area in Storebælt is one of Denmark's most important areas for guinea pigs and is designated as an international Natura 2000 site, including: to protect and ensure reported guinea pigs. This means that the marina must be built in an area where one of Denmark's largest deposits of porpoises lives. This does not mean that a marina cannot be realized, but it means that it is important to carry out thorough investigations into the consequences of creating a marina right there. The Coastal Directorate has a strong focus on continuously selecting the task solution, including seeking to reduce the processing time, and emphasizes an approach that is actively working to find solutions with the applicant. This may sometimes mean that the overall process takes longer. On the other hand, the aim is that it should result in more realistic projects. Against this background, overall, I believe that in this particular case the length of the proceedings has been reasonable due to the different application processes which I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134329	I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party HansenChristian-Democratic Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134331	I would like to thank the Minister for his statement of the nature of the matter. I note, of course, that the Minister does not wish to go into detail on this particular matter, but nevertheless lists a great deal of detail from the matter. My question here, of course, is based on the specific case, but it is more of a matter of principle, and that is the question of a procedural period of more than nine years. That's what I'm trying to get the Minister to acknowledge is not fair. I had hoped the Minister would agree with me on that, but I do not hear it that way. I have a clear view that the applicants have not seen this process as particularly appropriate. My impression is that they do not think that it is reasonable to have nine years of proceedings, not least on the basis of what we might call them, of the facts that have arisen in the course of the proceedings. But rather than talking about guinea pigs and marinas and boat seats, I would rather lift it up a little higher, and I would like the Minister to admit that this processing time is not acceptable either for a citizen or for a company in this case. And I would still like to hear what the Minister intends to do to ensure that in future companies and citizens do not find themselves in the same situation on the day you want to have a warehouse built, you can expect a 10-year processing time; the day you want to get a living room at your house, it is 3 years processing time. The Minister can't think that's fair. I would like to hear some more sharp comments on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134503	Thank you for the follow-up comments here. That is why I started by saying that, from the point of view of principle, I agree with Mr McMahon. Claus Kvist Hansen when he says it can't fit with such a long period. That's why I'm describing the course of the case. The case that I do not want to deal with is the pending complaint, which is now under way. But when I outline the whole course of the matter, it is to outline that there are three different cases involving a number of different bodies involved. Of course, in the Coastal Directorate, efforts are being made to provide rapid answers, especially because some of the questions you get in that directorate are strongly linked to the seasons, which our use of the coasts in this country often is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134545	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134547	Well, I still don't think we've come to the conclusion that the Minister recognizes that this isn't good enough. We have an interaction between a group of investors, and then we have two or three authorities involved in the matter, and then we also have some EU law that, like, interferes with this matter. I fully agree with and fully understand that the matter is complicated. But 91⁄2 years is simply too long for anyone to wait for a decision. I am not really so concerned about whether this is a decision that goes in one direction or the other. But all citizens and companies are entitled to have their cases dealt with within a reasonable time, and that is not 91⁄2 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134632	No, and that is what I was trying to say. I agree with the questioner. There must be clarity in the time one can reasonably expect to have to wait. But this isn't one case. That is why I started by outlining that there are three different cases, which also have a complexity. Therefore, the processing time must still be reasonable, regardless of the type of response received. But for me, there is also something about the fact that it may often be more important to get the right answer than the quick answer, because in many cases the quick answer will be a blank rejection if you have doubts. I really would rather that the doubt would benefit such a project.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134714	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen with a final remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134716	I would like the Minister to reassure the Danish People's Party a little bit by at least saying that this matter will be decided in some way soon and that action will be taken to ensure that we do not see such matters in the future. I would like an indication that such a complex issue here will not leave the citizen and, in this case, the investor group with the ultimate responsibility to be able to lift as heavy a burden as it has proved to be. I would like to hear the Minister say a few positive words about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134748	As far as the complaint itself is concerned, it is pending in a body over which I do not have the authority to instruct, so I do not want to interfere, in other words, with the division of power. However, we fully share the view that whether you are a private person or a private undertaking or a public undertaking for that matter in this country, you are entitled to a reasonably rapid procedure. That is why I say that we must constantly focus on that, and I must also have that in my ministry, I must ensure that my ministry, and what lies below, also has, because we as citizens of Denmark deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134828	That concludes the question. But we will keep both the Minister and the questioner, since the next question has also been put to the Minister for the Environment and Food, and also by Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134838	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134840	Thank you. In the light of a specific case from the Municipality of Randers, does the Minister consider that the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act on protected lines for protected ancient monuments are up-to-date and are otherwise properly administered and, if not, will the Minister take steps to change them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523134854	Thank you for the question. I was curious if the questioner could hold the mask, as it was about the memory of the past and the timer, but it succeeded it was impressive. I've seen the case in the press about this illegal half-ag that the owner has to remove because it's built without permission too close to a burial mound. There are, of course, several points of view, and I just have to say that yes, I believe that the protection of our cultural heritage is important. It also applies to the protection of our ancient memories and their surroundings, whether it is an ancient mound, whether it is a castle plant, whether it is castle ruins I think it is important. The ancient monuments, protected by the Museum Law, should not be hidden behind settlement and planting. The purpose of the rules is to ensure the value of the ancient monuments as elements of the landscape and the archaeological close to the ancient monuments. That is why we have a protection zone around ancient memories that we have had for many years, where you cannot build up and where you cannot plant trees. A few years ago, as a follow-up to the agreement on a better balance sheet for Denmark, a service check was carried out by the municipalities' administration of several of the protection lines in the Nature Conservation Act, including the past memory line, and the study showed that the administration of the municipalities is appropriate and that, fortunately, complaints are rarely made. The municipal council can grant derogations from the ban in specific cases, and I have no reason to question whether the municipalities and the Environmental and Food Complaints Board administer the rules appropriately. I can mention that the government has no plans to change the rules on the protection line on ancient memories.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135043	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135044	Thank you for a relatively clear answer, despite the fact that we have moved into a question about the past. The Minister believes that appropriate management is being carried out, and the Minister is also very concerned that we should preserve our cultural heritage and protect it with insight and vision, and how otherwise it is described in the Nature Conservation Act. But, on the other hand, there is, first of all, a general exemption for possible construction sites closer to 100 m, and secondly, there is also the possibility of reducing the protection line, in other words, where the zone around the ancient memory is generally reduced. So it seems to me that one recognizes that, for example, settlements, constructions, urban development play a major role and that therefore one should simply have an opportunity to approach in this case the burial mounds, and on that basis I think it is particularly strange that in a specific case one is not able to cut or stab in. And I agree that we should not discuss specific matters, I fully agree with that, but, on the one hand, the law says that there are in fact two possibilities for us to ignore the protection line and, on the other hand, very, very, very hard management is being carried out in which individual citizens are then caught. I think that is strange, and I hope the Minister will have a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135202	I certainly have, because I can easily follow the intention of the author of the question that, since there is a possibility of dispensing with the rules, should we not take advantage of that possibility? That's how I hear the question. It has to be said that, at the same time, the possibility of dispensing implies the possibility of refraining from dispensing. We have a general rule and then we have the possibility of making exceptions, and that is where you go in concrete and assess in the individual case: do we think it is reasonable to do another practice here? And that was not the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135236	Then we will probably not get any further in general terms in our discussion on a specific issue which we do not want to discuss on the basis of, and that is, in fact, fair enough. However, I should also like to make a small comment. I noted that the Minister said that we must safeguard our ancient memories and that we must do so very bastantly. This is somewhat contrary to what the Minister's colleague from Randers, Michael Aastrup Jensen, says at some point in general terms on this matter, because he says that there should be a possibility of some of these burial mounds being simply levelled down. I want to know if the Minister shares that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135310	The Minister doesn't. I believe that burial mounds and other ancient memories are an important part of our cultural heritage. I believe that the mark our ancestors put on our country helps to remind us of who we are today, why we are here today. We need to remember that from time to time. That's what makes people go to war and risk their lives for this country. These are the values that are scattered around, among others. in burial mounds, in the kingdom of Denmark. I'm proud of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135337	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen to close the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135339	I think that the end was as if it were taken directly out of the Danish People's Party's mouth. I am glad to hear that, but at the same time I hope that the Minister will take it with him that there are people who get into trouble; there are people who feel run over by the system by chance and they are protecting a consideration which they simply find difficult to see in the specific case. And I hope that at some point the Minister will help to ease the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135405	Then the Minister will have the last word.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135406	Well, the message has been received, especially what I assume was a commendable remark about my small, highly-voted feature before, but I think that our cultural heritage is of great value. I also think that people in today's Denmark have an extremely high value, but it is we who are alive today that must carry the country forward, so balanced consideration must be given to this. I'm just saying, our ancient memories - once we remove them, they never come back, and they remind us of something that we should remember every day, especially those of us who sit in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135441	That concludes the question. We thank the Minister and we thank the honourable Member. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135452	The debate is open and I will start by giving the floor to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523135526	Thank you so much. The motion for a resolution, B 109, will oblige the government by 1 January 2019 at the latest to require municipalities that citizens with a mental illness living in their own homes have easy access to a social emergency offer, and it is proposed that all municipalities, with the exception of the very least, be obliged to establish social emergency services for people in acute mental crisis who have 24 hours a day and have an emergency telephone, accommodation and an outbound function. The proposers estimate that the proposal will cost approximately 230 million. kr. the first year and 205 million. kr. Every year after establishment and they propose to finance the proposal by reintroducing a compensatory tax on pension payments. I would like to start by saying that I think this is a very sympathetic proposal, which has some very good intentions behind it. It is important that people with mental disorders get the right help to get by in their own homes and that they thrive there. I also share the pleasure that the social emergency services that have been tested and widely used with funding from the rate pool have shown good results and have helped a great many people who have had a hard time when they have experienced acute psychological crises. However, there are a number of factors which make it impossible for the government to support the proposal to oblige municipalities to set up social emergency services. The projects with the testing and dissemination of social emergency services have shown good results, and therefore a unanimous Parliament has also ensured that a legal framework has been established so that all municipalities can set up social emergency services in cooperation with other municipalities, regions and private suppliers. The possibility of creating the social emergency services therefore came into force on 1 January of this year, and a number of municipalities are already in full swing. Among other things: The vast majority of municipalities, which have been part of the emergency-offer investment pool projects, have chosen to continue the emergency-offer after the completion of the project, and the five municipalities involved in the first test, which was part of the 2008 rate pool agreement, still have emergency offers. The Social Protection Agency is aware that a total of 18 municipalities today have or are considering the creation of emergency services. This shows that the municipalities can easily make emergency offers and benefit from them without the Folketing having to impose it, and therefore it would also be unnecessary to make it a real legal requirement. With the new legal basis, all municipalities can get started if they want to, and I think that a great many municipalities will see the potential and enjoy the opportunities that they have thus received from 1 January this year. This leads me to say that it is precisely not certain that a social emergency offer will be the most appropriate in all municipalities. The municipalities can now choose to establish emergency offers, but they also have the opportunity to assess whether a social emergency offer is the most relevant in relation to the other offers and efforts made by the municipality for the target group in general. A social emergency offer is a complement to the existing efforts of the municipalities under the Services Act, and there may be different ways in which it is therefore most appropriate to supplement the efforts depending on the local context. In general, we must avoid pursuing one size fits all-social policy. The municipalities are different and have different efforts, and the citizens of the municipalities have different needs. This is supported by the fact that the evaluation of the project with the dissemination of emergency offers shows that there was a wide variation in the number of approaches to social emergencies. As the rules are today, municipalities can also very much choose to establish a social emergency offer adapted to the needs of their local area. In some places it may be obvious to have a running function, in other places it may be crucial that you can stay overnight. In the motion for a resolution both are a requirement and this means that there will be a great risk that we will oblige the municipalities to create functions for which there is, in fact, no demand. It would be a waste of resources which could, of course, do more good in other ways. Today, it is also possible to create emergency offers in cooperation with other municipalities, and it may make very good sense in some areas that the municipalities do not have to create each of their own offers. It may also contribute to the presence of the necessary specialised competences. We therefore run the risk of undermining this by imposing on the vast majority of municipalities that they should create separate offers. Finally, it is of course also relevant to mention that the proposal involves substantial expenditure. The proposers estimate that it will cost 230 million. kr. the first year and 205 million. kr. annually thereafter. However, it is estimated by the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs that it could cost around 450 million. kr. in the year of establishment and 420 million; kr. Afterwards. It is essential for me that we spend the money on social matters, so that it is the most important thing for the benefit of our citizens, and that is why it is also important that we give the right priority. These are resources of an order of magnitude which could give a significant boost to the efforts of the whole target group if they are properly used. Try to think about what you could use 400 million. kr. to. There could be a significant increase in efforts throughout social psychiatry, in the area of disability or for vulnerable children and young people, which is why I do not think we should use them to impose efforts on municipalities which they can already undertake today, if the individual municipality considers that this will benefit their citizens. I will conclude with a brief summary: I think the proposal is sympathetic, but it is the case that the municipalities already have the opportunity today to create social emergency services, and I also do not think that we should deprive the municipalities of the opportunity to organise their work according to the specific needs of their citizens. In addition, the proposal will require a very high level of economic priority, which I believe will be more beneficial in other ways. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal. Having said that, I hope that more municipalities than those already in operation will see the potential of social emergencies and will take advantage of the opportunity we have given them to create them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140126	There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140129	Thank you to the Minister, both for roses and for rice. I am, of course, aware of the amendment to the law to which the Minister refers, which allows the municipalities to set up these social emergency services for citizens who are in mental crisis. And what is intended here is to ensure that all the citizens can have access to such an emergency offer if they need it, regardless of the municipality in which they live, whether it is one of the 18 municipalities that either has or thinks about establishing an offer, or whether it is in one of about 80 other municipalities that are not currently considering it. This is, of course, the continuation of a discussion we often have in the field of health, where we see major problems with geographical inequalities in relation to health. In other words, if we were to make a parallel to the health care system, it would be inconceivable that it should be up to the individual region to make a treatment offer available so that only if you lived in the region of Central Jutland or Zealand would you be able to receive a given treatment. And that is what we see when it comes to psychiatry in the municipalities. There it will be up to the individual municipality to make it available. So I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on ensuring that there are equal rights for citizens, regardless of the municipality in which they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140252	I believe that Mrs Stine Brix operates with a wrong premise embedded here. For Mrs Stine Brix it stands as if it is a social emergency offer or nothing; as if it is a way of getting help or not getting any help at all. And, of course, it is important to say that the municipalities are, as it were, already under obligation today to provide help to citizens who are in crisis and who are at risk in one way or another. We can then see that with the legal basis given here per. On 1 January, several municipalities choose to operate and create social emergency services. And that is a very good thing, but I also think that one should have a look at how municipalities can be different; one may have concluded cooperation agreements with another municipality, or there may be an organisation that makes one think in the individual municipality that it may not be right now for them to give priority to such a social emergency offer, because instead they have a different organisation that is better suited to that particular municipality. And I think you just need to have a look at that nuance too and that it is not a social emergency offer or nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140358	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140400	Thank you for that clarification. I'm aware of that. There is nothing to prevent our proposal from working together. What we are proposing and what is also clear in the text is that we must ensure that all citizens have easy access to it. This does not mean that it must be physically located in each municipality, if that is not what makes sense. But all citizens, regardless of which municipality they live in, must have easy access, rather than only in the 18 or so municipalities we are talking about today. But what I would like to hear the Minister relate more to is that we have a health service, where it is quite clear what offers and what rights you have, and then we have the offers that apply when you are in the municipality and have a mental crisis, where it is extremely different and where it is very difficult as a citizen to find out what offers there are, what rights you have. I would like us to have a social system that learned something more from health care, so it was clearer what kind of rights you have as a citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140501	This really is an interesting debate to take. For what is, after all, embedded in the Service Act and, as such, right up to the purpose clause in the Service Act is precisely that you are based on an individual and concrete assessment. And that is precisely because, in the social field, there can be a great many different solutions needed to help a person in an acute crisis that is socially vulnerable. But what is, after all, the main line, which is written very clearly, is that it must still be based on an individual and concrete assessment. And if you have help needs, you also need help; that is where the municipality will have to deliver it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140545	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteurs, and the first in the rapporteur's line is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140558	I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for focusing on psychiatry and preventive and early interventions. This is an important area to discuss, and there is no doubt that there is room for improvement when it comes to preventing and preventing people with mental illness from being re-installed or becoming ill over and over again, because the follow-up and preventive measures are not good enough. There is a long way to go before we can be satisfied with the treatment and, in particular, the transitions between treatment in psychiatry and help in the municipalities experienced by patients with mental disorders. Too many are being discharged too quickly without the necessary help. We hear that our police and employees in the general housing sector, for example, tell about an increasing number of groups of people left in their care without treatment or necessary social efforts. The consequences are great for both the citizens concerned and for our staff, who are unable to help in the best way. We believe that there is a need for better, coherent processes and that there are offers available to those who need them. However, we do not necessarily believe that the right solution is to oblige all municipalities to introduce a social emergency offer in exactly the form described in the resolution. We know that in many municipalities and regions there are various offers that work very well. For example: Psychiatry House in Silkeborg and a similar offer in Copenhagen, and in other municipalities and regions there are other good offers. There is no doubt that social emergency offers, as described in the motion for a resolution and tested in the pool of rates projects, are good. But it is not necessarily the same as that it makes sense to establish something on top of the offers that exist elsewhere and that everyone must have exactly the same offers. Against this background, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. However, we note the good results of the venture pool project and expect municipalities and regions to take responsibility for themselves and establish the right offers for those people who need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140829	There is no wish for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. We go to the next rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523140841	I would like to begin by commending the Enhedslisten for putting forward the proposal so that we have the opportunity to debate psychiatry. It is an important debate, i.e. focusing on areas that do not function optimally. But then I would also like to say that we do not support the proposal. We do not support funding. Let me look at what it says: the cost of the first year is expected to be 230 million. kr. Then 205 million. kr. annual. It must be financed by reintroducing a compensatory tax of 3%. of pension payments over DKK 300,000. etc. etc. We can't go into that. Another thing that is probably one of the most important is that we do not believe that the model fits everywhere in Denmark, as the Minister also mentioned. After all, the motion for a resolution is based precisely on the investment pool project which involved 14 municipalities in Denmark. I have actually followed one municipality very closely, because it was Greve Municipality, where I sit as a councillor and where I chair the committee which has actually followed our emergency offer throughout the period. I've visited it several times. I've been talking to users. I've spoken to the staff. And when we finished the project, we evaluated it, and we found out that we were actually quite successful with it. We were one of the municipalities where it was most used. We had 117 requests a month. We had established two beds, two rooms that were covered with their own entrance, and we had spent a lot of time and resources making these beds, but they weren't used. Not to the extent we expected. Afterwards, when you talk to the users, you might understand why. But when you call and need emergency help, it's because you're afraid, you're panicked, you're feeling bad, you're suicidal. Then you don't go in and lie down in a bed and think it was really nice, because then I have a bed here. No, you come and sit in a chair, and then you talk. Then you talk to one of the two people who really know something about being mentally ill, one of those who can guide you in whether to move to a psychiatric emergency room or whether to take a little more medicine. Or they go home and visit the sick person in their own home. Those were the things that made a difference. So we have continued with our emergency phone with outgoing visits with staff sitting there, but we have closed down the two beds because it did not work. It took place from some other mentally ill who could use them at other times. That is why I do not believe it when we look at the motion for a resolution, which says that at least you should have an open telephone line. That is what we say yes to. When I look at the figures from the City of Copenhagen, I think it might be a little different than in a small municipality like Greve. I also think that we went to Lolland, they would have another way of establishing it. In fact, I think it is important that we have to say that the municipalities must ensure something for the mentally ill when they need it, especially the phone I know is worth gold. I have also heard from users who say that if it hadn't been there, they would have been taken to the psychiatric emergency room and had been hospitalized. That is why I think this is an important step, and I hope, of course, that the municipalities themselves will go in and look at how we help prevent this. It is the municipality's responsibility to prevent, whether it be somatic or mental illness. They will have to take responsibility, but if we are to decide everything from here, we do not have municipal autonomy. But that is something we have to address when we talk about the close and coherent health care; when we look at how we get the region and the municipality to cooperate. We must look at it when the Minister for Health comes up with a psychiatry action plan that should really make a difference to those who have a mental illness. I certainly hope that this is something that we are taking along, because this is connected, from prevention to the infancy of having an easy psychiatric diagnosis or, as you can also have in these emergency places, social challenges. We should be careful not to generalize and only make it some kind of thing. At any rate, I know that the municipalities that have had it are open to the people who have had these problems or challenges, whether it has been social or in a crisis situation. I have looked through the entire evaluation and can also see that those who are hardest tight are not the most. So maybe that's not where we can save the most from hospitalization. But we can certainly help those who face the problem and need that guidance. So it is very good that we can discuss it, but we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141411	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141413	Thank you and thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Liselot Blixt says that she hopes that the municipalities will carry out that task, and that is a pious hope. But how does Mrs Liselott Blixt feel today about the municipalities undertaking this task of prevention and early detection and treatment of mental illness? I do not think that is satisfactory, and I think that we see an excessive variation across the country, where it is quite crucial what kind of municipality of residence you have, in terms of what kind of help you can get. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Liselott Blix if she does not think that we have a greater responsibility to ensure that there is a greater degree of geographical equality in this area. Mrs Liselott Blix then says that it may be different offers to be made in different municipalities, and I agree with that. Of course there has to be an adaptation, and there has been that in the experiment. But the evaluation shows that virtually everywhere you have done this, in other words in many different municipalities across the country, it has been a good thing. For me, it shows that it is actually a project or an experiment that we should see throughout the country. What does Mrs Liselott Blixt think when she reads the evaluation in relation to that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141530	I would say that when I read the evaluation, of course I have looked at my own municipality a lot, that is clear. But we are also one of the municipalities which has had the most inquiries and increasingly. But of the inquiries that have been made, approx. 40% Not crisis-related, 42 per cent. light crisis, 17 per cent. medium-term crisis and 2%. serious crisis. It is important to see what challenges we are facing. Some of the evaluation has not been taken from start to finish • figures are included from 2016 onwards. So I think it's hard to deduce one hundred percent that this one can fit into all municipalities. Like I said, the beds in our municipality weren't used. You could count the days they were spent. Sometimes it was more to sit in it than to lie in it sleeping. That is also why I am saying in relation to some of this that I want it to be, but we need to see it in the context of a whole psychiatry plan. We need to see how we spend the money best. We have the discussion with the regions that lay down beds, the municipalities have to take over, without money coming with them. We also need to look at this because we are not doing it well enough for the mentally ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141643	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141645	I fully agree with Mrs Liselott Blixt's point that we need to see it in the context of a comprehensive psychiatry plan, and there, after asking the government many times, we have been given a clear undertaking that such a plan will be there. I think it is quite obvious to include this theme, because what I am asking for is that in the field of psychiatry, in general, and in the case of both the regions and the municipalities, we have a greater system, we have a greater degree of coherence, where it is clear to the public what offers there are, how to get help. I would like to ask Mrs Liselott Blix if she shares my view that there are too many projects, attempts and temporaryities and that we are dealing with a group of citizens who really do not need them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141732	I totally agree. There are too many projects. That is why I said in my municipality that we need a municipal psychiatry action plan. We must ensure that we catch children and young people, we make an early effort for the 0-2-year-olds, because there are a lot of mentally ill people there too. We have to do something to get the teachers and educators dressed. We must ensure that we take care of the stress-stricken, the degressive, but we must also tackle the elderly, who sit in a nursing home and have suffered a mental illness. It's where the municipalities have to come up with a plan. So I hope that we will take part in an action plan in the field of psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141803	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523141811	Thank you, President. Like the previous speakers, the Left also supports the warm intentions of the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. But there are also shortcomings. A shortcoming is that you think you can legally solve all problems in relation to the lack of coherence between the actors who are in the municipalities and regions. Let me just stress: mental illness or lack of mental well-being is an ever-increasing problem, especially among young people. A psychic disorder is quickly detected, and they are quickly addressed and solved, but the problem is that if you do not tackle them, it will become chronic. That is why we need to be able to detect more closely in the field of psychiatry, it requires closeness and where it is serious to be able to treat, and that requires specialised treatment. This calls for better coordination and integration of social psychiatry in the regions and social psychiatry in the municipalities. For the citizen, whether a relative or a citizen is affected by a mental illness, should not go from one system to another. Yes, you may have to, but you should not have the feeling that there are bumps on the way in relation to the treatment you receive, whether it is municipal or regional. In this context, there is good experience from investment pool projects that with emergency telephones or emergency beds or something else you can increase mental security, and the municipalities have taken this into account. Those included in the study have retained it, and more and more are coming. I believe that in the years ahead, not least with the focus that will be on the lack of mental well-being, efforts will be increased in this area. We just cannot legislate out of it, because we cannot create a solution in here where we say that at least it should be so and so, and thus limit the fact that in the spirit of cooperation, two municipalities can come together or assess that there is no need for emergency beds, or assess that there is cooperation with the region in relation to the outward part, or what do I know? It is against this background that the Left does not support the resolution. Then I also think, if I may inspire the proposers of the resolution, that there is a missing dimension, and that is civil society. I know that I can now be shot in the shoes, that core welfare must be turned to volunteers, but that is not what I believe is intended. A number of these people can get treatment for their suffering from a treatment system, but can get well-being in the future by being in contact with association life and other things. Perhaps in the future we should also be better able to think about this, namely the value of being in a community of associations. And there we may be able to draw more on civil society or voluntary Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142215	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142216	I think it is easy to use civil society, including in this area. We have good experience with this, for example. in the offer called Headspace, which is an offer targeted at young people, and which, after all, reminds us of what we are dealing with here, which is then an offer targeted at adults. There are also differences, but it is just to say that I do not have a fundamental opposition to the involvement of civil society. But I think that Mr. Carl Holst's argument is such a bit of a technical shooting, which is a bit to tighten it up, in terms of what the reality is in terms of being able to legislate. For Mr. Carl Holst says that it is not possible to make legislation that takes into account that there may be differences or that it is not possible to produce legislation that takes into account that in some places cooperation will benefit. I think you can do that. If we look at the experience we have with the concrete projects that have then been financed through the rate pool, then we can also see that those projects have been able to accommodate very different municipalities. There is both the City of Copenhagen, which is one of the 14 in round 2, and the Municipality of Syddjur, which is within the same project description. So I just want to ask: Carl Holst is not able to make legislation which can also accommodate the diversity of the municipalities, but which ensures that you can have an offer of this so that citizens know what they have of rights and opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142340	I very much agree with Mrs Stine Brix with the comment on Headspace. I myself helped start Headspace in Esbjerg in its time and actually met on that occasion a psychiatric system that said: this is dangerous, we cannot use volunteers there, we must ensure that the psychiatric system acts. So in the system there is a resistance to volunteers in relation to the meeting when young people come and say: I haven't broken an arm, but I have pain in the soul, because it's broken. And that was the resistance I referred to. That is the offer, which must of course be what brings social psychiatry and treatment psychiatry together, and that is in the cross-section of the motion for a resolution. That's why I took the liberty of mentioning it. Then I do not agree that I am systemic in my rejection. In fact, I think I am very professional in relation to the fact that you cannot say the minimum. Individual consideration will have to be taken into account in the individual municipalities. And there is an operation with minimum offers to be present, including beds. I'm not sure that's exactly what the municipality I come from, namely the municipality of Vejen, has.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142514	Here you go for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142515	Thank you for that clarification. What I'm up against is that sir... Carl Holst sounds like it can't be done at all. I can only note that it has at least been possible to carry out an experiment and a project which has been able to accommodate very different municipalities, and that is why I think it will be possible to do so. It has also been some of the demands that have been made in the experiments. It has consisted of the three elements: a 24-hour telephone; that one could appear anonymously without being searched; and that there was an opportunity for accommodation. So there have been some demands that have been characteristic of the projects and that has been permissible. So what I really would like to ask is, what if Mr. Carl Holst wasn't supposed to give a specific opinion on this motion for a resolution, but on the idea, could he see the perspective that we in Parliament are saying that there must be minimum offers so that you know what you can count on if you get into an acute crisis, where you can turn and how to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142612	Thank you. I have just said that the rate pool evaluation and the project were good, even if it operated across the board. So it is not fair when Mrs Stine Brix tries to shoot me in the shoes that I say it cannot be done. It's been possible, and you're about to roll out all the people who were there. There will be more, it will grow from below, and I am delighted about that. I think it's just gonna grow from below, too. From below it must grow, because it is the municipalities that have their finger on the pulse, in terms of what needs there are, what opportunities you have and what efforts should be able to be made. Then everyone has a right under the Service Act and other laws, and they must continue to have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142700	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. No one else has asked for brief comments. We go to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series, Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142707	I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for putting this on the agenda. As with previous rapporteurs, there are also two reasons why we in the Liberal Alliance do not support the proposal. It is true that there has been an evaluation of the stake pool experiment, and it showed that users were happy with the offer and that it gave security to know that you could get help around the clock, but it was not assessed whether this is the place you get the most for the money. I think that is quite relevant. There are a lot of good ideas, there are a lot of good intentions, and there are a lot of good suggestions, but I think it is important that we start to think more carefully: where do we get the most for the money, where are we helping most people for the resources we now have? And I do not think it is a good idea to decide centrally that all municipalities should have a social emergency offer. It may well be, it's a good idea. I think that can be so far along the way. But I do not think it is a good idea for us to decide centrally. That's the first reason. The second is funding. After all, the Enhedslisten is proposing a fresh fire tax on the savings of pensioners. It is not a surprise to me that the Enhedslisten is proposing it, and it is probably no surprise to the Enhedslisten that the Liberal Alliance does not want to reinstate this overtaxation. So, overall, the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142848	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank Mrs Laura Lindahl and move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523142901	Thank you. First of all, thank you to Enhedslisten for focusing on psychiatry and the need for emergency services in psychiatry. The majority of the social-psychiatric offers that already exist require either visitation or a prior agreement, and therefore there is very likely a group of citizens who do not have access to the offers they need and which are appropriate to their acute needs. As several speakers have also said, this is a community-based offer, the social emergency offer, which is 24 hours a day and in which citizens with an acute mental crisis can approach without a prior agreement and without a visitation. We are also very concerned in the Alternative that there are no offers for that group, and that is why, in our own health issue, we are actually focusing on the fact that we would like to have more psychiatry houses. We propose the creation of smaller psychiatry houses, where municipal and regional services are gathered, in recognition of the fact that it can be difficult to navigate in the highly sectoral psychiatry area and to know where to turn for help, and especially for the target group that this proposal is also about. The psychiatry houses that we would like to have set up can, as with this proposal, come closer to the citizens, and we have seen with the Psychiatry House in the Central Jutland Region that it has a positive effect also in relation to the number of admissions, and it can also help prevent inappropriate admissions and strengthen the possibility that you can manage in your own home and not have to go through long-term treatment. We also want to be able to balance the consumption of medicines at the same time, so that we also have a slightly more nuanced relationship and a slightly more nuanced approach to the consumption of medicines and the complementary options used in psychiatry. So we agree with Enhedslisten that it makes good human sense to create these emergency services, and it also makes good socio-economic sense because it reduces the number of bed days for the target group, among other things, and on that basis I would say that we are positive about the focus on emergency offers. Whether it should be in exactly this version, we can talk further about, but we are certainly positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523143235	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line and the next one is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523143245	Thank you. It has been said by previous speakers here today that the municipalities must help citizens who need help. That is what is meant by the Service Act. This also applies, of course, to citizens with mental disorders. Through the movement pool there has been some kind of development work, one might call it, of emergency offers to people with mental illness who live in their own homes. But it is different according to the size and needs of the different municipalities, and it is really very educational that one cannot necessarily take one particular form and lay down over all municipalities, because there are so many things that are involved in the municipalities' assessment of what they need for the individual citizens. However, it can be said that it has at least been a success in various ways, and the municipalities have no doubt experienced the benefit of the two courses from the pool and seen their diverse needs. I think that is also instructive. It is obvious that the solutions best suited to the individual municipality are locally addressed. That is why we are really going to go a different way than the one proposed here by the authors of the motion for a resolution, inspired by the motion for a resolution tabled by Enhedslisten and which we are discussing here today, to take the initiative of discussing with the Radicals' municipal councillors around the country what their experience is in that area and to see what lessons they have taken and how they are doing this kind of work here. I think that we could actually contribute to this when we sit in the Folketing, in other words to take initiatives of this kind towards our own. So in those words, I acknowledge Enhedslisten's desire to help solve some of these problems that we have as citizens with mental disorders, but I will go a different way than the one that Enhedslisten proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523143440	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523143450	First of all, thank you to Enhedslisten for making this good proposal. The proposal is to incorporate the establishment of social emergency services into the forthcoming psychiatry action plan and to oblige municipalities to ensure that all citizens have easy access to emergency services. Both intentions in the SF are very sensible. Social emergency services are a huge help and an important offer for people with mental disorders, and experience in this area shows this. As has also been explained in the comments on the proposal, through two now completed stake pool projects from 2008 to 2011 and from 2014 to 2017, work has been done on spreading social emergency offers. The good results, among others. Compared to the citizens' increased well-being and fewer admissions and bed-days in general psychiatry, there is evidence that there is really something to be done here, both for the individual citizen and also for the psychiatry. And I think we've all met if you're in contact with people who are mentally vulnerable or have mental disorders, someone who has described that it's incredibly difficult to find out where you can get help, and many people also experience rejection when they turn to some places. Sometimes it also sadly means that their suffering is getting worse, and in the worst cases it ends with hospitalization and sometimes with coercion because you have not received the help you should have. So we support the three core services proposed, which are mentioned in the proposal: emergency telephones, an opportunity to appear in the emergency offer without visitation and the opportunity to stay overnight in the emergency offer. These are all important elements for creating some robust and supportive offers that can accommodate receiving citizens who often have a great need and come at short notice. In the same context, it makes sense that the proposal also points out that offers must include an outgoing function for citizens who have suffered acute mentally ill or who cannot make the offer themselves. All in all, the SF believes that this is a very sensible proposal and that the intentions and ideas behind it are good. I am not going to go much into the proposed funding in the proposal, but would just like to state that we in the SF are willing to provide funding together with the proposers and others who support it. Against this background, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523143717	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523143732	Thank you. The proposers of B 109 will require the government by 1 January 2019 at the latest to require municipalities to have easy access to a social emergency offer for citizens with a mental illness, as they live in their own homes. We can say that the intention of the proposal can of course be right. What the proposal here is proposing is that it should be all municipalities, with the exception of the smallest ones. The question is whether this is the best way to spend the money, i.e. by centrally putting it into the municipalities. We don't think so. The proposers also say that it is estimated that this will cost around 230 million. kr. the first year and 205 million. kr. in the years after. And there we have to say that the Ministry is going to come up with a good double, so there is certainly no funding here. The proposal is that it should be financed through a compensatory tax on pension payments. You can have an opinion on that, but it is certainly not something that the Conservatives support. But what we support is that it is important that people with mental disorders get the right help to get by in their own homes, to thrive there. It's very important that we have a closeness in these offers. It can be said that in the case of the investment pool projects that were involved in testing and disseminating social emergency services, it has been shown that many of the municipalities have chosen to continue. I know that my own municipality in Lemvig, together with two other municipalities, has made an agreement with the region today to get this psychiatry offer out near the citizens, in the municipality. I think that will be the model for the future, that is to say, to ensure that we get the shortest possible distance from these emergency services, and I think that the municipalities, together with the regions, will be the best ones to find a solution for this. When we look at it together, it is the case that social emergency services are complementary to the existing actions of the municipalities under the Services Act, which is based on an individual, concrete assessment. We believe in close health, including in psychiatry. There, in many places around Denmark, together with the municipalities, the regions will agree that you can have emergency offers close to the citizens, and it would be absolutely right to do so, namely leave it in the vicinity. However, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523144049	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523144056	Thank you for that, President. With this motion for a resolution, we propose that all citizens, regardless of the municipality in which they live, should have easy access to a social emergency offer. A social emergency offer is a place where you can approach without first having to visit it, and it is important if you are in an acute mental crisis. These may be citizens who are already familiar with psychiatric conditions, for example. fear or depression, and then there is a sudden worsening and needing help, but there may also be people who are not already known in the psychiatric system but who are experiencing a crisis that may lead to a psychiatric disorder if they do not get the right help. Twice there have been attempts with social emergency offers paid by the rate pool, namely from 2008 to 2011 and again from 2015 to 2017. The results have been very good in the municipalities where such an emergency social offer has been made. It was in total in the first round 5 municipalities, and in the second round it was 14 municipalities. An extensive evaluation has also been made of the Danish Social Protection Agency, which shows that the results are good. What we want with this motion for a resolution is to take the tests and evaluation seriously by saying: now we know; now we know that this is a very good offer; let us make sure that all citizens can benefit from it. It is an offer that is targeted in particular at those citizens who have not become so ill that it is relevant for them to be admitted to a psychiatric hospital, and it is an offer that we can see can prevent you from ending up there and that can stabilise a crisis. It is also an offer that has proved to be very good at focusing on empowerment, that the individual takes part in his or her own course of treatment or situation and helps to draw up his or her own action plan. It is generally a very good principle that we need to be more integrated into our psychiatry, because we know it is so important to make things right that you have a share of responsibility for getting fresh yourself. It is also very important that these are offers that are open 24 hours a day, because we know that an acute crisis does not necessarily respect the normal opening hours from 9 to 17. Here it may be absolutely crucial that you can also get someone who can help you when it is a weekend, evening or perhaps night. We can also hear that it is particularly safe to know that someone is answering the phone, or someone you can contact, regardless of the time we are talking about. We have a psychiatry which is very much plagued by experiments, projects and temporaryities, and it is not to say that experiments per year. It may be necessary, but when we see again and again, as I think there may be a slight tendency to make an attempt in one place and one attempt in the other place, it is good, and then there is not so much further, there will be a problem of stability, a problem of coherence, a problem of the lack of transparency of what offers are and what rights people actually have. I think it is important that a citizen, whether living in Albertslund or Aabenraa, knows what help can be given, that it is transparent where to turn, for example if you have a mental problem or a mental crisis. I also said here in the debate that, when we have the debate on health, which particularly covers the regional part of psychiatry, it is a very reverse debate. There we often talk about how we ensure that everyone has the same rights, whether you live in North Jutland or Region Sjælland. And I actually think that in this area we can learn something when it comes to the part of psychiatry that the municipalities take care of. After all, it is good that there are about 18 municipalities that have chosen to continue the project they have been part of via the rate pool. But what about all the others? Sir. Carl Holst of the Left said he sees it grow and that he hopes it comes from below. Well, it's not safe, and so far there's no sign of it. So far, only the municipalities that have already been included in the project are in progress. So my patience is certainly not enough for us to just wait and see what happens. In any case, I believe that at least some money must be given, so that it is possible for the municipalities that have not been involved in the first phase to establish it. In addition to the fact that it is an offer that has prevention and early treatment as the focal point of something we really lack in psychiatry very often we can also see that it is an offer that also has a relief effect on the regional psychiatry, which is of course heavily burdened. That is where we hear from relatives, healthcare professionals and patients that you experience that you cannot be hospitalized, even if you need it very much because there is no room and that you experience being discharged before you are actually finished because there is no room. And you can see from the evaluation of this project that it actually prevents admissions and reduces the number of bed days in regional psychiatry, so here we also have an opportunity to go in and solve a problem or at least reduce the problem we have in regional psychiatry by relieving psychiatric departments and solving some tasks before getting there. It is a task that we find it difficult to deal with because we lack the staff needed to expand the offer there. I would just like to outline a few of the good experiences that the evaluation has shown: the offer particularly affects some of the people we have had difficulty getting in touch with in other ways, for example. those who are not already in contact with psychiatry, but at the same time you also reach some of the people who actually have many admissions behind them and reach them before they return to hospital. 20% experience that they get better mentally, and so we can measure a real decrease in admissions and in bed days. The SF's rapporteur was absolutely right in the point that this should be seen here in the context of the desire for a comprehensive plan of action for psychiatry that is, of course, absolutely central. We need so much coherence and we need so much to see how we upgrade both psychiatry in the municipalities and regions and how we ensure that the offers we make are linked. So it only makes sense in my world that this is part of the work that is being set in motion in this respect. So that is certainly the way it should be understood. We have had a very good question debate in the past in the Danish Parliament, where it was established widely that we should have such an action plan. There is disagreement between red and blue blocs about how much commitment is being made to the psychiatry being given priority, but I think that we must now continue to work on that. Whatever the case, I hope that this theme can also be included in such an action plan. Then several of the rapporteurs have said in the course of the debate that it would be too inflexible to take account of the fact that there is a difference between one municipality and another. I do not agree with that, because I do believe that the experiments we have had show the opposite. We have had experiments which have worked well both in Copenhagen, Syddjurs, Greve, Næstved and in many other places • municipalities which are different, have different citizens and are of different sizes. So, in my opinion, we can easily make a demand to the municipalities that such social emergency services should be provided to people in mental crisis who take into account that municipalities are, of course, different. It is also easy to introduce flexibility in relation to the fact that in some municipalities it would be obvious to co-operate. It is clear that it does not make sense that Læsø Municipality, Fanø Municipality and perhaps not Langeland Municipality should have their own, so it would be obvious that you cooperate with some major cities nearby. Then there have been some comments on expenditure. The expenditure we have estimated is based on the evaluation that has been made, where it appears that emergency offers have cost an average of 2.1 million. kr. That is why we have estimated the total cost of 205.8 million. kr. The Minister believes that it costs twice as much, and I would, of course, like to give the Minister, in writing, the opportunity to elaborate on how to get to that point. I do not really have the imagination to imagine that, but I look forward to it further. With those comments, I would like to express my thanks for the positive reception of the intentions, and I certainly hope that we can work together to ensure that the action plan that psychiatry needs so much also takes care of the need for more systematic treatment for the municipal part of psychiatry, and that we need so much more attention to be paid to the prevention and early treatment, which I believe is far from optimal today. Those are the remarks from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145031	There is a question from Mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145033	Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the author of the motion for a resolution for their commitment to the subject, which I believe we all share. We then have some nuances in how we look at the subject. What I referred to in the rapporteur's final remark was the comment that I, as rapporteur, have been concerned about growing from below, and perhaps I made it sound a bit like or give a hint of the question: who can believe that it is beneficial that something grows from below? We have to do something from above. Now both the rapporteur and I mentioned the importance of civil society in the discussions. Does the rapporteur think that it is more sustainable to legislate for an obligation than to say that something is growing from below, whether it is in Association Denmark or in municipal self-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145133	My patience is not enough to wait for it to grow from below. I do not think there is anything to suggest it, and I think it is about one thing: money. If you don't have the money to set up this offer, I don't think that's gonna happen either. That is why we see that the offer and now I do not dare to put my head on the block, as to whether it is only in the municipalities that have been part of the experiment • actually practically only exists in the municipalities that have been part of the experiment. I think that's a shame, because it's a coincidence. Well, what kind of municipalities were involved in the experiment? It is not, of course, because it is the 14-18 municipalities which had the most need that they may have sought or otherwise been selected. In fact, I think it is important that we can ensure that citizens, regardless of which municipality they then live in, whether it has been someone who has applied for a project or has been selected to participate in an experiment, can have access to the help they need. Here we just have a super good offer that we can see works, and that is why I think we should make sure that it is everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145237	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145238	As far as this is concerned, I believe that the rapporteur and I take a fundamentally different view of how to honour change management. There are 18 municipalities that have done this. They must then be told: you have done this, but now we are paying other municipalities to do something similar. We set the framework instead of appealing to it to grow from below. I think there's something fundamental and fundamental in this. I recognise the view of patience, but what helps impatient behaviour that has no effect because it is not rooted in municipal self-government? The mentally vulnerable citizens of Denmark will not be better off.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145324	Now Mr. Carl Holst well that if we make legislation from in here, which obliges the municipalities to make an offer, then there is also a responsibility from in here to finance it. And that would apply to all municipalities, it is clear, including the municipalities that already have established offers. So that would be a way of ensuring that it actually continues in those municipalities too, regardless of how the economy develops. Because it can be said that the consequence of the view that Mr. Carl Holst represents here, of course, that the municipalities that have a poor economy will not be able to establish it, whereas the municipalities that have a good economy may have a better chance. And there I just think that we are dealing with a group that is too vulnerable and that needs so much that there is an offer to them to leave it to the local municipality's economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145412	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145427	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523145449	Thank you, President. The proposers will require the government to change the rules for the own-payment of children and young people placed in care. Under the current rules, municipalities can decide that children and young people under the age of 18 who have income from e.g. a leisure job will help to pay the cost of the stay, and the proposers will have done so so that young people will not be able to collect their own income from work in the future. The proposal envisages that the changes should take place before the end of the current parliamentary year. The reason is, among other things, that the rules on self-payment reduce the incentive for children and young people to take a leisure job which can help to equip them for adult life. I would like to start by saying that I think this is a very, very sympathetic proposal. In the government we fully share the intention behind the motion for a resolution, and we would also like to work positively towards a change, so that children and young people, for example, are placed in a position to do so. can keep the money they earn from a leisure job themselves. I am absolutely convinced that a leisure job can provide young people with many good, positive skills and experiences that they can use in life and on their further journey. Being part of a working community is in itself valuable; it can strengthen self-confidence, it can strengthen responsibility and develop the ability to cooperate with others. Research results also indicate that young people who have a leisure job generally do better at school and are in less contact with the police. Vulnerable children and young people particularly need the backlash, such as: A leisure job can provide. They do this because, unfortunately, as vulnerable children and young people, they generally do worse at school and are more likely to become involved in crime than their peers. At the same time, children and young people often come from vulnerable families, where parents are either outside the labour market or on the edge of the labour market, and this may mean that children and young people lack role models in which they can reflect, in terms of learning how to live in working life. Therefore, there are very good reasons to support that children and young people placed in care are given a leisure job, and that is why, of course, it also makes an impression when there are young people who say that they see that the rules on self-paying today are an obstacle, as is the case in the chronicle mentioned in the resolution. If the government still cannot support the proposal, it is partly because we do not have the necessary basis for decision-making at this stage. We simply do not know what it will cost to change the rules, nor do we know what the funds are for this at the moment. Therefore, there is also a need to examine the problem further before we decide on a possible change in the rules, and let me clarify this: today it is the case that the municipalities can decide on the self-payment of young people placed in care when the young person has income, for example. To work. If the municipality then chooses to impose a self-payment, it is important to stress that the young person must have at least an amount of money which corresponds to the amount normally provided as pocket money and as clothing money, and it is also clear from the guidance in this area that the young person's salary should, as a general rule, be paid to the young person himself in order to equate them exactly with other children and young people and to enable young people to learn how to manage their money themselves. The government does not currently have the necessary knowledge of local authorities' practices. We simply lack the information on the extent to which municipalities actually decide to impose on children and young people placed in care, and how much that amounts to. This means, on the one hand, that it is difficult to assess the need for a change of rules and, on the other hand, that we cannot currently calculate what it will cost in DUT compensation to the municipalities. It is generally the case that when we in the Folketing or the government decide or change rules that have economic consequences for the municipalities, we have to negotiate DUT with the municipalities. And it might seem weird in this context, and I understand that, but that's how it works, and that's how it's been for a lot of years. Secondly, when the government cannot support the proposal, it is due to the fact that the funding has not been clarified. Furthermore, the proposers will require the government to change the rules of this parliamentary year, which means that the proposal may, in the circumstances, entail additional expenditure which is not financed in the current financial year, and I do not think that is responsible. But let me stress once again: I fully share the intention behind the proposal, and I would very much like to help to look at the issue and also the possibility of changing the rules jointly. That is why I have asked the Ankestyrelsen to investigate the self-payment of children and young people, so that we can have the necessary basis to stand on, so that we know how much costs, and it is the expectation that that study will be completed in October of this year. So before the report is available and the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs has had the opportunity to count on the costs, the government will not be putting forward any plans to change the rules, but should that be the case, I also assume, of course, that the proposers will be involved in finding the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150000	There is a question from Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150002	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. It is not surprising to me that the Minister is saying what the Minister is doing, and I also recognise that the Minister thinks it is a sympathetic proposal, but we are not going to make much progress on that. The Minister lists a lot of things about what is valuable about a leisure job and why it is important, and I also know that the Minister is concerned about children and young people's relationships, etc. I'm just having a hard time seeing what it really is that speaks against this proposal. The Minister keeps repeating something about economics and what it will cost and something like that, but does the Minister really think that it is the case that there are municipalities who are calculating that they should have an income from a young person placed or from some of the young people placed in the municipality, on the basis of their jobs perhaps as a newspaper messenger or as a bottle boy in a utility association? I am a little surprised that the Minister is going to say that this could end up being really something with the need for dut'es and all sorts of other things. I would like to make a comment on that in each case, because I would be very surprised if that were the way it was done. In fact, I think we have a big challenge in terms of how to act. The second is that it is a very small and limited proposal, and I think that the Danish People's Party has tried to identify it in such detail. Then it was not an idea that the Minister now, as a good conservative, said: of course, here we are focusing on the citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150126	It's pretty close to being very tempting. That is not the intention, nor is it the political substance that does it. I believe that the whole House will actually share the intention if I am going to make a bid, but it will be a question of the proposal being applied to technology. Technique is incredibly boring every once in a while. But it is technology so far that if you cannot calculate what it costs and what its scope is at present, it is not an opportunity for me to act as responsible minister, just to say: well, then we will just say yes. The rules in relation to DUT are as they are. I didn't make them. Other wise people have done so long before my time. But I think it must be described as a very, very wide-ranging hand, that we are taking it down very positively and, as such, also saying that we would like to work towards amending the law. All we need is a basis on which to stand; this is what we will have this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150236	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150238	The whole House will probably agree, says the Minister. In other words, I would assume that if the Danish People's Party chooses to put this to the vote, then the government will choose to vote for it. But the Minister himself can answer that question. The minister does not relate to this at all when I ask whether the government really believes that there can be municipalities that calculate with this as an income in the municipality fund if you have perhaps a single citizen who is placed and who then has a leisure job. I cannot really get that together, but the Minister can then comment on it and on whether the Minister thinks that this will be a huge sum that you get into the municipal treasury and that you suddenly have to juggle with. It would be really nice to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150328-2	I think what I said was that the House agrees with the intention. Are the municipalities calculating with an income? I hope not. In other words, it would be one of the most unsympathetic things one could imagine if a municipality started to calculate that it should have an income because placed children and young people had a leisure job. But we don't know. In fact, we do not know how many municipalities charge this own-payment, nor do we know how much they actually charge. That is what we need to clarify. We need to get the information from the Ankestyrelsen and they are finished in October so that we have a basis to stand on. We are going to have that, and when we get it, it will fit in with the fact that we are ready for a good pool of rates, because then we have a basis to stand on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150418	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150419	Sometimes you may wonder what should be of barriers to even tiny suggestions • that it is something that needs to be examined by the Ankestyrelsen. In other words, it is almost the main calculation to try to calculate how many of the young people are at an age where they can actually get a leisure job that is placed, and how many of them might think of having a leisure job, and then cook it down to say how many municipalities it is then at all that would be able to charge it. So we're down to a microscopic amount. I really think it is a little too bad that a very good proposal should drown on it. And I am rather worried, because does this mean that we are in a situation as we have with other small proposals, where once the calculator has been in operation, it is a hugely expensive proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150513	Well, it's always bad when SF gets worried. But the rules are what they are. The rules were made a lot of years ago. And I think it would be a good thing if we looked each other in the eye one day and said that we would work towards a change in the rules. But now the SF has also been in government, and then the SF also knows that government responsibility also follows responsibility for not being able to meet proposals that are costly. And because we don't know how much it is, I actually fully agree with Mrs Trine Torp that it is probably very, very little money we will have to get a look at the matter, and that's exactly why we have to get this investigation at the Ankestyrelsen, so that we know what the basis is. And we do not have much haste either, because we would still get it away so that we can discuss it, even in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150606	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150607	So is there just the question: does the Minister think that this is something that will have to be financed by the rate pool if it is finally the case that there was an expense?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150617	In other words, we are already discussing the location area, and we are doing so because we agreed on it with last year's rate pool agreement. With last year's rate pool agreement, we agreed to discuss the placement area here this year in order to have some negotiations towards the rate pool agreement. And if you want to discuss the location area in advance, it makes sense to take this proposal into account in the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150647	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150648	Sometimes it's a little bit under your arm when you listen to those economic arguments, because we're talking about people, and we're talking about some very vulnerable people out there. If you put such a calculation inside your head and imagine that there are so many young people who are placed, then a smaller proportion of them will be those who have a leisure job. So we're talking about an unlikely small amount compared to the big Treasury, that's my guess. Then you can weigh it up against: How much does such an investigation cost in the Ankestyrelsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150722	I don't know what that kind of investigation on the Anke Agency costs. But I quite agree that the rules can sometimes be really weary, and that can be the trouble, and it can be annoying. It is just that when you are a minister and when you have ministerial responsibilities, you have to abide by those rules, and that also means that you cannot stand by and say yes to spending proposals, regardless of the scale on which they may come. That is why they must be respected anyway, and I really think the Danish People's Party should accept the extended hand and say: Do you know what we take the Minister at his word, in the autumn we really, really want to discuss it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150758	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150759	The Danish People's Party then thinks that the minister should accept the Danish People's Party's extended hand. After all, we are the supporting party to the current government. My next question is: is it even possible to calculate the income that comes from young people? Because you have to assume that they have a job for a certain period of time, and then they don't have that job anymore, and then there's another young person who gets to work and so on, and then you'll have a very unreliable income out in the municipality. So is it even possible to sit consciously and expect to get an income from young people, who thus contribute to the municipal fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150832	Anyway, I can just tell you how the rules are screwed up today. Today it is the case that a municipality can decide that children and young people who are placed outside the home must help to pay for their stay if the children or young people have income from, for example, a leisure job, and the detailed rules are then laid down in a notice issued on the basis of the Services Act. That is the legal basis on which we stand, and that is the basis we need to get qualified, i.e. how many municipalities actually use this own payment and how much they use it. That is what we do not know at present, and that is what we are now being examined and where we hope to get some good answers which can at least provide greater clarity, this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150914	Then we thank the Minister. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523150925	Thank you. As far as children and young people are concerned, this is a group that we very much care about, which is why I should also like to thank the Danish People's Party for once again raising the agenda and allowing us to discuss the issues that we are looking at in the area of placement. As can be seen from this resolution, children and young people placed on a wide range of parameters are far worse than their peers and, of course, this is not good enough. It is our responsibility to ensure that some of the most vulnerable children and young people who need to live elsewhere than with their parents are given the best possible conditions and opportunities to cope. There are many reasons why the children placed have worse conditions, that they thrive less and have less opportunities for education, jobs and good lives, and there are many challenges we need to address. That is why we also have great expectations of the debates and debates that are going on in the field of housing. We believe that there is a need for a greater overhaul of the area, and in autumn's negotiations on the 2018 rate pool, we agreed to continue discussions on the placement area here in spring 2018. As far as this resolution is concerned, we fully agree with the intention behind the proposal. We do not think it is fair to place children in any way inferior to their peers and, of course, they should not be set off against income when they are given a leisure job. It is our expectation that this area, together with a number of other challenges, will be brought up in the forthcoming discussions and that a solution will be found. That is why we also have a clear expectation that the government will follow up the issue and, together with the other wage-pooling parties, find a solution in the forthcoming negotiations. We will even go so far as to say to the Minister that this must be resolved as part of the negotiations that have already begun. Otherwise, we intend to vote in favour of the proposal here. However, we are initially awaiting the forthcoming discussions in the pool of rates and cannot therefore vote in favour of this resolution as it stands today. It's kind of a special situation. I hope I have explained the situation clearly anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151200	A brief remark from Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151203	Thank you. And thank you for the nice words about the proposals of the Danish People's Party and, of course, also the participation in what we, on the part of several parties, perhaps even almost all parties, are very concerned about, namely improving conditions for the vulnerable children and young people who are placed. However, I would like to hear and perhaps clarify a little more why it is that the Socialists believe that there are some things that need to be clarified first. Actually, we know there's that possibility. The Minister explained the possibility that exists today. We know it is happening; we do not know the extent, but for me it is such a thing that a child who is being charged is a child too much. So I would like to ask: what is it that we really need to clarify extra so that the Social Democrats can say now that this is what we have to vote for? So I would also like to hear what I also asked the Minister about: does the rapporteur think that there are municipalities that really calculate to get an income from this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151303	To answer the last one, I would like to say: no, I do not think there is. But what is important to us is to say that we strongly support the intentions. It is clear that children and young people placed in care must have the same conditions as did not, so they should not be set off against each other. However, we believe that timing is problematic, since we are currently discussing the location area, and there are several things that need to be lifted and changed in this respect. And that must be negotiated; it must be discussed in a negotiating room; it must not be spoken of right now from the platform. That is why it is so important for me to say that it is not the intention that fails; it is the timing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151353	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151354	There's always time to discuss timing. Now, I would like to say that this is a resolution that the Danish People's Party has made a long time ago, and now it is so scheduled for today. And the Minister has just called for the first discussions this morning. These are not negotiations, but discussions in the field of foster care. So I may not think it is entirely related, but I think this is a fine, small-scale proposal which we can easily take a position on. And we should not forget that, when we start a process of discussions, or whatever you would call it, we also know that this is something that takes time. And that's also what I actually suppose it'll do in relation to this very, very complex area. So since it is a small limited area and if we say that the Danish People's Party chooses to put it to the vote in this Chamber, what will the Social Democrats vote for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151443	I also think it is important that we and the DF can welcome the start of negotiations. It should be noted that we are saying that we have a clear expectation that the government will follow up the problem and, together with the other wagering parties, find a solution in the forthcoming negotiations. And it should be noted that I say to the Minister that this must be resolved as part of the negotiations that have already begun.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151513	We are grateful to the rapporteur and then we move on in the rapporteur's line. And it is the case that Mrs Karin Nødgaard, who is the rapporteur for the proposers, has chosen to split up her 10 minutes, so Mrs Karin Nødgaard has 5 minutes now and 5 minutes to finish. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523151530	Thank you. First one quote: I just wanted to be normal. Then why the hell would I have to fight the city to keep what finally gave me a feeling of being normal? That's how a young woman who's been placed asks. When I read that statement, I was both saddened, and I actually became indignant. Politically, we have been focusing for several years on children and their conditions. We try to improve legislation, sometimes with good luck. I hope that we will also be able to change the issues raised in this motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. Brought children are very different, as are all other children. However, they do have in common the fact that they do not live with their parents, that they are part of a social system, a system which, from the outset, certainly wants them well, but where, unfortunately, we do not often experience something going wrong. It may be in a number of areas with which I cannot, of course, go into detail here for reasons of time. However, I have just chosen to take this area up in the Chamber with a motion for a resolution which we have now formulated and which forms the basis for our debate. A research project at the Trygfonden Children's Research Centre on leisure jobs for young people clearly describes that leisure jobs are beneficial in several areas. For example: It contributes to less absenteeism at school, better grades, less contact with the police. A leisure job gives you a good grip on life and more self - discipline. You get your homework done, too, and you take care of school. This is all something that must be described as positive. If we compare these facts with the analysis that the National Association of Municipalities based on register data from Danmarks Statistik has made about children placed, it turns out that this particular group will have great pleasure in having a leisure job. The results of the analysis show, unfortunately, that children placed in care are far worse off than their peers. 40% did not take the primary school's final examination as opposed to 6%. of children not brought. 30% has received youth education at 25 years of age as against 79%. of not carried. 35% As a 30-year-old, training in the field of qualifications is based on 77%. of those who were not brought. 43% As a 30-year-old in employment, as against 77%. of those who were not brought. 24% boys placed in prison at least once when they are 30 years of age, compared with 4%. of those who were not brought. So these are figures that speak a very clear and clear language. And now I will return to the story of the young woman. She reports that a job in a store developed her more and faster than all the offers the municipality had given her since she was placed outside the home. She felt that she had so far been a spectator, that the municipality tried to fix her, as she says, in one way or another, and that there was always talk of activation and school offers or lack of the same. So it came to hang her far out of her neck. She didn't have any more school shifts, no more school. She chose to take matters into her own hands, got a leisure job and was proud. After starting the job, she experienced that she developed a lot as a human being, she let go of some of that social anxiety, she got a better sense of situation, and she could actually talk to others as well. Most important to her was that she felt normal through the job, that she fit in somewhere. The fact that something was expected of her, that she should take responsibility, affected her dark sides in a positive direction. She could come up in the morning, and she stopped smoking weed. This is a girl who has had depression, a bit of eating disorder and had suicidal thoughts, that is, a girl who is struggling with. Here is the intention of the proposal: why should such a girl not have the opportunity to have the same conditions as other young people who have a leisure job? And why should she be kept in that placed people have different conditions when they get a leisure job? And that's what the Danish People's Party wants to do with this proposal. Of course, this girl and probably many other youths placed there will benefit greatly from a leisure job, within reasonable limits. That must apply to everyone. There must of course be a focus on whether you are or are not placed, the number of hours worked, the nature of the work, the working hours etc. The Danish People's Party is of the opinion that, as the legislation is linked now, where municipalities can include part of the salary from a leisure job, so that the young person only has the right to retain an amount that is estimated to cover pocket money and cost of clothing. It seems quite contrary to what we want, namely that placed young people should not feel excluded and difficult. It is often said that working must pay off. It must apply to everyone, and it will be well done for the individual, but in the long term also for society. The Danish People's Party considers it unreasonable that there may be municipalities which charge more or less of a placed ung's salary and that others do not. It depends entirely on the individual municipality what it decides. And that is why we propose that it should be the same for all the people who are placed or not that the obstacles that stand in the way of putting children and young people under the age of 18 should be able to earn and keep their wages for their leisure jobs be removed. We hope, of course, that Parliament's support for this, and that is, I believe, what we can do from our platform here, as members of parliament, in order for children to be placed in a place as close as possible to all other young people. I have to say that, unfortunately, the Radical Left cannot be here today, but I have promised that I would inform you that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152121	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152144	Thank you. I would like to begin by commending the Danish People's Party for raising an issue that is extremely relevant with the motion for a resolution. For my part, I must say that until I became familiar with the chronicle to which Mrs Karin Nødgaard also referred in her rapporteur's speech, this was not a problem that I had much under my skin. So the fact that today you have a set of rules that means that the municipalities should not, but have the opportunity to say to young people who are placed, even if they are under 18, that the money you earn from a leisure job, we have the right to take some of it off. It goes without saying why it is, indeed rather unethical, that the municipalities can collect the money. It is crazy that legislation has been made and it is not very conducive to what you want to achieve by saying to young people that it is sensible to have a leisure job. It makes sense to learn how to behave, to have a working community. Many children placed in the home know that we have grown up statistically in an environment where a place on public support was more everyday life than a place in the working community. And that is why the approach, the opportunity that the municipalities have today, must be stopped. The motion for a resolution calls for this to be done in the current parliamentary year. This parliamentary year is about to end, but it must be done as soon as possible, and let us then discover what the consequences of abolishing this possibility are. And that is what we are getting because, as the Minister pointed out, she has already asked the Ankestyrelsen for a statement. We'll get some numbers. As far as I am concerned and as far as the Left is concerned, we consider it to be at the earliest after the opening of the Danish Parliament that we can make an agreement with a view to making an agreement based on the economic consequences of finding the money and abolishing it. Then we can make a lot of technical explanations about DUT and what do I know? I refuse to believe that the municipalities will stand firm on the right to continue to charge for children placed in care. That is the approach of the Left, which is why we support all the intentions and await the figures from the Ankestyrelsen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152457	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152458	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, also for the positive statements. The rapporteur says that it is unethical to collect money and that it is actually crazy legislation, but why not change the crazy legislation and do it now? It is true that the parliamentary year ends soon, but we still have a few days to go, and we can still put it to the vote. That is not a problem, and I would, of course, like to hear from the rapporteur whether that is not what we should be doing when it is a crazy piece of legislation. Why, then, is there a need for a major study? The rapporteur also says something about what the consequences might be. Well, it is those that I and other rapporteurs have now outlined that it is actually that we exclude some children and young people from being able to live as much as possible an ordinary life as other children and young people by having a leisure job, and by being able to manage their money, as they now want to do, whether it is for a movie ticket, for a concert, some extra nice sweaters or something else. I simply do not see what the Left has yet to clarify in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152609-2	I agree with what the consequences are, namely a feeling of exclusion, in that it is not worth a young person taking a leisure job, because, at the same time as you get a paycheck, you can get a girocard where you have to pay what you have earned as a payment for being placed as under the age of 18. And that's why it needs to be changed. Some would say that it has an economic consequence, and that was the consequence I was talking about, not the consequences for the young person, but the consequences for those who have the right to collect the money today, namely the municipalities. When we know the consequences, e.g. As to the extent of the scope, etc. I have no doubt that the law will change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152701	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152702	The rapporteur points out that there is a course of negotiations. The rapporteur has so much experience from this house, and also from the course of negotiations and discussions in the Ministry, that he knows that this is something that can often drag on for a long time at least, to put it mildly. However, I was able to hear that the rapporteur agrees with the intentions, so I would like to ask whether it is really necessary for this very fine, small-scale proposal to be withdrawn. Why can we not adopt it now, when the rapporteur also says that it is actually a crazy piece of legislation that is behind this? I would also like to hear what the rapporteur says about the economic consequences for the municipalities. I need to expand on that, because does the rapporteur really believe that this will be something that can almost overthrow a municipality's economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152750	With regard to the course of negotiations, I would like us to make this part of the negotiation process around the whole area, if that is what we can agree on. But I agree that it is so limited that, although it will not be part of a major reform, this has so much ethical content that it can fully justify making a special legislation or targeted legislation. In relation to the question of the economic consequences, do I think this is overturning the economy of the municipalities? No. Can I know that one hundred percent? No. If I knew, there was no reason to ask the Ankestyrelsen. But I am very convinced that this will not overturn any community economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152845	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the line of the rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523152859	I'll be brief. I think it is a very good proposal that the Danish People's Party has made. It is obviously not just an unreasonable situation, but also a stupid and unintelligent situation, when we know how much leisure jobs can mean for vulnerable young people, how it can have a positive effect on one's ability to maintain a job and an education later in life. We talk about leisure jobs so many times when we talk about prevention, when we talk about social exposure and when we talk about juvenile delinquency. There are leisure jobs just the crown of the work, and we should get many more of them, and here is a bump on the way to putting young people not only get, but also see a meaning in a leisure job. For that is the positive thing about having a leisure job: learning to have and taking responsibility. You have a responsibility, you fulfil it, and you can see that you also make some money out of what you can use for yourself. And I don't really think I need to explain it anymore, because everyone will nod to how unreasonable it is that you go to work and work and then someone will come and take your money. It shouldn't be like that. At the same time, I also think, and perhaps it is a dimension that is just missing in the debate, that it sends a signal that the cost of a placement for young people is an expense for which the young person is to be burdened or is to blame. We are sending a signal that they are a burden and an expense, and we certainly do not need that. It is both for the sake of young people when there is a placement, but it is also for the sake of our Community, because it will benefit all of us in the long term if we can solve social problems and the like as early as possible. So I think this is a very good proposal. Everyone can see and hear that talking about what this is gonna cost has gotten out of thin air. Well, frankly, it can't be very much money we're talking about. The municipalities must be dut'ed, as it is called, to have returned. It is a grotesque small amount that almost probably won't even appear on anything, so it's a straw that you grab. The fact that there are negotiations in the area of housing is, of course, another straw that can be seized. We could also just for once agree that a problem and a solution have now been found that lie just ahead. And there is even a very overwhelming majority in the Folketing who agree on it. So we could just do it, and I think there are a whole lot of people who would be really happy if we could figure out how to do it from in here. So Enhedslisten will vote in favour when and if it comes to the vote. We are also very open to making some kind of story together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153217	Thank you. There's a question. Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153219	Thank you very much to the Enhedslisten for the positive expressions. We are actually very happy about that, it is very clear language. So it is not really because I have a lot of such liberating questions in this regard. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the rapporteur uses the term a bump on the road and I fully agree that it is a small bump on the road. We are often discussing things politically, where we can see that it is almost mountains that we must climb up and get to the top of so that something can be changed at all. Here we are talking about a tiny bump on a road, and what can we do to get the government to agree that something needs to be done about this now? Because it is true that we can end up with a report and we can send it to the vote. Some debates or discussions that have begun today, etc. are being referred to. But this is just such a small restricted area. So what is it that Enhedslisten could do together with the Danish People's Party, to convince the government that it is a small bump and that it should actually be something we could do here? And is it not a question of the fact that, frankly speaking, there is now a little too much politics in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153323	I think the Danish People's Party is right in saying that it is a problem if we cannot find a way to adopt it here. I haven't spoken to the golden 90 yet, but we're damn close, I think. If I know both the alternative and the SF right, there are also some votes to be taken there. Of course, I shall not speak on behalf of the rapporteurs until they come up here, but if I know them correctly, some heart blood has also been struck in the two parties. So we're starting to be up there. And then we'll have to try not to push the government. It is basically in the end that Mrs Karin Nødgaard knows well the mandates that count here, so I wonder if we can get the government to do so. In any case, I would find it a pity if it were to be jammed into a long negotiation process when, in this way, it is straight ahead and is something that we can sort out relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153441	In recent years, there has been a great deal of focus on a good framework for young people's leisure jobs, and we know that young people who have leisure jobs are doing better on a wide range of parameters than young people who do not have leisure jobs. There is no doubt that it is healthy for young people from an early age to have a link with the labour market, and in the Liberal Alliance we can only welcome proposals like this. The government parties cannot support the proposal for a number of unfortunate reasons. You don't know what it costs, and you don't know how to finance it. But I imagine that this is limited to a few young people, and I also think that we should be able to find out what the scale is and that we can examine the extent relatively quickly. And we in the Liberal Alliance think you should. Then I would actually like to address some of the comments on the motion for a resolution. Because when I read the comments, there was a passage in particular that I thought was really interesting. And it is that the proposers write that, in their opinion, it happens that if you include part of the salary from a job, you remove the incentive to work. And then the child or young person misses all the good that a job can give: the opportunity to feel useful and learn to go to work and generally see the benefits of having a job. And the very thing about the fact that, by including a part of the salary, the incentive to work is removed is just one of the things we in the Liberal Alliance talk a lot about when we talk about the high tax burden in Denmark. So if you mean it here from the proposers' side that if you remove part of a salary, then you also remove the incentive to work then we have a lot of good and exciting suggestions in the drawer that we can pull forward and which the Danish People's Party can then support. So I think it's exciting. The concrete proposal does not support the governing parties, but, as I said, we in the Liberal Alliance believe that this is something we need to work on and also a little quickly to find out what the scale of it is and what it costs so that we can have this changed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153657	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153700	Well, I think we should leave the tax discussion somewhere else, because I really do not think it has anything to do with this small limited proposal. This is all about children and young people's opportunities to have a leisure job. And I am well aware that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is very concerned about this, because the rapporteur is also in the field of employment and knows what that means. So I am sure that the rapporteur is aware of many of the results that have come to show what it really is important for a young person to earn a sum. I'm sure most of us have tried it ourselves. I can ask the question with a smile on my face: if it was said that the Liberal Alliance and now it is again such a little thought that was in opposition, or at least was not part of the government, how would you deal with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153757	If the Liberal Alliance didn't sit in the government, we would have supported the proposal. I think I can say that very honestly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153806	Thank you for a clear answer. Then it is the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523153814	Thank you very much. I'm standing here instead of sir. Torsten Gejl. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting this motion for a resolution on the agenda and also thank the Minister for saying now that the moment she can actually do so with the powers she has then she would very much like to take part in implementing this proposal. When you get so far down in a series of speeches where everything has already been said, you can be comforted by the fact that Søren Kierkegaard has a book called Gjenelsen, where he praises the repetition and says that it is actually very good for us to have many repetitions. In fact, we also know that when you make a speech, it is actually only a pretty small percentage I do not remember what percentage it is people can relate to, so I would like to repeat with some calmness a lot of what has already been said. The alternative supports the position of the proposers that young people placed in care should not have to pay for parts of the wage they earn on leisure jobs to the municipality, and that almost gives itself. They must, of course, be able to keep and dispose of the wages they earn as well as any other young people. We also agree that having a leisure job can be documented with a wide range of positive effects. And here I am going to repeat some of them: learning how to earn your own money and how to dispose of it, among other things, contributes. to an economic awareness, to responsibility, to discipline and to mature young people. It gives them confidence in their own abilities, develops social skills and teaches them to enter a workplace. This is precisely what was described in the chronicle in Dagbladet Information, to which Mrs Karin Nødgaard has already referred and told parts of. In any case, I am going to use the words of the chronicler to describe why it is so important that we adopt this motion for a resolution. She writes: It developed me more and faster than all the offers the municipality had made me since I was placed outside the home. I guess not everyone can understand that I was so happy with a job as a sales assistant in a 7-Eleven store like I did. That was a tough job too. Conditions and wages may not have been the best, but I had achieved it all by myself. Something was expected of me, so I took a lot of responsibility for doing the job as well as possible. I was only 15 years old, and maybe it was just a job as a sales assistant, but I took it very seriously. The feeling of responsibility affected my whole life. I, who always had to be awoken a few times, came up in the morning and cycled off to work, usually before the rest of the house had woken up. I stopped smoking weed with the others. It was more important for me to be completely clear in my head when I was going to work. The job developed me a lot. The great customer contact helped me, among other things. to get rid of my social anxiety, which held me back from creating social relations outside the 24-hour institution, and I improved basic skills such as situational sense and small talk, something that I had little sense of because of neglect and bullying as a child. But most importantly, the job gave me a feeling of being normal and of fitting in. But the joy was short. Each month I was forced to pay most of my salary to the municipal treasury. The self-payment law didn't make any sense to me. I had been to a sea of talking about activation, and it seemed as if it was the most important goal. How, then, can it be justified to have at the same time a law that removes the incentive to work and keeps young people trapped on public support? After all, this undermines society's interest in strengthening the autonomy and readiness of vulnerable people to work. I just wanted to be normal. Then why the hell would I have to fight the city to keep what finally gave me a feeling of being normal? That's how Helga asks Sofia Nielsen. The job is, she writes, a meeting with the normal world. This gives skills and development that the municipality's offer can rarely cope with. It is simply not okay to make that option unattractive. Every time I had to pay to the city, I felt powerless and ridiculous. As a result, I went down several laps in working hours. Finally, I quit, but it was with tears in my eyes. It just couldn't pay for me to stay. Helga Sofia Nielsen is, of course, right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154329	Thank you. Actually, time's up. And I would just like to say that quotes are not really to be used so widely from the platform. It has to be your own words. Short quotes must be used. But the rapporteur must say whether the party supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154341	That is what I wanted to say, namely that the alternative will vote in favour of the expected post-financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154349	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Marianne Jelved, Radical. No, it's not. That's what I was told. But this is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154401	Thank you so much. I would have prepared myself to make the big sales speech for the proposal, which I think is excellent, and which I would like first of all to thank the Danish People's Party for having made. But I think it has already been said by a great many rapporteurs why it is a matter of course to change the law on this point. The most important reason for me is to see that children and young people placed in care should have the same opportunities as other children, and on this point it is all about being able to earn their own money, experience the pleasure of it, and to be able to do something that benefits others. So we fully support it. I think it is a year and a half since we put forward a proposal to remove parental payments for placements. It is, of course, a different matter, but I would have liked to have known about this proposal or this problem too, because it is a little fussy about it. I remember that the argument at that time, at least on our part, was that it is also quite expensive to administer for the municipalities if they choose to charge this amount. So I actually believe that the hourly wages that the caseworker needs to collect here are almost financing the removal of the collection of the own payment. I also wish that it did not have to enter a great negotiating period, because, as far as I am concerned, it is not very much about the negotiations we are going to have to start, because they are about stability and continuity in placement. So this doesn't have much to do with it. Now that everyone is in complete agreement with the intention, let us get it up and running. However, there should certainly be no doubt at all that we in the SF think that this is a quite sensible proposal, a perfectly clear proposal, and we will both vote in favour of it and support the way in which it will otherwise be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154614	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154621	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that the proposal from the Danish People's Party is sensible, and I would like to be honest and say that this rule that the municipalities can make decisions about children placed in care, so that they can offset the income from leisure jobs, I have not seen it coming. If that is the case today, of course we do not know how many municipalities use it, but no matter what, we must have the report from the Ankestyrelsen. It cannot be two opinions that it makes no sense for these young people to be set off against the income from their leisure jobs. Exactly these need to have the extracurricular job, exactly these need to get into society, and exactly these need to break the negative social heritage. Perhaps neither their father nor their mother goes to work, and then it would be quite unreasonable if we continued to set off. I think that many municipalities do not do so, but time will tell. I would say that we in the Conservative People's Party will help to support the idea that, as soon as we have the report from the Ankestyrelsen, we will find a solution together, and preferably a text together, which will enable us to find a solution to this in a joint report, so that the Danish People's Party's proposal becomes a reality. This is just a matter of time, and with a little patience, we'll get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154815	There's a question. Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154817	Thank you, Mr Conservatives' rapporteur. The rapporteur says that this is a sensible proposal. Now I know that the rapporteur is a good one, so I think that means that it is a very good proposal. There are no two opinions on this either. Why, then, should an investigation be initiated? At first glance, I would say that an investigation also costs money. Now we know that we are talking about something which several rapporteurs have also mentioned which simply cannot be about a huge sum of money, why should we start an investigation and what is to be investigated? I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this. What is the rapporteur's need? Because we know what the facts are, and that is why there may be no reason to make so much of it in the form of a huge investigation. The rapporteur also says that the rapporteur does not know how many these are, but is it really important to know? For now, at least, we have a concrete example, and is that not too much in principle? It's an individual, it's an individual, it's a victim, in this example, a young woman who's put her forehead against a wall and who gets some of the pay she's earned and actually ends up quitting. So why do we need to know about the number of municipalities that do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523154939	But it is the case that as a government and as a minister you have to find out the basis for how we are to dut, compensate, to the municipalities. That's exactly what we don't know right now, i.e. if it's 10 million. kr., if it is 20 million. kr., or whether it's 30 million. kr. Timely care here is that, as a government, if there is a DUT compensation, the money will be available to the municipalities. That is why it is important that we get it into the pool negotiations this autumn so that we can incorporate it and find money for what we all want to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155024	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155025	It is said with the bet pool, but I would say that it is as if we always resort to it and say that when there is something we want it to be found on the bet pool. You could find it somewhere else. Now, for example, we know that Enhedslisten has indicated that they are very positive about this proposal... they are not part of the pool... so you could find it somewhere else. It sounds a little like the rapporteur, as if the rapporteur is part of the government as such. Now I know that the rapporteur is conservative and very conservative, and that is why I think that this proposal is on the left, in relation to saying that we support it, no matter what. What I really want to hear from the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur really believes that this is a huge sum, which is also calculated by municipalities to have as a source of revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155115	First of all, if there's anything to do with it, it's to the right leg. I don't know how many municipalities this is about. We don't know how much it is. We know that we are very close to finding a solution. I guess it's a question of patience... whether it's a month or two or three. Therefore, it is always sensible and timely care to find the background for what the municipalities should be dut'ed for. We don't know that now. That's why the Ankestyrelsen is making a statement. We have done so many, many times before in other areas, and that makes good sense here too, and I am sure that we will find a good solution to this in the new Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155201	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155213	After all, I deliberately chose to divide my speech into two, so I had an introduction in which I liked to express a hope and a dream that I could convince the government, at least, that there was something here that one should actually choose to say yes to as it is now. But now we have to see what happens in the future. I would, of course, like to thank you for the debate we have had today, because for me it has been important to say that we can actually do something from the platform we have each and every one of us as members of parliament to improve conditions for children and young people in care. There is no doubt that it is a particularly vulnerable group who often feel different, who often feel outside the community and who have mental or physical challenges. When I have met those who have been placed, several of them have said that they often feel that they are in a system, that they are, like, inside some boxes, in some systems, and they often find that they are actually perceived as an expense. I think we can actually do away with some of that. In fact, with such a fine little proposal, as I have already said several times, we can do something to change the picture that many children and young people placed in their own situation have of their own lives. I am well aware that having a leisure job is not what saves everything, but a leisure job can of course, as I outlined in my opening speech, and as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, help to change one's life in a positive direction. Of course, it must also be the case that the individual is assessed on the basis of what he or she is able to do, what kind of jobs he or she can have, etc. But here there are some adults who can go in and help advise. That is why I think that with this proposal there are so many positive gains and side gains, and that is why I really think we should just take action now. I am well aware that several or it is, in fact, mainly those who represent the government parties that have mentioned this, that we are in the process of negotiating. Well, now we were told that these are discussions we have. It is also an agreement on discussions that we have. They have started today, which means that we are very far from the goal. There are so many things that need to be clarified. I have also noted that the SF rapporteur asked: why should it be included in a major negotiation process? I completely agree, I do not understand that either. This will be quite simple to tackle now whether it is to the right or to the left. After all, the Minister said that it was a fine proposal and something about giving an outstretched hand as such, and of course I think that is positive. But I just think that hand does not quite reach where it should actually reach. I'm a little sorry we're gonna have to start a major investigation at the Anke Agency. I wonder what the cost of it is. It should not surprise me that it could be almost more expensive than what it would cost to look at the total amount that the municipalities collect from these children and young people. The Social Democrats have said that we need to resolve this, and I think that the Social Democrats should say: we are going to solve it now; we are going to solve it here and now. For that is actually what we can do, instead of waiting for a process in which we are discussing the whole area of the foster family, which can last for quite many months in view of the time it is now in the season. The Left, of course, has also made some positive statements. Unfortunately, the last part of the speech came in. I had hoped that it had not been included, because then we could have reached where the Left had also supported the proposal. But otherwise I have been very, very satisfied with the declarations by the other parties: the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, which was of course positive, but not when they sit in government, and the Alternative and Radicals. The Enhedslisten also made some comments on what we could do. Yet we haven't quite gotten to the end of this. I hope, of course, that there are no municipalities which calculate that they have an income, and if they do, then I would say that it is extremely critical and also something that needs to be tackled vigorously. I know where we are in this parliamentary year, and that is why I hope that the government will go home and sleep on it and wake up fresh tomorrow and have a slightly different attitude to it, so that we can get it voted through before we finish this assembly. Finally, I would like to say that I think we should remember the young girl in the crown, who was actually the one who got my eyes on this issue and who made me both sad and indignant, as I said in my opening speech. She suddenly felt that she was something, that she knew something, and that she hadn't preached the girl that she was putting. That is why I think that if we adopted this proposal, it could help to achieve the objective that we have, that those who are placed should feel absolutely as valuable as everyone else and not feel that they are troublesome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155727	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155741	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523155803	Thank you. After all, the question of the conditions of children in the asylum system is regularly raised in the political debate, and that is what it is doing here today. I think that this is probably because it applies to the conditions of children and that, of course, we all have an interest in ensuring that children are provided with the best possible framework while they are accommodated in our asylum system. The authors of the motion for a resolution B 142 will ensure that an overall plan is drawn up for improving the well-being of children in the Danish asylum system. The plan must include: ensure that the Foreigners' Board takes into account the best interests of the child when the Board makes administrative decisions to move families into the accommodation system. I have to say that, frankly, I believe that the motion for a resolution reflects a lack of insight into the work of our authorities and also of our operators when it is considered that a definite plan should be drawn up to ensure that the best interests of the child are taken into account when the Immigration Authority moves asylum seekers. Today, therefore, the Immigration Authority is already aware of minimising the number of movements in the accommodation system, but it is now the case that our accommodation system is built up in such a way that asylum seekers' accommodation is adapted to the asylum phase they are in. It has also been a political priority under the previous government to set up our accommodation system in this way, and the previous government also established an exit centre to further tighten up and also target the accommodation of asylum seekers needed when it comes to leaving. It is, moreover, a clue which the present government has chosen to follow, but it has also chosen to develop. This means that we operate with a number of different center types, including among others. reception, residence and return and exit centres. This in itself means that asylum seekers will have to move centres during their time in the accommodation system as their asylum case is dealt with. Asylum seekers who are granted asylum in Denmark will, as a rule, only have to move once, namely from a reception centre to a living centre before moving to a municipality. Asylum seekers who are refused asylum will be able to experience more movements if they do not participate in the departure of Denmark. When moving asylum seekers, the Board shall take into account, as far as possible, any particular circumstances of the residents, e.g.: health and social conditions. Such conditions will, for example: could also result in a resident being moved to an asylum centre near a larger hospital or asylum centre from which it would be possible to receive special children's gardens or the like. Furthermore, the decreasing number of asylum seekers accommodated, as a result of fewer asylum seekers arriving in Denmark, has resulted in the number of asylum centres having decreased since end-February 2016 from 98 centres to now 22 centres in May 2018, and the closure of asylum centres has necessarily led to some relocations of some of the residents. When moving residents from an asylum centre to close, the National Immigration Authority attaches considerable importance to moving residents to a nearby centre of the same operator so that children can continue to attend the same school and also to the same leisure activities. Finally, it is possible to move from one asylum centre to another for example. to maintain order at the centers or on the basis of a desire of the residents themselves. Movements are therefore a basic requirement of the Danish asylum system, which we will not get around if we want a well-functioning asylum system, and that is what we want. The authors also point out that the authorities must take account of the possibilities of self-households when moving between centres. Nowadays, asylum seekers who have a pending asylum case, as a starting point, live in self-residence centres. In other words, they are paid cash benefits so that they can do their own shopping and cooking. Residents shall, on the basis of residence centres, until they are either granted a residence permit and transferred to a municipality or until they are definitively refused asylum and have to leave. Residents who are permanently refused asylum and who do not leave within the prescribed period of leave will be transferred to the Avnstrup Home Travel Centre where there is a feeding system. If you contribute to your own departure, you will be allowed to stay at a home-travel centre right up to the exit point. If, however, you do not cooperate with the authorities on your departure, you will be transferred to an exit centre where there is therefore also a feeding system. The government is concerned that rejected asylum seekers who are not legally resident in Denmark either leave immediately or transfer to a home and exit centre. There must be a clear indication that they are no longer welcome in Denmark and that they must return home. Therefore, they should no longer be able to receive cash benefits for self-care purposes, but instead be able to take care of meals. It is therefore a deliberate election by the government that this group is no longer offered cash services and self-care. The authors also point out in the motion for a resolution that the authorities in relation to relocations should take account of children's access to primary school. It is important for me to stress that under the law all children who are accommodated in an asylum centre, regardless of the type of centre, have the opportunity to receive education in a primary school. However, it is up to the municipal school authorities to approve it. In fact, it is also the case that the vast majority of applicants for asylum at school age attend Danish primary schools and, as I also said at the outset, the Foreigners' Board has already today focused on the fact that asylum seekers who, due to centre adjustments, have to move as far as possible to a nearby centre with the same operator and where children will be able to continue in the same school and leisure facilities. On the other hand, if you move to a home or exit centre, you will normally have to move to school, but will still be able to attend primary school, regardless of whether you are the child of a rejected asylum seeker. It is important to ensure that the children who enter the exit centre because their parents refuse to return home continue to have a meaningful everyday life, and therefore the Red Cross is specifically associated with the Travel Centre Soulsmark, which among other things. house children's families who do not want to contribute to their departure. The Red Cross is therefore also responsible for education and activity provision, children's education and leisure and childcare services, as well as health provision. By the way, the Red Cross is the operator of the Avnstrup Home Travel Centre and is responsible for the educational and activity services offered there. Finally, the authors of the proposals mention a number of articles dealing with the general well-being of asylum seekers. In this respect, it is important for me to stress that there are, of course, guidelines for the commitment of the authorities when there is a need to take social measures for children and young people under the age of 18, whether they are in this country as asylum seekers or whether they have an illegal residence in this country. When social measures are to be taken against children in the asylum system, this is done in an interaction between the Social Services Act and the Aliens Act. Under the Aliens Act, the Foreigners' Board is bound to foreigners, including minors who are present in this country as asylum seekers or who are not legally resident in this country. This commitment also includes the implementation of social measures and assistance or support. When the children are at a place of accommodation, operators must pay attention to the physical and mental health of the children. In addition, there is an increased obligation on operators to provide information under the Services Act. There is therefore a close dialogue between the operators' staff at the asylum centres, the municipalities and the Immigration Authority on handling cases involving children and young people under the age of 18. In addition, under the Service Act, the municipality has a general obligation to supervise the conditions under which children and young people under the age of 18 in the municipalities live. The supervisory obligation covers all children, regardless of their place of residence. In the case of asylum seekers, the municipality may initiate social measures, assistance or support under the rules of the Services Act if the need for social measures cannot be met within the asylum system. In the case of a person staying illegally in Denmark, the person is not covered by the Services Act. In practice, however, the municipality can, in special cases, take social measures on the basis of the principles of the Service Act, emergency principles and for the sake of Denmark's international obligations. The social measures taken in relation to children in the asylum and accommodation system must be adapted to the temporary status of the child and parents as asylum seekers or as foreigners without legal residence in Denmark. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that the Foreign Affairs Agency is already focusing on ensuring that children in the asylum system are not subjected to unnecessary relocations. Having said that, the government also believes that there should be a difference between whether you are an asylum seeker in Denmark or whether you have refused asylum seekers and are staying illegally in Denmark. This comes among other things. in terms of the accommodation conditions offered. This means, among other things, that rejected asylum seekers must move from a self-residence centre to a home or exit centre with a feeding system, that they must then stay until they leave Denmark, and this can either be done voluntarily or by compulsion. So on that basis, the government cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161001	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161004	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it was characteristic of the answer that the Minister referred solely to the way the system works on how it is built up and what obligations there are, and she is quite convinced that you also follow what you have to follow. But she does not relate at all to the reality that has been revealed, not only in some newspaper articles, but also in reports from the Danish Refugee Aid and the Red Cross, etc., where you can see that it is actually a problem that there are children who are miserable as they do, and that it has very, very major consequences for those children, that they are miserable in that way, and that it can have a very, very major impact on how those children are to develop further. That is why it is very incomprehensible to some of us that the government does not have more attention to this problem. In other words, we may have different opinions about how the Danish policy on foreigners should be combined, and we have also very much disagreed with the Minister and the government in a number of its actions. However, I think we should be able to agree that the children who live here in Denmark cannot be treated as badly as is the case here. And I am disappointed that the Minister is not aware of that part of the problem at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161146	At first glance there was not really a question, but it was more of a comment, and that is, of course, fair enough. But I can say that, of course, I am fully aware that Danish Refugee Aid has sent us a report, and it will of course also be involved in the work in this area. But I would also like to say, as I have explained here, that I simply do not mean to make an Anders Fogh statement that there is something to come for here. I believe that the children are being treated well, and so should they. Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161219	Now there is an opportunity to make comments here in the brief remarks which I hope the Minister will then reply to and comment on. But I can't believe she can just reject it in that way. I just don't get it. I simply cannot believe that we can say that there is nothing to come for, and use that old Anders Fogh expression, which was said in a completely different context, moreover, since it has been demonstrated time and time again by the media, in reports from different places, that there is very much something to come for, and that we have a common challenge with regard to those children who are at risk of having very major problems, because we are so little aware of their specific challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161321	Well now I can say that I have been around quite a lot of asylum centres and both home and exit centres, and we are, of course, following on from the ministry, and I myself am doing so, this area very closely. And I simply believe that the children who live in accommodation centres and reception centres and return and exit centres have a daily life that we can easily be familiar with. It is clear that they do not have an everyday life that all other children in Denmark have, but we cannot give them that either. Some of these children are children who have to go home, but that does not mean that they should not have children, for example. education. They will, and so will they. And there are also leisure activities. There's kind of a really good framework for these kids. And there has to be a difference of opinion about that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161419	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161421	Thank you. In the 2012 asylum agreement, there was a key part that was that children and children's families should not be transferred to these exit centres until there was an imminent deployment. After all, the government changed that with the support of the Social Democrats. This means that the kids can sit with their parents in these exit centers indefinitely. In any case, I know that per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person Well, it's 50 out of 70 kids who couldn't get out of these centres in the near future. That's when we hear it's not good for the kids. We hear a whole series of calls. I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister thinks it is fair that the government should take the children hostage in this way to pressure the parents to leave Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161533	Well, I'm gonna have to tell sir. Nikolaj Villumsen that it is not the government that takes the children hostage, it is the parents who take their children hostage. They could go home tomorrow, but they won't go home tomorrow. They refuse to go home. They have no basis for being in Denmark, otherwise they were not at an exit centre. They have been denied asylum. Not only have they been denied asylum, they have also been tried in the Refugee Board. This means that when you have a court-like board that makes exactly the same decision as the Foreigners' Board, then I can only trust that they do not have a basis for being in Denmark. That's why they have to go home. So I'd like to disapprove of the fact that sir... Nikolaj Villumsen says the government is taking these children hostage. We don't. It's the parents who take their children hostage. We can have many opinions about that. I have mine, and it's that the parents can't be familiar with that. But as long as they're here, we're gonna take care of those kids in a way, so they, for example. Also goes to school.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161639	Thank you. One can at least say that it is the Minister and the government who choose to leave these children in a centre, knowing that the children are completely innocent and not responsible for whether or not their families are going home. It's a decision that lies with the parents. And then you choose to put the kids in this situation, where the alarm is sounded and which is said to be harmful to them, knowing that they can sit there indefinitely. After all, this is a decision for which the Minister must stand by. I would just like to hear from the Minister: on what is the Minister based when she says that this is not to the detriment of the children, as the Minister said earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161723	In fact, I think it is very damaging to the children that their parents refuse to leave Denmark in this way. I believe that it is to the great detriment of children that their parents are in this way completely opposed and do not accept a factual, good and deep procedure in relation to their asylum case. I understand that they would rather be in Denmark than go home to the home country from which they came, but it is of no use. When you don't need protection, you can't stay in Denmark, and then you have to leave. That's why I think these parents are taking their children hostage. I can have my opinion on that and whatever I want, but I do not think it is right and I do not think it is a way of treating your children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161807	The next questioner is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161810	Thank you. Now we came to the heart, as we have heard up to several times from the Minister in the consultations we have had on it: that the Minister believes that it is precisely the parents who take their children hostage. If that is the case, does the Minister still not think that we have a responsibility for the children who sit there for many months and, for some, for up to several years? The ball lands with us when it comes to the children. It is the parents who make these decisions and whether you agree or disagree with the Minister that it is the parents who take their children hostage, then the responsibility falls with us at least according to me. That is where I think the Minister and I disagree. So I would really like the Minister to comment on it because the ball is landing with us. We have a responsibility for these children. We need to look at how we treat these kids so they don't get traumatized. Now that Danish Refugee Aid comes up with a report describing that we have to do something because otherwise we risk losing these children on the floor, and it can also risk harming us in terms of security, if they are miserable when they come back to their homeland, I would like to ask what the Minister is going to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523161932	Mrs Josephine Fock asks: do we have a responsibility for these children? Yes, we do, because their parents seem to be unable to do so. At any rate, they have completely opposed all the principles and refuse to leave the country, even if they do not have the right to be here and thus take their children hostage. Do we have a responsibility? We do. That's why we're giving them a roof over their heads. That's why we feed them. That's why they get dressed. That's why there's schooling for them. That is why there are leisure activities. So, yes, we take that responsibility, Mrs. Josephine Fock. Of course we do, and I think we should. Then Mrs Josephine Fock asks again about the report from Danish Refugee Aid. What I can say is that we have, of course, read this with great interest in the ministry, and that is also part of the further work. This must be the case when people send in reports, but that does not mean that I agree entirely with one of them, because I am not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162028	Thank you for your answer: then we have that responsibility. I also agree that we are putting clothes on their bodies, that we are giving them leisure activities and that we are providing opportunities for education. But that doesn't change the fact that a lot of these kids are really, really terrible. Therefore, I find it hard to understand that the Minister will not be involved in doing some more things to help these children so that they can have a slightly more normal family life. Because we can't blame these kids for what their parents decide. It is their parents who go through the asylum system. It is not the children, and it is not the children's responsibility, and that is why we need to help these children more than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162114	I have to say that I fully measure the way we treat both children and adults in our asylum system and also the rejected asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162124	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the number of rapporteur speakers, and the first one on the floor is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162141	Thank you. There is no doubt that children of asylum seekers have had a tough start in life, and harsh is even an understatement. Many have fled from war and destruction, the migrants who come here and who do not necessarily receive asylum have also been taken from their homes for very real reasons, and we as a society have a responsibility for the proper treatment of those children while they are in our country. The best interests of the child are a key consideration in the organisation of our asylum system, but that is not the only consideration. We must also take into account the capacity of our operators, and we must ensure that our asylum system cannot be misused as an illegal road to Europe for economic immigrants. In short, our asylum system must balance a number of different and sometimes even contradictory considerations against each other. Social democracy has helped to improve the conditions of children in the asylum system on several occasions. We have strengthened the supervision of children at asylum centres following a number of cases of abuse and abuse that have taken place on Langeland. We have ensured that staff have better opportunities to maintain order, and we have ensured that child brides do not have to be accommodated with their adult spouses. This does not alter the fact that an asylum centre will never be an ideal place for children. It is a place where you stay temporarily until a decision is taken on whether you are entitled to protection in Denmark; there is good and nutritious food, there is health provision and children can go to institution and school, but it is and remains a temporary measure. The child's best interests are crucial. But that is not the only consideration we need to take. Nowhere will it be more obvious than in our exit centres when parents who have been refused asylum refuse to respect the decision of the Refugee Board and thus maintain their children in a situation which should have been short-lived. Here the child's best interests come together with another consideration, namely that we cannot have legislation that says you can come here, get a refusal of asylum, refuse to cooperate to leave, and then end up with your children being granted a residence permit. This will make Denmark a magnet for migrants who are not entitled to stay in Denmark and Europe. This is also an important consideration, because nothing undermines the international asylum system as much as the increasing number of rejected asylum seekers staying in Western Europe does. This is a huge challenge for the refugee system at all. And if we want the refugees who have a need for protection, that is good, then we must and must be quite cash to those who use the system as an illegal road to Europe. That is precisely why, and because there are so many considerations that need to be balanced against each other, in this difficult discussion, we do not think that a resolution requiring the government to draw up a plan to take more care of a particular concern is the right way to go. Instead, we would call on the proposers of the SF to draw up a report in committee which could better balance the many different considerations with each other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162433	There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162437	Thank you. It is clear that if an asylum seeker is rejected, in other words his or her case will be rejected, the person will, of course, have to go home. The question is, what do you do to motivate people to go home? You can provide guidance, you can ensure better support, or, as is happening now, you can use the children to try to pressure the parents, and that is the reality. This is happening at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark. There the children live according to Danish Refugee Aid, so that they are miserable, so that they become anxious, aggressive and restless because they are at the center for an indefinite period of time. Then I would just like to hear from the Social Democrats when they say that a whole range of factors must be taken into account: why is consideration of the child's best interests not the most important thing for the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162538	That's why it's in the law, and that's why we keep following this area very, very closely. But the point is, when it comes to the examples that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen mentions that once people are at an exit center and when it is that the children start to get sick which is horrible, it is because all other options are exhausted. There have been counseled even many times that there have been offers of financial compensation and help to move back. A wide range of things have been offered which make it easier for the individual family, who have had every opportunity to have their cases appealed, to actually get back to where they belong when they have been refused residence in Denmark. So the fact that a family chooses to stay in an exit centre and refuses to go home shows that all other options have been exhausted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162637	But that is simply not true. The Enhedslisten, in cooperation with the previous government, made a number of support schemes and temporary help for people who voluntarily went home, and that has been stopped. So these are opportunities that could be resumed and given today. Likewise, we made an agreement in 2012, which made it impossible to put children in unless there was an imminent return journey that was certain to take place. So there are other options, and I would just like to know why it is that Peter Sabroe's old party, which otherwise took the lead in the defence of children's rights, now chooses a situation in which consideration of the best interests of children is actually placed in the interests of scaring refugees from coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162730-2	We do not use and abuse children either to scare refugees from coming to Denmark, but we take the situation seriously, that in 2015 and subsequently and still away there is a historically serious both refugee and migrant crisis across Europe and, as such, across the world for that matter, and that the asylum system has more or less collapsed completely. And part of the reason why the asylum system has collapsed, which means that the people who really need protection cannot have it, is that in Europe as a whole there are more than 2.5 million rejected asylum seekers who refuse to go home. It is, of course, part of the overall picture and all the considerations that have to be taken into account, and that is also the consideration we weigh when we discuss these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162817	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162820	It is true that there are many considerations to take into account in all of this, and I fully agree that this is a major challenge that we face throughout Europe. I also agree that it might be a good idea to write a report on this if we can do it. But what I just do not understand is why, given that this is the case, there are families who live so many months on, for example. Excursion centre Soulsmark and there are many different reasons why we can go into this, but which I shouldn't mention here so can't offer them anything as simple and simple as that they, for example. can cook their own food. I understand from the government, from our minister, that it just doesn't work out; when they don't want to go home, they shouldn't be allowed to cook their own food. Well, how small can it be, if I may say so? Could we not at least give them the opportunity to have a family life? And couldn't you, now that you're making these many different moves, it's also a very big problem, and I know you're trying to take more account of it, let the child's best interests be completely, all the way to the fore? That is what we want the government to work a little more purposefully on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523162951	I understand that, too. I actually share a number of those views, and I am as appalled as everyone else when I read various news stories. As I have said, we simply believe that there are a large number of very different considerations in this matter which must be balanced against each other and that, moreover, it is also the responsibility of the government and the authorities to be the executive and to ensure that these things work and that the best interests of the child are guaranteed, and it is our task in the Folketing to control it. That is also why we are pointing out in this case that it would perhaps be more obvious that we are trying to produce a joint report text rather than agreeing on a resolution requiring the government to draw up a plan for something particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163037	Yeah, yeah, but it's kind of fine if we do it. But I still do not think that the Social Democrat rapporteur is responding to that. Why could one not agree that the families in Soulsmark can be allowed to cook their own food? After all, it is a very trivial thing that most families practice and which is an important part of family life. What's wrong with that? Why do they have to be punished like that? It's just that I don't understand, so it's absolutely necessary to punish them with these little things where you have to do it as horribly as possible for them. I just don't get it. It's too small. Isn't that for the Social Democracy too?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163126	For us, it is not about whether it is small or not. Our starting point is, of course, that an asylum centre, both when you come here and when you have to leave here, i.e. an exit centre, is a temporary situation in which you have to find yourself. There are, of course, some considerations about capacity and there is a reflection on how to do it in the field, etc., but it is important that it is temporary. What can be the fear if it is that you set up kitchens in every living room, kitchens in every room where families live, is that you then set up more than temporary homes, and that is all the consideration that needs to be balanced against each other. Because I think, on the other hand, that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is right about how small it can really be, and whether one should not consider letting that family, while it is now waiting to leave, cook its own food. What is just crucial for us is that it is a temporary situation because they have been rejected and have tried all the appeals and there is no possibility that they can stay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163231	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163234	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to put the same question to the rapporteur as I did to the Minister, since it is the parents who are responsible for the children. But the parents don't choose to go home for many reasons, and then we take over responsibility for these children, as I see it. I would like the Social Democratic Party to be a little more accommodating than the Minister in relation to how we treat these children, and I do not think I can hear that from the rapporteur. In other words, it sounds as if the Social Democracy, if they had the power of government, would in fact continue the treatment of the children that they are being given now. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163324	In any case, the rapporteur understands that, in relation to this specific resolution, we believe that a report should be drawn up, and we are always willing to discuss how best to ensure the best interests of the child. But it is also just important for us to state that if we are to ensure the best interests of the child and the child's interest, it is that they are given healthy and nutritious food, and it is that they have access to school and leisure activities, but that they and the family also know all the time and that is tragic for the individual family, whether they have fled from war or disaster or they are economic migrants, for whatever reason they have left that, according to the legislation of Denmark and Europe, they have no right to stay here. And we have to stick to that starting point. Otherwise it will not be possible to restore the asylum system, so that we actually have an opportunity to protect more people who have a real need for protection in the sense of the conventions and to get rid of those who do not need it in the sense of the conventions. And it's just crucial for us. In relation to the other, it has to be said that I agree. Of course, as a country, we always have a responsibility for each individual and for each child, but parents are the parents. After all, we have not taken over being of age to the individual child; we have not deprived the parents of authority over the child. It is all else equal still away the parents who choose for one reason or another that they do not want to go out, even though they have been told, according to Danish legislation and after testing all the possibilities, that they cannot stay here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163501	Now the rapporteur says that the rapporteur would like to contribute to a report. However, I find it difficult to hear what the rapporteur wants to do better for children. For now the question has been asked about the specific example, which is something that gives a great deal of criticism, that is, why they cannot cook together, and now the rapporteur has answered it to the SF's rapporteur, so there is no reason for me to ask that question. But how about this report from Danish Refugee Aid? What is the rapporteur's position on it? What does the rapporteur think we need to improve on these children?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163540	I think that the report from Danish Refugee Aid is precisely one of the things that can be taken into account in the discussion that I hope will come during the committee debate and when it is that a report needs to be made. We have also read it, and we are appalled in every possible way. So are we, every time there's a news story like this. Unfortunately, I myself have not had occasion to visit either Soulsmark or a similar exit centre, but one is deeply appalled at what one hears. Once again, however, I would just like to recall and remind the rapporteur of the Alternative that there are some considerations that must be weighed against each other, and that is what we hope to find out in a joint report text in some way or other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163622	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Bendixen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523163631	Thank you. With this proposal, the Socialist People's Party wants greater consideration to be given to the well-being of children at asylum centres, including fewer relocations between centres and the possibility of self-maintaining and access to primary school. The proposal points to a number of problems such as room conditions, housing conditions and cafeteria arrangements. Overall, it is only important to remember that you are free to choose to leave Denmark at any time you wish, and when you as parents choose to refuse to leave Denmark, you also make that choice on behalf of your children. So you are not forced to stay in Soulsmark, and it is precisely residents who are not legally resident in Denmark. If, as parents, you consider that an illegal stay in Denmark is still better for your children, then it is probably not the cafeteria scheme or the lack of a self-residence team that makes life miserable for your family. Having said that, we have legislation in this area, the Services Act, which must, of course, be complied with. The same applies, of course, to rejected asylum seekers, where they must be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Services Act, as they are not directly covered by the law. If you read the reports to which the authors of the motion refer, it is quite clear, unfortunately, that employees do not see it as having to report on a child as equal for asylum children and for Danish children. Among other things: there is an employee who says: you could inform them all in principle, they all feel bad. I think the border is a little hard to find. I have seen examples of things where you would have reacted if it had been Danish children. They all live up to the provisions of the Service Act, so that they could or should be acted upon all of them. But we can't do that on all of them, or we don't. It is therefore the employees who choose not to make the notifications, despite the fact that they would have done so to a Danish child. They are thus circumventing their stricter notification obligation by not doing so. In addition, the municipalities tell us that they generally receive very few notifications from the centres. As such, it is not the law that is wrong with it; it is simply the employees' perception of when to notify, there is a problem. The proposers want to limit the use of relocations between the centres in order to spare the children, which of course is affected by moving. Everyone does, but these movements actually happen sometimes to spare the child, for example. in cases where there may be violence around the child, violence in the family or out-of-action behaviour, which of course also adversely affects children. If you go in and limit the centres' scope for internal relocations, you are also restricting them to helping children in the way they are now doing, and we do not want to do so in the Danish People's Party. However, we are open to the fact that if you are guilty of violence at a centre or are a nuisance to your surroundings and are therefore also a nuisance to those children, then you are simply sent out of Denmark and immediately home. In this way, you can also limit the need to move your children around. When it comes to owning a household, we have to say that, in our own opinion, if you really come from such poor conditions in a home country that you voluntarily choose to stay illegally in Denmark, eating together is probably the least problem we have. Moreover, we have to say that there are actually many positive things in eating with other people. You can see that, for example. in the care of the elderly, where the elderly actually benefit greatly from eating with other elderly people. In the same way, it is beneficial to have a social meal and conversation with others who are in exactly the same situation as you. Furthermore, the Ombudsman's report shows that food can be taken into your room if circumstances justify it. Children already have access to school today. What emerges from the reports we can read is that they themselves choose to have absenteeism from school, among other things. Because they must have family responsibilities. They may be interpretations, or they may want to be at home with a mother who is ill. So it is not the law that prevents children from going to school. Furthermore, the Red Cross report shows that it is not possible to separate the meaning of the accommodation conditions in Soulsmark from the general situation of the families. Therefore, we trust that both the centres and the employees are doing the best possible for the residents they have. So I must just say that when we are here today talking about the conditions for children who are not Danish citizens, it is so surprising that the very authors of the motion did not want to support a social task force in order to improve conditions for Greenlandic children, who are indeed Danish citizens. Because Greenland has autonomy, we are in a situation where Greenlandic children have been subjected to violence for decades, victims of incest, yes, they are starving, while a Danish Parliament is more concerned with Greenland's right to self-government. The Danish People's Party cannot support this resolution, as it seems to us to be an empty round. We would rather limit the number of those who come here. It will also have as a consequence that there will be fewer residents in the centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164130	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164134	I shall not comment on the Danish People's Party's relationship with family life and what is best for families. I do not know whether the rapporteur himself, because it is so healthy, eats with so-called like-minded people every night, but I do not think she does. I think she'd prefer to be allowed to eat tonight with her family. But what I would like to ask is that the Danish People's Party's Martin Henriksen said to Information here in April that there must in principle be a difference between Danish children and asylum children, that there must in principle be a difference in how to treat the two groups. I would like to hear: is it the position of the Danish People's Party that in this way, in principle, asylum children should be treated less favourably than they treat Danish children?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164235	That's what Mr. Martin Henriksen has said that there is a difference between being a citizen and not being a citizen. And this means that we in the Danish People's Party want first and foremost to uphold the rights and opportunities of citizens. This does not mean that you have to treat other people badly; it just means that you may not have the right to be in a five-star hotel, but maybe at a three-star hotel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164259	If you've been in Soulsmark, I don't think you'll feel very relevant to talk about either five-star or three-star hotels. It's a completely irresponsible picture to give of this. What I am asking is: Does the Danish People's Party really believe that in principle this is the way to provide asylum seekers with a worse treatment than that given to Danish children? In other words, should it be second-class children in relation to Danish children who, because they are Danish citizens, must have a primary, primary treatment? Whether it's five-star, three-star or one-star hotels is completely irrelevant in this context. In fact, I would have liked to have gone into a little more detail about the human vision behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164346	I have to say, unfortunately, that I simply could not hear the last half of what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said, but I heard the first half. I've been to Soulsmark myself. It was excellent food, it was excellent conditions, and I think we can be familiar with that. Then there is nothing about the fact that we in the Danish People's Party believe that we should treat some less in principle than others. We just think that being a citizen is something very special, that it is something unique, and we know that the Socialist People's Party does not give a damn about that. But for us, it is quite important that our citizens come first. This does not mean that these children should be treated badly, and I certainly do not think they will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164421	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164429	Thank you, sir. President. With the motion for a resolution here, the SF wants us to draw up a plan to ensure that the Foreigners' Authority takes into account the child's best interests in relation to moving from one asylum centre to another. I must honestly say that I think this resolution is out of step with reality. Because if you read the SF's proposal closely, you could get the impression that the Foreigners' Board is currently not taking into account the best interests of the child when moving asylum seekers, and that is, of course, directly contrary to the truth. I know that the Foreign Affairs Agency is already aware of minimising the number of relocations, especially when there are children involved, in the accommodation system. Nobody gets moved just for fun. That doesn't mean there's no movement. This is because we now have the asylum system that we have, among other things. Because we have, and we have already mentioned this in this debate, situations where, for example, we have. rejected asylum seekers refuse to cooperate, even though they should actually go home. We have also, fortunately, had a large number of asylum centres closed because of the now historically low asylum pressure, not least due to the government's many austerity measures, which the SF has not always been involved in. However, when relocations occur, the Foreigners' Board takes considerable account of the child's best interests. If, for example, is the opportunity to move a resident to a center near where the children already go to school, it is something that you also look at, of course. In other words, the motion for a resolution here gives the impression that the SF does not really have an insight into how our authorities already handle relocations in the asylum centres. As has been said, these movements are based on the asylum system we have, and here asylum seekers are accommodated in different centres, after of course what stage their case is in. We have different types of centre such as reception, residence, return and exit centres. This naturally means that asylum seekers must move centres during their time in the system and, of course, the more they cooperate with the authorities from day one in the asylum phase or if they have been refused, the more flexible the system is and the better it is often for children too. In addition, there may of course be relocations in cases where there is a need to maintain order or if the residents themselves want to move. The relocations are therefore a completely inevitable part of a modern asylum system, an asylum system, with which I would remind you that the previous government, with which SF was also involved at one time, also worked. Within this framework, of course, we must take account of the children, so that they are not subjected to unnecessary relocations, and the Immigration Authority already does so. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164732	There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164736	It was a very echo of the Minister's reply, and there is nothing unnatural about that, since they are from the same party and the speech probably has been around the ministry, I would guess. However, in relation to the fact that there is talk of a lack of insight, it is a difficult discussion to take, especially in short remarks. However, I would just like to point out that in the report they have produced here, Danish Refugee Aid points out that there are very, very serious problems about the well-being of children. I do not know whether Danish Refugee Aid has a lack of insight, nor do I know whether the numerous articles that have been in the media, in the newspapers, on the radio lately show a lack of insight. So I don't think that argument is fair to use in such an important discussion as this one. That is why I think that Mr. Marcus Knuth instead of being an echo of the minister should think for himself and consider whether it would not be relevant that the Left too took this issue more seriously than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164847	But I would like to say that I am pleased that a minister from the Left Party and a rapporteur from the Left Party are looking at things in the same way. But besides that, I'm sorry. I was not in the Folketing myself when SF was in a government, so I cannot say with a guarantee whether there were also relocations of children's families in the asylum system when the SF itself was in government. But I will assume that was the case and I will assume that the immigration authorities took exactly the same consideration of the child's best interests as they do today. Yes, of course I am aware that there are problems in the asylum centres. But the main problem we have been debating here today is, of course, when parents take their children hostage, even if they are not entitled to protection, even if they should go back to their country of origin because they are not threatened. If you refuse to travel, then it is not the system that is responsible here; then it is the parents themselves. If you are not entitled to asylum, you should go home. And that is the real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523164952	But what we can just see is that many people are sitting for many months, for example. Travel centre Soulsmark. There may be many different reasons for this which we do not need to discuss here. But then it is just that instead of discussing guilt and all sorts of things about what has happened in the past, we say that we can see that there has been a report here, among other things. from Danish Refugee Aid, it has emerged in articles in various places that there is a problem about the well-being of children. I think we need to take this more seriously than what the Left Party is doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165031	As I said just now, I fully acknowledge that there are problems, among others. related to families who should go home and who do not have the right to be in Denmark but who refuse to go home. I consider that to be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165047	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165049	Thank you. The Left rapporteur says that there are no unnecessary relocations. So, what you have chosen to do from the government, contrary to what practice was earlier on the basis of the 2012 agreement, is to move children to the Travel Centre Sjælsmark, although there is no prospect that they will soon travel with their families. That then means that per. December 15, 2017 saw a situation in which 50 of 70 children at the Travel Center Sjælsmark came from countries that do not accept television godships. That is to say, they stood to sit in the Travel Center Soulsmark indefinitely, at least if their parents maintained not to go home, and the children are not guilty of that decision. That is what Danish Refugee Aid says leads to distrust for the children, and I would just like to hear from the rapporteur from the Left: is it really the case that we in Denmark can be familiar with having children in a situation where they are miserable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165159-2	I believe that we have a responsibility to help people get back to their country of origin as soon as possible if it is the case that they are not entitled to asylum. If you are not entitled to asylum, it is because you have to go home, and there is the best we can do, to try to help people come back, and that is not the way it is. And in this whole process, we know that the Foreigners' Authority takes account of the children, but the only ones who can actually correct the situation they are in are the parents. Now Mr. Holger K. Nielsen saw that we should not talk about guilt, but I think the parents have a huge responsibility. If they have come to Denmark and do not have a need for protection, then the best thing they can do is to go home again so that children can come home to their home country and get started in school and get started on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165253	Well, of course the parents have a responsibility, but so does the government, and so does the Left. When you choose to put children in a situation where they are to sit indefinitely in the Travel Centre Zealand, knowing that their parents do not intend to go out, knowing that the country they come from does not accept forcibly sent from Denmark, you have a responsibility, and you have to stand up for that. And when Danish Refugee Aid says that it leads to the mistrust of children, then the rapporteur of the Left will have to stand up for why the Left can accept that these children are miserable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165330	Let us try to turn the issue upside down and say: OK, then we move people who have been denied asylum to a municipality, and we train them in the Danish system, despite the fact that they have been refused. What would happen then? Firstly, we would undermine the entire system we have at all, the whole international system that we have, including some of the conventions that are undermining them, and, in addition, we would make Denmark a hundred per cent refugee magnet by sending out a signal to the traffickers that if you have been denied asylum in Denmark, you can only expect asylum. If you send that message to the outside world, we will be an asylum magnet, and I do not think that would be good for Denmark in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165411	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165413	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is using the same rhetoric as the minister, and it may be no wonder that it is the parents who are holding their children hostage. So I ask again: can we then say that they do, but does it still not mean that we must ensure that these children have as normal a child's life as possible and that they are not traumatized? Don't we as a community have an obligation to this to these children? And if we think further into the future, if these children are traumatized and come home to their homeland, who can know what happens to them, also in relation to their attitude towards the West and Europe? Well, don't we have every possible interest in giving these kids as normal a family life as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165506	Yes, we do, and that is also why a wide range of leisure facilities, educational services, etc. are already being offered, but this must, of course, be done within the framework of the system that we have. This means that if you have been refused asylum, you should not be integrated into Danish society as a family with the prospect of being able to stay in Denmark; then you should be the place that is now appropriate in relation to your case, for example. in an exit centre because you have to go home to your home country because you have not been persecuted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165535	And that's true, no matter what happens to these kids? It's a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165544	I heard it was a question. As I said, we have set a framework in the exit centre, where we do the right thing, very much for children to have as normal a daily life as possible. The alternative of starting to say that in Denmark one can then just expect asylum, perhaps sounds like a hearty thought for the alternative, but try to think that thought to the end and see what it will do about the whole international system and what it will do about the pressure from asylum seekers on the Danish borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165616	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165626	Thank you. I would like to thank the SF for the initiative. There is no doubt that the situation of children in particular at the Sjælsmark exit centre is quite unreasonable and deeply detrimental to their well-being and that children living in other asylum centres for a long time also have problems that could be solved or reduced if the authorities placed more emphasis on the well-being of children. It is clear, of course, that when an asylum seeker has been refused his or her application for asylum, he or she must return home. That goes without saying. The Unity List was included in the Asylum Agreement in 2012, and it was absolutely crucial to make it clear that children's families can only be transferred to exit centres when there is an imminent exit. This was a crucial part of the agreement as we thought it was deeply damaging for children to sit for several years in asylum centres. But the current government has changed that practice, unfortunately with the support of the Socialists. This means that children are now sitting indefinitely waiting in the Sjælsmark exit center, often without access to primary school, away from the friends and leisure interests they had when they lived outside the center. It is not the children's fault whether the family stays in Denmark or not, it is not their decision. They're completely innocent in this case. So when the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration claims that it is the parents who take the children hostage to avoid returning home, then the reality is that it is equally the Minister and the Danish Government who take the children hostage to force the parents to travel. And a rule of law does not take children hostage. Denmark should not take children hostage. We know that 50 of the 70 children under 18 are under 18 per year. 15 December 2017 was in the Sjælsmark exit centre, coming from countries that do not accept forcibly sent citizens. Thus there is no prospect of the children coming home immediately, but instead of the children being trapped on the Sjælsmark Outside Center indefinitely, contrary to what is beneficial to the children. Instead, we should work actively to improve support schemes for those who voluntarily choose to leave, and to improve guidance in relation to the threat picture and future opportunities in the home country. A comprehensive plan for improving the well-being of children in the asylum system is very much needed. The Enhedslisten can therefore support the SF proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165910	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165913	The rapporteur says that there are a number of countries which do not receive rejected asylum seekers who, in this case, do not have a need for protection, with coercion, and the rapporteur says that there is therefore no prospect of these families coming home. Is it me who misunderstands things, or could they not just go home if they went home voluntarily and thus avoid creating the problems we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523165941	Yes, it is a decision that parents could make, but it is not a decision that children can make, and that is why we in the Enhedslist believe that consideration for children should be at the top. We should take into account that children are not miserable. We have a responsibility for this, and this is the responsibility of the government when you choose to take a big look at the warnings coming from, for example, Danish Refugee Aid, that there is distrust, on the basis of a decision to transfer children's families and thus children to the Travel Centre Sjælsmark, knowing that they can sit there indefinitely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170018	Then it is not quite right to say that there is no prospect of it, for the view is simply blocked by the parents. But for those parents who then choose to put their heels in and not to travel, the rapporteur clearly wants a change in the system. Does the rapporteur think that it would be a good thing if we were to say: 'Well, if you have rejected asylum seekers and you refuse to go home, you can just wait for asylum, as long as you wait long enough?'
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170046	No, Enhedslisten believes that when you are refused asylum, you have to go home. That is why we also helped to establish an asylum agreement in 2012, which meant, for example, that children were not transferred to exit centres until there was an imminent return journey. That is exactly the opposite of the decision of the government to transfer children, knowing that they can sit there indefinitely. We believe that we should go home, but we also believe that much more guidance and support should be used, as that is what has proved to be effective in the previous arrangements that have existed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170124	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170131	Thank you. The authors of the comments state here that children's well-being in the Danish asylum system is not given priority, that children's schooling is not taken into account sufficiently, but is simply thrown around in Denmark at will. I just think it is very significant that the proposal states that the government is required to draw up a plan. For if SF had some real political proposals on how to change the arrangements for the Danish asylum system, then they would probably have been put forward. But that is clearly not the case, so I believe that the symbol is empty instead. Already today, it is being minimized to move around children. We have gone from an asylum situation that we had in 2015 to what we see today, and that means, of course, that you have to move around with a lot of people. It goes without saying that when it comes to reducing capacity, you have to adapt it and move people around. As other rapporteurs have said, our asylum system is at the same time such that accommodation is linked to the asylum phase, and that also means moving when your asylum application is being dealt with. If the SF has good proposals on how to improve the conditions for children in our asylum system without compromising the strict immigration policy, then I think they should put forward the proposals. Until then, however, I can see that the authorities are doing their best to take account of the well-being of children. I would also like to say that it is, of course, hard to be a refugee, especially for children. You live with an uncertainty every day, both as to whether you can be moved, but also as to whether you can be rejected. The conditions in the refugee centres will never be like the conditions in Danish society, but, frankly, I think that we should make proposals for those improvements rather than requiring the government to come up with a plan. Frankly, I think that is too thin, so the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170355	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170359	We are therefore willing to discuss this at any time with the government and others who will take this seriously, and therefore I am also looking forward to us perhaps writing a report in committee after this. However, it is the government which is responsible for this area and which has the administrative competence in relation to it, and when we can see that there are a number of problems outlined in various reports and in public, it is surely not unreasonable that it is the government that comes up with an initiative in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170441	After all, the government is saying here by the Minister and also by the governing parties that we think that the conditions offered are reasonable. SF doesn't think so. I think that is quite real, but then I just think SF should come up with some suggestions on how to improve conditions. I think it is a free round that you can look up that you want everything but that you do not put a single proposal on the table. What do you want? This can only be done, and then we can discuss something really political. But just to admit that the government is being ordered to make a plan, I think it's thin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170520	Well, that's not true. Well, we have discussed the way in which we eat in Soulsmark before here in the debate. To allow families to cook their own food, several experts point out that a very, very concrete improvement in family conditions and children's well-being would be possible if they were allowed to have a family life, as the rapporteur does at home. This is a very, very near and, in fact, small proposal, but one refuses to do so because it seems that it is contrary to the strict foreign policy. That's where I think the chain's completely jumping off. I must then ask whether it has also jumped off for the Liberal Alliance on that point. Is one here too so petty that one thinks that the fact that one can cook one's own food is in contrast to a strict foreign policy? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170615	No, but there is no doubt that there are some political differences between the Liberal Alliance and the Socialist People's Party. I believe that what needs to be made clear is that this is a temporary situation, and it is absolutely crucial for us, especially at the exit centres, that there is no incentive to stay in the country. And you may think that is ruthless and cold, but that is how we really feel, that when you have no legal residence in Denmark, you should not be here, and then we should not offer good conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170653	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170655	Thank you. Now it is the case that Danish Refugee Aid has sounded the alarm and said that the children at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark are miserable, and that is why SF has made this proposal. And we are a large number of parties supporting it. The government then refuses to want to draw up a plan, and that is something that we have to face up to. There I would just like to hear from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur why the Liberal Alliance does not want to respond when Danish Refugee Aid sounds the alarm and says that the children in the Travel Center Soulsmark are miserable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170735	First of all, I have explained that the terms offered are reasonable. You may disagree with that, you may think that they are not reasonable, but then you can just put forward some suggestions for improvement. As I said, I think it is very, very thin to come and ask the government for a plan. You have every opportunity to make political proposals as a party here in the Folketing, and if you are more parties who think this is quite wrong, then you can join forces and brainstorm on what it takes. But just to ask the government to come up with a plan, I think I'm thin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170813	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170817	Thank you. In other words, I think that a question of child distrust is too important to engage in polemics, and that is, frankly, what the rapporteur is doing when, like the rapporteur, he is mocking a really sensible proposal, at least a serious proposal to draw up a plan in the light of the alarm that some children are miserable. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur without controversy: do you really want to stand up in the Liberal Alliance for children who are miserable in the Travel Centre Soulsmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170854	Well, I don't really think I'd call this a serious proposal. I do not think it is serious that you as a political party should come and say that you think it is completely wrong with children and our asylum centres. And then, moreover, some parties with which there is a complete political disagreement are asked to draw up a plan rather than how it can be improved. Actually, I don't think that's serious. And yes, in the Liberal Alliance, we are at the target of the conditions offered to the rejected asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170924	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523170944	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for putting forward this motion for a resolution which we support. And we do, of course, because we think it is incredibly relevant to discuss the best interests of these children. This is not the first time we have heard of these children being miserable, and I think that one of the difficult things in this matter is that we may equally disagree on how refugee policy, integration policy and the asylum system should be, just as difficult I find it difficult to understand that we can disagree on how we treat these children. And I think that when there is such massive criticism, you have to take it seriously. I think it is interesting that there was also the criticism during Fogh's reign, when the policy was actually changed and said that they must live in the community, possibly in a local asylum centre or in their own homes, in order to give these children as ordinary a family life as possible. We must, of course, as a proper society. And there you can see how much we unfortunately, I think, have moved us since. For now it is quite legitimate to say: No, it is the parents who abuse their children, because the parents can just go home. That's why these families need to be freed. They can't even cook for themselves. We know that the reality is that many of them will be sitting there for many years, and we can all agree that they should not. When the parents are rejected, they should go home, but the fact is that they do not, and in very many cases we cannot send them out, and then we have a problem about these children. After all, some of these children end up in a humanitarian situation because they've been here longer than seven years. We know that too, and at that time these children are so traumatized that we risk that they will be a huge burden on Danish society. And that's why I find it hard to understand that we can't agree that we have to treat these kids really, really well. And then the whole argument goes on to say that we will become a new attraction, and there will be more and more refugees. First of all, I do not think so, because our other conditions for refugees have been tightened as much as they can at all, or that is probably too much said, but they are at least tightened really, very much. I also heard a comment now from the back row, where DF sits, so there are probably more good ideas. But because they're so tight, I think we're going to be a giant magnet, even if we choose to treat these kids better than we do today. And that is what the SF's proposals propose, and I do not think it can be blamed on the SF that they do not come up with concrete proposals. Actually, I think they do that on the first page. That is how I read it at least; that you should not be able to move families from one asylum centre to another; that you should give them the possibility of self-households and access to external internship, work and primary school. I think there are three reasonably concrete proposals there, so I do not actually understand that the Liberal Alliance just fell over the SF for that. One can say a great deal, but I find it worrying that we do not take a report from Danish Refugee Aid seriously, and I think it is worrying that we risk having some children who end up living for the rest of their lives in Denmark and who are traumatized. It is both to the detriment of those children, but it is also at risk of harming our society, because we risk these children becoming part of something we do not want them to become part of, because they have been told throughout their lives that they do not belong. We risk that if they come home to their original country, they will bring some feelings about what it was like to live in Denmark, where they were outside society. They didn't feel welcome. So on all heads and edges we run the risk when we don't treat these children really, really well that they are somehow going to do damage to Danish society. Those were supposed to be my words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523171431	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523171438	I regret to the Presidency that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen unfortunately had to leave because of some private matters, so I am giving the speech in her absence. The proposal here requires the government to draw up a plan for improving the well-being of children throughout the Danish asylum system. It is, of course, a little difficult to oppose a plan, but vice versa, we would like to praise SF for raising this debate, because we have seen too many cases where children live in unacceptable conditions at asylum centres. And now I would like to quote a social coordinator at an asylum centre quoted by the Red Cross: in principle we could inform them all, because the conditions in the asylum centres are so difficult that much later action is taken against warning signs than among their Danish contemporaries. We are dealing with children who have been on the run from their homeland and lost friends and everything they knew, and perhaps also family members. Now they are at an asylum centre marked by distrust and uncertainty. We in the Radical Left do not think that we can be familiar with this. It is not sustainable when children are unfortunately to be expected to be many years in Denmark and perhaps also many years at an asylum centre. That is why we think it is a good idea for the SF to have raised this debate and we can support the motion for a resolution. We in the Radical Left would like to contribute to a plan to improve the well-being, learning and security of children at asylum centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523171619	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523171632	The SF has tabled a motion for a resolution calling for greater attention to be paid to children who are accommodated in the country's asylum centres. The proposers refer to the relocations that an asylum family necessarily has to undergo in their asylum process, and it is suggested that the Danish authorities do not take into account the families and, in particular, the best interests of the children when making administrative decisions. I think that is an assertion that is not well documented. You don't move people around to bother them. Our asylum system has been set up in such a way that you live in different asylum centres, depending on where you are in the asylum process. That is why we have reception centres, accommodation centres and exit centres. It is therefore an integral part of our asylum system that families are also moved, and this is a prerequisite for a functioning system. It is the same structure as the previous government, the S-SF-R government, set out. There have been some closures of asylum centres in recent years, and that is a good thing, because we have reduced the number of spontaneous asylum seekers. But it has also meant that there have necessarily been more relocations than what would normally be. As a starting point, an asylum family receiving asylum must move only once, from reception centre to living centre. All relocations are, of course, based on an individual assessment which takes into account the best interests of the child and the closeness of the family and the educators and institutions to which they have been accustomed. SF also refers to another aspect, namely access to primary school. It is also the case today that all children in the Danish asylum system have the opportunity to receive education in a primary school. In practice, it is also by far the majority who receive primary education, while a small proportion receive educational services through, for example, the Red Cross. This is particularly true in those exit centres where families oppose departure. The SF's most concrete proposal is that we introduce a ceiling on the number of relocations that must be passed through in the system. It is therefore proposed that we should introduce a limit that involves everything, too rigid a framework for the work of the authorities. I can just imagine that a family wants to be moved if they do not thrive, but then they do not have the opportunity, because we have introduced some bureaucratic rule in a misguided attempt to take account of children. I do not believe that the proposal has very specific content and I do not agree with the premise that the Danish authorities do not take account of the children in the Danish asylum system. So a lot has happened since the '00s. That is why we do not support the SF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523171945	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523172004	Thank you for the debate, which I think had the positive content, that most people agreed that it is important, in a sense, to have a debate. There were also differences of opinion as to how it works today, and that was, of course, the essence of the Minister's speech, but also of the speeches made by the rapporteurs of the other governing parties, namely that it works well as it does, and therefore there is no need to take any initiatives here. It was such a good bureaucrat argument to come along and start from what the system thinks and what the system is like. I think that, and this is what we are trying to do here, we should turn it around a little and say that instead of starting from the bureaucratic structures that exist and how different management units handle it, we should start from how the children thrive in this, that is to say, taking the children's side in it. And that is what is also the essence of the reports made by the Danish Refugee Aid, but the Red Cross has also made statements about it; a number of experts have made statements about it, and there is agreement among the experts that there are problems with the well-being of the children in the Danish asylum system. It cannot help simply dismissing it in explaining how bureaucracy works and therefore there is nothing to come for. That is why I think it is a very arrogance in relation to the problems identified by the experts and in the reports which form the basis of this proposal when the premise for it is completely rejected. It's extremely arrogant. Nor do I think it is an expression of what I would call any form of empathy in relation to this problem, where, at least sometimes, in this Chamber, one might have an empathetic starting point, if I may say so, in relation to the fact that there are some people who feel bad in our society. It can be in different ways, different places, for different reasons, but in this case it can be shown that children in asylum centres are not feeling well. In this context, I think that Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative made some very wise observations when she said that yes, we may disagree on refugee policy, we may disagree on immigration policy, we may disagree on how it should be knitted together, but we should actually agree that the children who are here in Denmark and for whom we are responsible, and for whom we know in many cases are in the asylum centres, in the asylum system, including Zealand, we have a responsibility to be treated properly. I think we should be able to agree on this in a society like the Danish one, where, after all, we have a tradition of taking care of the weakest as well. I am completely incomprehensible that this is apparently not possible, and I fully agree with those who have said that this could have major consequences in the future too. Because even if you keep saying that they just have to go out, it's not safe for them to do it. There are many different reasons for this, but it is not certain that it will happen. And the meaning of e.g. The soul field was, of course, that they should be there in a very, very short time before they actually went out. It has evolved quite differently; they are often there for a very long time under these conditions. And frankly, as I have said in a number of brief remarks, these are not the big things we are talking about here. It's a ceiling on how many times you can move kids. This will cause difficulties in relation to bureaucracy, according to Mr. Naser Khader. Perhaps we should look at whether it is not more difficult for children that they are being moved all the time and that this is actually a problem. They've come to somewhere, got new comrades, and suddenly they have to get away from that place. It gives a rootlessness that comes on top of what they have already experienced. And this is also what the report from Danish Refugee Aid points out, so that these specific problems around Soulsmark lie in the continuation of a long, long process in which they have been through processes that have been very difficult for them. I think we should be able to discuss this without the arrogance that has been involved in this debate. It could, for example, be done. also concern that they may be allowed to cook their own food. Isn't it a natural requirement for you as a family to be allowed to cook your own food? If you'd rather eat with others at a cafeteria, it's okay, but isn't it natural that you have the opportunity to cook your own food? They don't have the chance to do that today. Is it not a very modest requirement to make if you live for many months at a centre? I think so. As I have said sometimes, can it not be too small? Can we not perhaps be a little better at having a little, if I may say so, empathetic approach to how these children thrive, rather than rejecting it, because it then does not live up to what is called the tight immigration policy? Can't we just loosen it a little bit in a little bit? I think this proposal should be supported, but otherwise I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523172720	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523172735	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 24 May 2018. I shall begin by giving the floor to the rapporteur on the questions put to us, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523172801	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party has raised the question debate because we want a discussion of the possibilities that exist to tighten up further in relation to the influx that we have seen to Denmark. Although it has been limited, some still go away to Denmark and to Europe. Many tightenings have been carried out, and this has also had a positive effect. We are, of course, very satisfied with this in the Danish People's Party, but we also think that we should move on. We think we should be careful not to stop. We have an obligation to constantly discuss how we can move forward, and specifically in this debate we would like to discuss from the Danish People's Party how we can reject the migrants' boats in the Mediterranean. So that is part of the reason for the question debate, and that is the reason for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523172854	Thank you. Then we need an answer and it provides the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523172904	I have been asked to give a status on the migrant situation in the Mediterranean and also on the possibilities of rejecting migrant boats and sending them back to Africa. I think it is a very good question to get here on a very important subject. On the first part of the question, that is to say the situation in the Mediterranean, I can say that this is a subject which, of course, I am following very closely. The current situation is that, compared with the situation a year ago, there has been a decrease in the number of migrants arriving via the Mediterranean to the European Union. According to Frontex, in the period from 1 January to 1 April this year, approx. 19,500 migrants. This corresponds to a decrease in the number of approx. 50%, i.e. in the same period last year, in 2017, approx. 39,000 people. This is, of course, a positive development which confirms to me that the initiatives taken by Denmark and also the other European countries actually have an effect. But the figure remains high and the figure remains too high. We know that the routes are constantly changing and that they are moving, depending on what control there is and also on how good the EU countries are to register the refugees and migrants coming to Europe. It is therefore not surprising that entry to Europe via the western and eastern migration routes, that is. from Morocco to Spain and from Turkey to Greece, has increased significantly as the number from the central route has fallen. Let me explain a little more in depth about the current situation on the various migration routes to Europe. On the central Mediterranean route, the Italian authorities have per year. May 11th this year just registered almost 1,000 arrivals in Italy. It's a drop of approx. 84% compared to the same period last year. Most of the people arriving in Italy are from Tunisia or Eritrea, and they make up approx. 40% of the arrived. Approx. 70% of those who have arrived in Italy have sailed from Libya. If we then move a little westward towards Spain, then the development looks somewhat different. On the western Mediterranean route, the Spanish authorities have per year. 6 May total registered approx. 7,250 migrants, which is an increase of approx. Twenty-nine per cent. The figures also show that Moroccans and Algerians continue to constitute the primary nationalities on the route. Frontex's assessment is that this increase, among other things. is caused by instability in the countries of origin and transit, and that also means unrest in Morocco. If we look east, in 2018, there has also been an increase in the number of arrivals to Europe via the Eastern Mediterranean route. Until 6 May this year, approx. 16,000 migrants to Greece, and this is an increase of approx. 164 per cent. compared to the same period last year. According to Frontex, the large increase is due to increased activity among Syrian and Iraqi migrants. Persons from Syria remain the primary group on the route and constitute approx. 44 per cent of the total arrivals here in 2018. In week 16, and in the days from 16 to 22 April, Greece experienced the highest weekly arrival rate since the EU-Turkey Declaration of March 2016. In total, in week 16, 1,870 migrants came to Greece from Turkey, 70 per cent of them. above the country border. And by week 17 and by week 18, the figure was actually correspondingly high. The figures speak a clear language: the pressure on the EU's external borders remains high and the routes are constantly changing and they are moving. The figures confirm my need for a continued focus on strengthening control of the EU's external borders. The figures also confirm me that there is a need for common solutions focusing on limiting the number of illegal immigrants to the European Union in combination with a strict and consistent and realistic immigration policy at national level. We need to find solutions at European level that help to destroy the business model of traffickers and ease the pressure on the EU's external borders. This should be done by creating a more stable situation along the migrant routes, which can ensure that people in need of international protection can achieve it in the neighbourhoods. We therefore need to continue to develop our cooperation with the main third countries, including through the full implementation of the EU-Turkey Agreement and further support for, among others. Libya. We need to find solutions where we effectively remove the foundations of the cynical business model of traffickers and, at the same time, ease the pressure on the EU's external borders. In relation to the second part of the theme of the question debate, i.e. the possibilities of rejecting migrant boats, I can of course understand that it can seem like a both easy and also enticing solution just to turn the boats around and send them back to the North African coast, but it just isn't that easy. It is important to bear in mind that although the vast majority of those on board the boats are economic migrants who have left their country of origin alone in the hope of having a better life somewhere else, there may be some who have a real need for protection. And, of course, we have an obligation to provide protection for real refugees. If the migrants' boats are simply turned back and passengers are put ashore, there is not necessarily a guarantee that the recipient country will not send them back to their home countries, and that would be contrary to the Non-refoulement. Let me also say a few words about the actions and role of NGOs in the Mediterranean. The NGOs' activities in the central Mediterranean reached a level that we had not seen before in the early summer of 2017. More and more NGOs came to the area and they also carried out their activities closer and closer to Libyan waters. Indeed, some of the NGOs were operating in Libyan waters that close to the coast. The situation was getting out and under control, and that is also why I have talked about an unholy alliance between humanitarian organisations' rescue ships off the Libyan coast and the traffickers who send people across the Mediterranean. To conclude, I must say that the challenges facing Europe remain great and that neither in Denmark nor in the European Union can we stand idly by. Effective control of the EU's external borders is a prerequisite for maintaining a Europe characterised by freedom, justice and legal certainty. Most important to me is therefore that we send out a clear signal to the outside world that it is not appropriate for economic migrants to try to cross the Mediterranean and then use the asylum system or, for that matter, to reside illegally here in Europe. And then I will leave the floor to the debate here and come back later.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523173815	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We move on to the debate, and the first one on the floor is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523173824	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for your reply. In the Danish People's Party, we have raised the question debate because we want to discuss the possibilities that exist for further tightening of asylum and immigration policy, both nationally and internationally. As I said in the explanatory statement, many restrictions have been made, and this has also had a positive effect, because fewer people, among others, are coming in. Denmark. However, in the view of the Danish People's Party, we need to move forward, which is why we would like to discuss how this can happen and how we can specifically reject the migrants' boats in the Mediterranean. Then we have also raised the debate because the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration since the 2015 parliamentary elections has been on a number of study trips where we have learned more about how other countries organise their policies in the field of asylum and aliens. We have among other things. visited Australia on a study trip which I myself thought was very inspiring to study their asylum policy. It is a policy that literally turns the boats around, and we must do so in Europe as well. The Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration has also visited Greece, Italy, Spain and Morocco to study how to deal with migratory and refugee flows. So it can be said that we have traveled so well, at least in my opinion, but then something has come out of it. For now the members of the committee and some of the people present in this Chamber have also been involved in some of the study trips that it is actually possible to turn the boats around. We know positively that we can do much more to save Europe and Denmark. If Australia can, then Europe can; then Italy can, and Spain can. I've seen how the systems work in Australia myself. I have seen how the systems operate in Italy and Spain. When you ask whether it is technically and practically possible to implement the Australian model in the Mediterranean, then the answer is that it is possible to do so. The Italian Coast Guard can, and the Spanish Coast Guard can. It can be done to turn the boats around. It can be done to save and pick up migrants out at sea, sail them back to the African continent and drop them off on the beach or wherever it may be. This is a real opportunity. What it requires, and what remains, are the necessary political decisions. And, of course, if you make the necessary political decisions, you have to ask the question: who will stand for it in practice? This is, of course, a relevant issue which needs to be dealt with. If Denmark goes into it at some point, and we in the Danish People's Party believe that Denmark should do so, then we should discuss whether to contact, for example, the Danish People's Party. the Spanish Government or, for that matter, the Greek or Italian Government, with a call for them to adopt the model at national level and, on their own, a model which Denmark subsequently officially saw, externally, will support and then, in agreement with the Spanish authorities, the Italian authorities or whoever it may be, we will be able to provide surveillance aircraft, ships and crews to ensure that the boats are turned around in a sensible and responsible manner. That's one option. Another possibility is to work to ensure that it becomes a NATO action in which, through our ongoing contribution to NATO, we help to turn the boats around. A third possibility is that it will be a UN task in which Denmark will be able to contribute in a similar way to turning the boats around. It may also be a Frontex task, although it is not preferable for the Danish People's Party. But there are several options. We are lacking in goose-eyes only that the necessary political decisions are made. We need a majority to stand up and do what is right for Denmark, for Europe, for our peoples and for our descendants. Of course, we do not want to leave anyone to drown to die in the Mediterranean. We'll save them, and then we'll sail them back. In Australia, the recorded number of drowned people who have died on their way to Australia has fallen after a decision has been made to turn the boats around simply because fewer people are trying to get to Australia by boat. So it works; I think it is beyond doubt. We owe it to our descendants to do more than we do today. We owe it to Denmark to do more. As Danish elected representatives here in the Danish Parliament, we owe it to the Danish people to handle the challenges responsibly and with due care. We must do this because we are committed to our history and to our country, and that is why we must constantly explore new opportunities when it comes to saving what can be saved. And Denmark can be saved. Europe can be saved. I believe we believe that in the Danish People's Party. But of course time is running out, and that is why we must do more, and we must do it soon. In the Danish People's Party we hope that at some point the other parties will understand why it is crucial for future generations of Danes and Europeans that we protect our national borders as well as Europe's external borders. I shall make the following (on behalf of the DF): Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Europe's external borders and the uncontrolled immigration over the Mediterranean are not under control. Against this background, the Folketing calls on the government to work for a model that involves sending spontaneous asylum seekers coming to the Danish border to a reception centre outside Europe. The Government should invite the parties of the Folketing to hold discussions on this matter as soon as possible. The Danish Parliament notes that it is technically possible to draw up a model for the return of migrant boats and to return them immediately to the African continent. Following this, the Danish Parliament invites the government to explore the possibilities for Denmark to contribute to the development of the model outlined. • V 55).
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174433	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174436	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen says you have to turn the boats around, and Mr. Martin Henriksen says that of course you shouldn't let anyone drown. Now I know that sir... Martin Henriksen, like myself, had the pleasure of visiting the Greek island of Samos, and there we heard from Frontex's staff, whom we from the delegation directly questioned, what the consequence would be if we turned the boat over and pushed it back, that the answer was: then the Turkish authorities will push the boat back the other way. Then the boat will be in international waters until these bad rubber boats disintegrate, and thus those who are there will drown. Is that what the Danish People's Party is proposing to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174530	No, it's not. But we have seen before that there have been some conflicts where refugees, migrants have sailed back and forth between different countries, and then we have to try to find a solution to that. Our specific proposal for adoption is, of course, about the African continent, but we also believe that it should be done in relation to Turkey. We simply have to do so, because if we do not do so, then we will see that there are more who embark on this perilous journey. We will see, as we see on a regular basis, that there are people dying in the Mediterranean, and we will also see, as the Minister also mentioned, that there are NGOs who are irresponsibly sailing very close, trying to sail people up and, in this way, also calling on people to take the chance. So the current system really supports traffickers. That really supports some criminal activities, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has also been told this, where there are some incredibly shady criminal businessmen who make a lot of money playing gambling with people's lives. And as long as we do not do what the Danish People's Party is proposing, we really support the system that is there now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174640	I must honestly say that I am astonished by the attempt to mislead the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to try to do here, when what we hear from the crew members on Samos is that you push the boats back, then the Turkish authorities push them the other way, and then people drown. The Danish People's Party has to deal with that. Does the Danish People's Party want people to drown? It will be either if the Turkish authorities push them back or some random Libyan militia pushes them back or, for that matter, sell them as slaves, which are of course widespread in Libya. In other words, we should not stand by and claim that we have a humanitarian solution when the reality that we have heard from the committee is that people will drown.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174731	In other words, our proposal for adoption is specifically about the African continent. But again: I just have to say that the terrible things that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen describes, of course, something that is happening with the current system of the current system! That is the system we have today. This is the alternative to what the Danish People's Party supports. It is true that it may well be that there is a third way that the Enhedslisten wants, namely to ensure that people are received in different centres, or where it can be, around, and then transport them to Denmark or to Europe, but then Denmark will be destroyed, then Europe will be destroyed, and we should not do so. We know that these models work because the committee has also seen this in Australia.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174823	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. Then we move on to the general rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523174842	Thank you for that, President. It is no understatement to say that the migrant situation in the Mediterranean is one of the great humanitarian disasters of our time. Over the last three years, more than 10,000 people have drowned in the Mediterranean. On the Central Mediterranean Route alone, 2,853 people died in 2017 alone. However, there are bright points at this time. In the first quarter of 2018, we have seen fewer arrivals and almost 50 percent. fewer dead migrants on the central smuggling routes in the Mediterranean. This is due not least to the active efforts of the European Union, Germany and Italy to strengthen the control of external borders. But a realistic assessment is that the pressure on the Mediterranean routes will only grow and that it will even grow a lot. Over the next 30 years, the population of Africa will double. Even now we can see that in the vast majority of countries in Africa, the average age of a population with the vast majority of young people is less than 20 years old. In Nigeria, surveys show that almost half of the adult population wants to migrate if they were given the opportunity to do so. We are facing a future structural challenge of giant dimensions. On top of that, we have a dysfunctional European asylum system in which we grant to those who set foot on European soil a number of rights and economic privileges in which most of the world's refugees are not near to being given a share and in which we are not effectively able to return the far too many illegal economic migrants who, for completely understandable reasons, want to live their lives in Europe from their perspective. The NGOs are trying to save lives in the Mediterranean, but they are inadvertently becoming pieces of the human smugglers' business model. This is a diabolical dilemma, but we need to find structural solutions to structural problems and not just blame NGOs. We propose from the Social Democrats to create a new and fairer asylum system which does not lift the few who set foot on European soil to a high level and abandon the rest, but where asylum is granted in Denmark through the United Nations quota refugee system and not as a spontaneous asylum seeker. We propose that the international community should join forces for an historic boost to Africa, which should genuinely ensure better living conditions for the ever-growing and younger population. The conditions in the poorest part of the world must basically be improved if people are not to understandably seek a better life elsewhere. All these things are structural solutions to a very large structural problem. I have a proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party, which reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Europe's external borders are still under control and that the vast majority of people who are trying to cross the Mediterranean on their way to Europe are not entitled to international protection. Cynian smugglers earn billions of dollars to let people risk their lives on the Mediterranean Sea. At the same time, we are abandoning the weakest refugees in the neighbourhood. Against this background, the Folketing calls on the government to work for a model whereby spontaneous asylum seekers coming to the Danish border are sent to a reception centre outside Europe. Instead, Denmark must accept a number of quota refugees through the United Nations every year. The Government should invite the parties of the Folketing to hold discussions on this matter as soon as possible. Finally, the Danish Parliament notes the need for the international community to join forces for a historic boost to Africa. The conditions in the poorest parts of the world must basically be improved if people are not to understandably seek a better life elsewhere. V 56).
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175225	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175229	Thank you. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said, and I think it is a correct quote: a realistic assessment is that the number will just increase. And I think that's a real assessment. But the question is: why not do something now? Why, then, should we not do what we can from Denmark, and perhaps we can do it in cooperation with Spain or Italy, start something now and start persuading the other countries to do more, for example. Turn the boats around? Because that is something that we can manage more ourselves. If that is what we have to wait for an agreement to be reached with one or more African countries, it may well be that it is dragging the process off. Now, after all, if you can say so, we must persuade some who are a little closer to our culture circle and perhaps have a better understanding of what we are trying to defend here at home. So if it is that you have the assessment from the Social Democratic Party that we share from the Danish People's Party that it is realistic that the number will just increase and increase, is it not important that we act quickly and that we do not necessarily wait, we can do that too, and let it depend on whether we can conclude agreements that other countries will house a reception centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175334	Thank you for the question. I think there are several things to say about that. First of all, we are doing something now, and we are doing quite a lot. One of the things we have done, and which has proved to be even very, very effective, has been that, with all the dilemmas and problems involved, but nevertheless it has been effective, we have made an agreement with Turkey, an agreement which the rapporteur's party has not supported on the occasions that we have discussed it. But this has actually helped to slow down the flow over the Aegean Sea very, very much. The second thing to say is that we share the problem analysis in relation to people going to keep coming, and it would be very easy if we could just signal or bump into the boats and then they would be pushed back to where they came from. But there has to be a place where you send these people. After all, I think that some of the centres that have been seen in Nigeria, where, fortunately, after far too long, it has finally succeeded in pushing African leaders to take back some of the rejected asylum seekers, some of those who never brought the smugglers over, show that we also have a responsibility there. That is why we are pointing out that if you are going to solve this structuralally, you have to have some places where you send people who have been rejected until they either go home where they come from or clarify whether they can be granted asylum via the UN quota system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175502	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175504	I would now like to say that the EU-Turkey agreement has, for a large part, simply shifted the challenges elsewhere. I think that was also confirmed in some of the figures examined by the Minister when the Minister replied. So says Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, that we need a place to send them. Yes, if you turn the boats and push them back, you send them back on the beach from which they have come out, or you push them back into Libyan waters, and then they are there. Then it will always be a concrete assessment whether the boat can manage to come all the way back, whether they have to go all the way back, or whether it is enough to push them into Libyan waters. After all, it is also an assessment made by the Australian side. There you do, too, that sometimes, if you estimate that the boat can't make the trip back, you get a new boat and transfer the migrants to that boat, and then you push that boat back. In this case, it would then be Libyan waters as an example or Moroccan for that matter. So it can be done, and it can be done in a sound way, while at the same time ensuring that one minimizes you can never be 100 percent sure of the extent of people who will perish in the Mediterranean. Why will the Social Democrats not be involved in this solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175614	We are not opposed to examining what is of one option or another to resolve this. The point is that we see a wide range of technical, but also legal, challenges in it. Of course, you can uncover this in every possible way, but we also see this as a major structural problem which will remain there for many years to come, and we believe that structural solutions need to be found other than turning the boats and sending them back to where they come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175648	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175650	Thank you. I understand that what Social Democrats think is the solution is that asylum seekers coming to Denmark or Europe should be sent to camps outside Europe. There has then been a public debate about where these camps should lie. We have not been able to get answers to that yet from the Social Democratic Party. But I think it is appropriate that, if you think this is a realistic solution, you can indicate where such camps should lie. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: where does the Social Democrats think these camps outside Europe should actually lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175734	I understand, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen refers to the survey made by Danmarks Radio to a number of embassies which one might think is half-responsible at all, but that is what it is. However, if someone had called the Turkish Embassy in Copenhagen in 2013 and asked them if they thought that within 2-3 years they had reached a very, very large agreement with the European Union to stop the influx of the many refugees coming to Europe via Turkey from getting a large amount of money, with the cost of both their state finances and stability, that there are 3 million refugees in Turkey, I do not think the Turkish ambassador had said yes. There I think the Turkish ambassador had answered all sorts of other things. Most of all, the Turkish ambassador had not, like all sorts of other ambassadors, had either, if they could finally see a potential in it revealed and thereby diminished their negotiating position.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175840	Thank you. I think this is a relevant question, because if you did, and that is what the Social Democrats did with this great-launched proposal, and point out that it would be the solution, that is to say camps outside Europe, I do not think it is too much to ask that you can indicate where it is realistic they could be. Where exactly does the Social Democratic Party propose to open such negotiations? What kind of specific negotiations do some countries have to start with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523175916	Well, social democracy is not in government for now. I am not a minister for the region, nor a development minister, so I can pick up the phone and call and start negotiating, but I can have some ideas about it. You could, for example. Do like France. It is a different model, but nevertheless France has a similar reception centre in Niger. I'm sure you could talk to Egypt. There are a number of countries you could talk to about these different models. Nor do I say that our model is necessarily the one that will become something. However, I am calling for answers from the Enhedslisten on how to address these very major and structural challenges, where it is that our asylum system has basically collapsed because there is such a strong link between people who actually have the right to asylum and the right to protection, and people who do not have the right to asylum and the right to protection, but are irregular migrants. This whole link is helping to undermine protection and help to those who need help around, both because we are spending our energies and our money on addressing needs where it is more expensive, but also because the support for having an effective asylum and refugee system erodes. I have not yet heard in the debate any response to these structural challenges on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180039	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180040	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the Social Democrats are not opposed to looking at and examining other options, such as the introduction of the Australian model, but that there are some structural solutions that must also be sought out. Then we have to ask: if we now agreed to our proposal and looked at the possibilities of introducing that model, then that does not rule out the possibility of looking at other options at the same time, is that not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180110	The model we have identified in our refugee initiative is, of course, trying to take care of the many different concerns that exist. We do not believe that we can simply turn the boats around and not at the same time assume responsibility for the refugees who are now around. We do not believe that this solves this problem either, because people will continue to try. It is both irregular migrants and refugees who may have a real need for protection. That is why we believe that they can be sent to reception centres where their asylum needs can be clarified. We can either tell them that there is no chance of asylum in Europe, and that is why they have to return to Nigeria, Togo, Gabon, or where many people are coming from in these months, or they have to queue up in a UN quota system. That is the overall solution we are pointing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180213	The rapporteur says that you cannot just turn the boats around and that people will still keep trying. That is not quite right, because we can see that people where you have the Australian model just stop trying. That's where you just turn the boats around. Then it may be that it will be a new boat that will be turned around. But that's kind of what's happening. So that's a possible solution. It may well be that one disagrees with that solution, but it is worth exploring the possibilities of introducing that model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180245	As I said, we want to be involved in discussing everything and the various proposals from all parties. The most important thing for us is that it should be solutions that are based on the whole and on the long-term structural challenges, so that both the roots of the problems are addressed, but of course also ensure that human lives are saved. What Australia also does, as I think the Danish People's Party forgets to mention, is that it has multiplied the reception of, among other things. The United Nations quota refugees, while turning the boats around and having these highly criticized camps, etc. I think that is part of the overall story, if that is the model that the Danish People's Party is working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180331	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen and welcome Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180339	Thank you, sir. President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for focusing on an unfortunately still current situation, namely the migrant situation in the Mediterranean. It is important to keep an eye on the situation as we all know the consequences of increased migration. As you know, the question is: what can the Minister say about the migrant situation in the Mediterranean Sea and the possibility of rejecting migratory boats and sending them back to Africa? The Minister has already given a very full account of the situation, but I would like to make a few additional observations. There is no doubt that migratory flows from Africa remain a challenge. Fortunately, the number that has crossed the Mediterranean has fallen compared with last year, as the Minister also reported, and there are a number of reasons for this. One of those who is quite interesting in relation to the Danish People's Party's proposal to reverse boats is that the Libyan and the Italian coastguards, particularly the Libyan with the support of the Italian coast, actually turn some of the boats that sail out, especially off the Libyan coast, so that they can sail back again, but they can only do so in Libyan waters. In addition, the Italians, not least because of the criticism that has come from different quarters, have also taken action against the NGOs that sailed all the way down to the Libyan coast, from myself and others in the Danish Parliament, and became a sort of pull factor, so that it became even more attractive for migrants to sail out. Then there has been an effort down through Africa to slow down the flow of migrants, so that it becomes less attractive to start the journey towards, for example. Libya, and unfortunately you hear reports that sometimes more people die on their journey through Africa than they actually do at sea. That effort has also helped. However, this does not mean that we are in any way in the end, nor does it make the fundamental problem of migration disappear. That is why we need to find European solutions that ease the pressure on the external borders, which slow down migration through Africa, which makes it less attractive to go to Libya at all and which destroys the business model of traffickers. We believe, among other things, that this should be done by strengthening international cooperation with third countries in the region. I can then say that the Danish People's Party believes that it is possible to reject migrant boats and thus solve a large part of the migration challenge. The questioners want the government to work on a model whereby the Mediterranean migrants' boats are turned around. And that's an interesting thought. I myself was with the rapporteur for the questioners in Australia and saw how it had been done with great success there, but there I must just remind you that the situation in the Mediterranean is not one hundred percent comparable to that in Australia, and I would say that I find it difficult to see how Denmark as a smaller country in northern Europe should go on its own and operate in the Mediterranean. In addition, there are a number of legal issues, in relation to what are Libyan waters, what are international waters, what can be done, what are some international rules that are dealt with there and that we must, of course, respect. However, I can at least note that from what I read in the media, the Libyan Coast Guard has been really, really good at actually turning some of the boats that don't get that far out, thus making it less attractive to travel out. But it is the Libyan coastguard, and I find it difficult to see Denmark sailing to Libyan waters to cooperate with the Libyan coastguard. That is not to say that Denmark should do nothing. Denmark is, in fact, one of the countries leading the way. We have seen this with the efforts in Afghanistan, both militaryly and also with reconstruction; we can see it with our efforts right now in Iraq, both militaryly with training and with reconstruction; we can also see it with our efforts in Syria • I can make a very, very long list. And when you have to look at what Denmark has to do internationally, you have to look at what our best tools are, where we can best help and what our competences are, and I do not think, as the situation is right now, that it is, for example. to send naval vessels to the Mediterranean alone. In summing up, I can say that the migrant situation remains a major challenge, and one that we must, of course, keep an eye on from Denmark, and we must look at how we can contribute. I can say that it is not a simple matter that can be resolved anywhere other than in the international context. Securing the EU's external borders is a common challenge. In the light of this, on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there is still great pressure on the EU's external borders and that the vast majority of those who are trying to cross the Mediterranean on their way to Europe are not entitled to international protection. Parliament also notes that effective control of external borders is a prerequisite for maintaining confidence in the European Union. Against this background, Parliament calls on the government to help find solutions at European level that help to destroy the business model of traffickers, ease pressure on the EU's external borders, ensure that migrants and refugees remain in the vicinity, as well as a joint coordinated effort to ensure effective deployment of rejected asylum seekers and migrants. V 57).
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180918	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523180921	Thank you. I would like to add a few comments to what Mr. Marcus Knuth mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. First of all, Denmark must, of course, enter into cooperation with other countries or as part of NATO action if it is that we have to turn the boats around. I don't imagine that Mr. Marcus Knuth or the undersigned sails down there and then starts doing it on their own, but it can be said that when the NGOs can pick people up on their own, it may also be that we can sail down there and then turn them over on our own, but maybe we can take that another time. Then Mr. Marcus Knuth, that other conditions apply in Australia. I would just like to say that we must, of course, ensure that it is adapted to the situation now prevailing in the Mediterranean if it is to be introduced here. And then I'll say in relation to that, sir. Marcus Knuth also mentioned whether the Libyan coastguard who turns the boats: that's right, that's good. And when sir... Marcus Knuth highlights it as something positive, wouldn't it be even better if there were more who did it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181015	I have praised the efforts of the Italian and Libyan coastguards, because I believe that it is one of the many different tools that has contributed to the fact that not so many people are coming out, and thus also to the fact that not so many are drowning. However, on the question: yes, it would be good if we could extend that effort, provided, of course, that it is done in a sound manner, but I would remind you that we are a small country in northern Europe which has competences that I believe we can use better; now I mentioned our efforts in Iraq, our efforts in Afghanistan, and our efforts in Syria. So, there are some things that Denmark is really, really well equipped for internationally, and I just don't think that one of the things that is our main competence is to operate in the Mediterranean and pick up refugee boats and turn them back up again. I think there are others who are better at that than us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181109-2	But I don't think that sir... Marcus Knuth answered my question. If it is that it is positive from the point of view of the Left that the Libyan Coast Guard is turning boats around, that is to say that it has a positive effect, would it not be better if there were more who did it? Wouldn't it be better if you did it from the Italian side, from the Spanish side? Wouldn't it be better, seen with the eyes of the Left and Mr. Marcus Knuth's eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181135	As long as it's done in a proper way, yes, of course. That is also why I commend, for example. the Italian coastguard, who has incredibly many years of experience in working in the Mediterranean and also in cooperating with the Libyan coastguard. And that is precisely why I say that I think they are better equipped for that part of the task than Denmark is. However, we are happy to contribute to international cooperation, and we are doing so in other parts of the whole work to secure the EU's external borders. However, just when it comes to close cooperation with the Libyan coastguard, I think that other countries, and especially Mediterranean countries, are better equipped for that task than Denmark is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181212	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181216	Sir. Marcus Knuth says that the situation in Australia is not comparable to that in the Mediterranean, and that is true, but it should not rule out looking at the possibility of creating a similar model. Perhaps it should not be a direct copy, but one can perhaps look at the possibilities of how we can then do it in a similar way in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181244	The big difference is what we saw during our visit to Australia, where it was migrant boats that sailed directly with the aim of reaching the Australian coast, and then it was the Australian coastguard who himself, I presume, observed and turned boats, at least in international waters, which were heading towards their coast. After all, I am not aware of many boats heading towards the Danish coast, and then what I think is that the challenge we have in the Mediterranean is not best solved by sending naval vessels from Denmark all the way down to the Mediterranean. We are involved in a wide range of operations where we think we can best help. I mentioned before Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, and this is our primary competence, and it is not to repeat myself, but as I said to Mr. Martin Henriksen, I therefore believe that the Italian coastguard is better equipped to act in those waters than Danish boats are, as we lift our share of responsibility for helping in nearby areas elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181355	But if you can see that the Italian coastguard also succeeds in turning some boats, then you have to recognise that there is a way to turn boats around in the Mediterranean. And when you can see that the Italian Coast Guard has a way of doing that, you could sit down and have a talk about it. The rapporteur also says that we must strengthen controls at external borders. I guess you do that by turning the boats around and removing the pressure that comes from that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181421	Yes, and that's why I commend the Italian Coast Guard. That is also why I am, for example. praised Hungary for helping to secure their border, which is one of the EU's external borders, and the Danish authorities have offered assistance and have also had people sent to help the EU secure its external borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181439	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth, and welcome to Mr. Knuth. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523181447	Thank you. I have to say, I'm a little impressed by this debate. The Danish People's Party pretends to have a humanitarian proposal, and the reality is that what is actually proposed is what we who were with the committee at Samos have heard will mean that people will drown. If you imagine this happening in Libya, then you can risk that people fleeing Europe will end up being held as slaves. At the same time, you can hear from the Socialists that they have a solution. You don't really know how to implement it; you want some camps outside Europe, but you don't know where these camps are supposed to be. I have to say that there is a very low threshold for what one can afford to present to the Danish people as proposals that should have any root in reality, and I think that is worrying because there is a serious situation. The situation of refugees in the Mediterranean is totally unacceptable. Thousands of people have drowned in recent years on the run towards Europe, and instead of making a massive humanitarian and development policy effort in the neighbourhood and creating a solidarity mechanism for the distribution of refugees arriving in Europe, the European Union has reached an agreement with the Turkish President, Erdogan, and has made him a border guard for Europe. It has had severe consequences. Along the border with Syria, a fence has been built with EU support, a fence that I do not even think Trump could dream of, a fence with armed watchtowers and armored vehicles shooting at people trying to escape from the war and the repression of the bloody Syrian civil war. That is the reality. At the same time, repression within Turkey has increased. People-elected MPs and mayors are imprisoned, human rights activists and professionally active are put behind bars and all critical media are shut down. This is the case, while a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly, without any requirement to respect Turkey's obligations to the European Convention on Human Rights, has given Turkey only EUR 22 billion via the EU. kr. and now, at the latest, another round of 22 billion. kr., so that in recent years Turkish President Erdogan has received, yes, staggering 44 billion tax dollars from the EU, while according to the United Nations, his army has driven out about 500,000 civilian Kurds from cities in eastern Turkey, grossly suppressed the political opposition in Turkey and recently bombed the Kurdish Afrine area in Syria, then 137,000 people per year. April 24, 2018, according to the UN, is now on the run. When we visited Samos on the part of the committee, we heard that some of those who are being hunted on the run from the Afrin area of the Turkish army in Syria have already begun to arrive in Samos. In other words, EU policy does not create fewer refugees. The EU's policy is aimed at keeping refugees out of Europe. It is brutal and cynical, but it is also strikingly short-sighted. The European Union is in an extremely weak position. Erdogan can turn up and down the number of refugees that the Turkish authorities are allowing to take the dangerous journey to the Greek islands. That's what we're talking about. on our visit to Samos could hear a German crew member on a Frontex boat describe happening. The Turkish authorities have the opportunity to stop the points of departure, but they do not. Erdogan therefore uses cynical people fleeing Europe to blackmail the EU for money, and so far the majority of the Folketing has been stupid enough to let themselves be blackmailed without counterclaims. The European Union has even now copied this cynical model from Turkey and led it to support the Libyan militias who volunteer to hold back refugees from the Libyan coasts. So militias that are deeply involved in trafficking in human beings and the operation of slave trade with refugees and migrants in Libya are now receiving EU support. So much for the EU's talk about supporting human rights and democracy, so much for a policy that was supposed to be humane, but which is actually extremely cynical. What should be done? It should be done to put in place and to stand guard over the UN Refugee Convention, to remedy the acute humanitarian crisis for refugees and migrants in North Africa and the Sahara, to put massive economic and political pressure on Erdogan and other despots who are bombing Syria and repressing their own populations, and to ensure massive humanitarian aid and development for the neighbourhood and risk areas, so that we prevent and remedy war and that people are forced to flee. Against this background, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, Alternative and Radical Left, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the refugee situation is a challenge requiring cross-border solutions in both the EU, the UN and the countries that will. Too many lose their lives on the perilous flight to Europe across the Mediterranean. There is, of course, a need for compliance with the Refugee Convention at the EU's external borders. There is a need for solidarity in dealing with people on the run and in close cooperation with countries outside Europe that comply with minimum humanitarian standards. This requires a stronger focus on conflict resolution in war zones in particular in the Middle East, Central and West Africa, as well as capacity building and job creation in migrant-producing countries. The Danish Parliament calls on the government: Denmark to resume its obligations in the United Nations quota system. To work for international asylum in the neighbourhood with proper conditions, so that refugees are not forced onto dangerous routes. Humanitarian minimum standards as a condition for cooperation with beneficiary countries outside Europe. Solidary distribution of the mission of refugee reception in the EU. To strengthen development aid so that fewer people flee to survive. V 58).
ParlaMint-DK_20180523182136	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So I would like to welcome Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523182146	The European asylum system is fragile in many ways. There are a large number of people who are ready to take some extreme risks of coming to Europe, and the external border has not been geared to that pressure at all. Things have improved a little and the number of migrants has been reduced, but we remain dependent on a rather unstable Turkey and an inadequate southern border control. A large proportion of the people who are trying to come to Europe do not have a contractual protection need, but they are economic migrants. This means that the great pressure we are looking at Europe's external borders will very much continue independently of the level of conflict in the Middle East and North Africa, and that is why we must find better and more permanent solutions at European level to this problem. We must be much better at preventing economic migration and at reducing the number of refugees. We in Denmark remain deeply dependent on strict foreign policy. Even with the low refugee numbers that we are currently seeing, it is still absolutely crucial that Denmark does not become an attractive refugee country. As far as I am concerned, the crux of the matter is that we ensure that the benefits to refugees do not exceed what can be obtained in other European countries. So for us in the Liberal Alliance, it is absolutely crucial that what we do specifically in Denmark is to ensure that we are not an attractive refugee country, by among other things. to keep the level of benefits down, and then, of course, we need to get better at showing those who are not supposed to be here. The Liberal Alliance supports the adoption text, which Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Left read earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523182332	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523182402	Thank you. I think that this debate, rather like the previous resolution on asylum children, shows that our limit on how we talk about and treat people who are on the run has moved. Fortunately, we all agree that the perilous journey that people take over the Mediterranean must be done to limit. But that we can imagine turning the boats around and that we are talking seriously here from the platform about using the Australian model, yes, that goes my limit. I do not think that is worthy of Denmark. After all, I am glad that we have cooperation in the European Union. I wish that our cooperation in the European Union could be strengthened and that we could agree on a distribution key so that the people who come to Europe will be distributed across Europe. I myself have been with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration in both Greece, Italy, Spain and Morocco and have seen the challenges of the countries that receive people at the external borders. After all, I believe that Denmark should resume its obligations with regard to the United Nations quota system as soon as possible, so that we can help the neighbouring regions in this way. I believe that it is about helping even more economically in the neighbourhood than we already do, so that we can stop it, that there are also people who go to Europe because of poverty. In addition, we must intervene and help the neighbourhoods to limit the wars and war zones that exist. It's also what makes people run. Then there is one thing that we have not even mentioned here from the platform, and it is the many, many millions of environmental refugees, climate refugees who already exist and who are only looking to be more and more. So the solution is not to turn the boats around. The solution is, of course, to help the neighbourhoods economically, but also to relieve them. The solution is to have a distribution system in Europe by means of the European Union and to expand and strengthen development aid as much as we possibly can. That, I think, should be my comments on this question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523182655	Thank you to Mrs. Josephine Fock, and welcome to Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523182703	We in the Radical Left, of course, support the proposal for adoption which we have been involved in presenting and which was read out by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. In the Radical Left, we have the view of the refugee challenge or the refugee crisis, or whatever it is called, that this is something that the countries of the world must solve together. We think that the debate in Denmark is also going on in other countries, and here too today very much is about how Denmark can avoid having some refugees, but to a lesser extent about how to solve the problem as it is, both for the international community, but also, of course, for the people who are fleeing. It is obvious that more needs to be done to prevent people from fleeing, either by their countries not at war, or by addressing the climate challenges that many believe are going to create a great many refugees, because people simply do not have food and drink where they live. That is why we want to set aside more money for development aid. Now there has been a lot of discussion about the latest proposal of the Social Democratic Party, and we in the Radical Left do not agree with everything, I can say calmly, but this attempt to create a Marshall Plan, I think it will be called, because Africa seems to me to be a very good idea, and we would like to take part in that, but it also requires a willingness to set aside some more money to solve the challenges that exist in a continent such as Africa. Then we would like to see Europe becoming both better and more capable of working together to protect the external borders, but also, as stated in the proposal for adoption, we are helping to put forward an international asylum procedure in the neighbourhood so that people who have to seek asylum in another country because of war or anything else can choose to travel across the Mediterranean in some bad boats and risk their lives in order to get somewhere else. If you had some centres or something else in the neighbourhood where people could go under proper conditions, then you could avoid it. We also think it is wrong that Denmark will not take quota refugees. After all, this is one of the only areas in which international cooperation has been possible to distribute refugees between countries. We think that Denmark has all sorts of interests in participating in this, because if we could make a joint distribution of refugees in Europe or in the world, it would mean that Denmark would not have to bear the entire burden. Then you'll be able to share it. It's gotta be my word here. And, of course, we support the proposal for our own adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523182941	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. And welcome to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523182953	This debate is insanely difficult. It is full of dilemmas because the problem we are discussing is as vast as it is. I fully agree with those who say that the refugee challenge is a global problem. It is not only in Europe that we feel it; in a number of African countries we are sinking under the burden of refugees. Countries such as Uganda, Kenya, Jordan and elsewhere have a huge number of refugees coming to the countries concerned. Recently, people have fled Venezuela, where a so-called socialist has been in power, but he is not a socialist at all. At any rate, people have fled from his regime to Colombia, Brazil and elsewhere, and there has also been a huge refugee problem. So it's not just here, we have it. We also have the problem here, and we must take it seriously. And I would like to say, and that is also why we are not included in the proposal for adoption put forward by Enhedslisten, because we believe that we need to take seriously, that there are challenges for us in Denmark and also for Europe in terms of refugee pressure, which is causing problems in our labour market, in relation to our welfare system, but also political challenges with a right-wing populism that is growing violently. We have to take this seriously, I think, from the left too. That's why we've also worked on these issues from SF and are like willing to have a whole range of tools you need to use here. I fully agree that development aid to remove the conditions for people to flee is extremely important. It is also important that we do conflict prevention around the world and that we address climate problems. I fully agree with that and it is an important part of this. However, where I think we have a problem in the European context, as far as the asylum system we now have is extremely unfair. It is they who have the resources to pay people smugglers who are trying to get here. Some come here, but many drowns in the Mediterranean, and cynical smugglers earn billions of dollars. And I think we have some obligation to try to break the business model that they have. But we can't just do it by throwing them back on the beach, as some people think. We need to take this much more seriously, and this has a lot to do with the fact that we are building centres in the neighbourhoods where they can seek asylum and where there are satisfactory conditions for the people, the refugees who live there, by the UN coming in and having the opportunity to run those centres, and that it is all going to be satisfactory. Following that, we must start to take it much more seriously to take more quota refugees. It is still a scandal that Denmark refused to take the 500 quota refugees that we have had a tradition of taking. It is a great scandal because, like us, we are stepping out of international solidarity, which should also be in the whole of the refugee work. But since, if I may say so, we can make an effort to alleviate the pressure of spontaneous asylum seekers, there are also opportunities for us to take more quota refugees. We can then instead, as it is today, where those who come here are the first to come to the traffickers, that is to say those who have the money for it get a system where you pull a number, if I may say so, come to some centres where it is the United Nations which, like the refugees, make sure that it is the refugees who need it that comes to Europe. In other words, we will have a much more systematic system which is fair, which is coordinated and not random, as it is at the moment, where it is they who have the money and those who pay the traffickers who come here. I think we should continue to work on that. Our thoughts are very much in line with what Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen outlined here from the platform. In fact, I think that there is a basis for us here in the Folketing to start discussing it more closely. Against this background (on behalf of the SF) I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that cynical smugglers earn billions of dollars from transporting refugees and migrants across the Mediterranean with the consequence that thousands of people have to die drowning. Parliament also notes that the refugee problem is a common European challenge which requires European solutions based on EU cooperation. At the same time, fundamental changes are needed in the asylum system: Denmark must resume its obligations under the UN quota system. Asylum treatment should take place in UN centres in the neighbourhood with proper conditions so that refugees are not forced onto dangerous routes. Refugees and migrants trying to cross dangerous routes must be picked up by ships from the European Union who are returning them to these camps. The centres must meet international standards of safety, rights and provide the opportunity for a daily life of work and schooling. Finally, Parliament notes the need for enhanced development aid so that people in Africa have a living basis so that they do not feel compelled to emigrate. • V 59).
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183548	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183553	Thank you. Of course, when I take the floor, it's because I'm a little puzzled about what SF's position really is in this. Of course, I think it is a pity that the SF will not be included in the proposal for adoption put forward by the Alternative, Radical and Enhedslisten. I believe that we take the challenge very seriously and make some concrete proposals, but I understand that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen thought that there was good music in the proposal that has come from the Social Democrats. I must say, I am very puzzled. What we heard from Mr. Simpson. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen today, was that the Turkey Agreement was thus the EU's agreement with Turkey could be a model for other agreements. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen mentioned that the military dictatorship in Egypt could be a country with which to cooperate on such camps. Is that really SF's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183659	I have not mentioned Turkey at all. That is not mentioned at all in our proposal for adoption. I don't understand that question at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183708	When I ask, it's because Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said that it seemed that there had been positive statements from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, who was the Socialist rapporteur who was previously present in the Chamber, and I would just like to hear what the SF thinks is positive about the Social Democrats' proposals. That's why I asked about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183737	If you look at what I am saying and the proposal for adoption that we have and what the Socialists have put forward, then there are a number of similarities in it. That doesn't mean I'm one hundred percent in agreement with everything that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen knows very well that we are also critical of the Turkey Agreement. Why does it have to be taken up like this? He knows that very well. What I am just saying is that I think we have some obligations to take seriously too, that our society is actually under pressure from the pressure of refugees, and we also need to think a little new about the fact that more can be done in the neighbourhood, and that is what we are trying to outline.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183823	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. I see no conservative in the Chamber, so we turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who is warmly welcome in the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523183840	Thank you. It was almost a shame to interrupt the good debate between Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, but all good things will end. So is the debate here, and I would like to thank you for it. As I said, I think that this is an important and very relevant issue that has been raised. For me there is no doubt that as long as all migrants gathered in the Mediterranean are sailed to Europe, it will also encourage others to leave, and it will do so in a way that, firstly, they risk their lives, secondly, they spend all their money, and then they will also overload a European system. At the same time, we have the traffickers, who are quite ready to take advantage of this situation. As I said in my speech, the vast majority of people who are trying to cross the Mediterranean do not need international protection. They have left their homeland alone, hoping to have a better life somewhere else. I understand that they do, but that doesn't change the fact that we can't accommodate the many people. That is why, of course, many of these people will end up seeking asylum in Europe and will be refused. I think it is important that we maintain credibility and a high level of efficiency in our asylum system. There's no doubt it's challenged these years. So the way forward is, in my opinion and in the opinion of the government, to remove, to the greatest extent possible, the incentive to move towards Europe. That is what we have also discussed here today. As I said, I think this has been a good debate and I also think that there have been some very fine speeches along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184107	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184111	Thank you. In the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, we say in the last paragraph, and now I quote: 'The Danish Parliament notes that it is technically possible to draw up a model for the return of migrant boats and to return them immediately to the African continent. Following this, the Danish Parliament invites the government to explore the possibilities for Denmark to contribute to the development of the model outlined. ▪ My question is then: why can the government not support it, that is to say, that one examines how Denmark will be able to contribute to such a solution? Then you can always decide at a later stage whether you want to do it actively.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184149	We're going somewhere else. It is all about removing, you might say, both the incentive to apply for it, but also the business model that the traffickers have built up. Then I would just like to mention again what I mentioned in my speech first in this debate, that, although I would say that it is perhaps fewer and fewer and very few people who really have a need for protection, we are therefore obliged to provide protection in Europe. And that's why you can't just turn the boats around.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184234	Is the Minister in favour of the Australian model? Does the Minister believe that the Australian model of turning the boats around and thus rejecting migrants and asylum seekers is a model that should be commended internationally and should also be commended by Danish? Is it the Minister's view that this should be done? Because if that is the Minister's view, why will the Minister not see whether we can be inspired by the current action in the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184309	I believe that the most immediate model is to try to build up a system in the neighbourhood that will prevent people from embarking on their journey towards Europe. I believe that this is the most effective in the situation we are in now, and I also believe that it is the model that will be the most effective in achieving it at European level. It's all about how we can't do this on our own. And I would say that at European level I think there is both greater and greater interest, but also greater and greater willingness to build up a system of things that I just outlined very briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184356	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184357	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on sir. Martin Henriksen's question. The minister's answer to Mr. Martin Henriksen is that we must remove the incentive for people to embark on the Mediterranean. And there I just have to ask: is it not also to remove the incentive if you turn the boats, because then the migrants know that they have no success and that they might as well not get into those boats, because they are not getting anything out of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184427	Yes, Mrs Pernille Bendixen may be right about that, but we are also in a situation where we cannot go alone. In other words, we will not solve all the problems of Europe alone, as small Denmark, we will not. And the best model for us, I think, to arrive at a solution and if there is someone who is usually very solution-oriented, it is actually the Danish People's Party; I think that is actually a characteristic of the Danish People's Party, and if you have it as a characteristic, then I would say that you should try to support it is a proposal that we have outlined today, which is precisely about building capacity in the neighbourhoods, so that people do not embark on this journey at all. We avoid the loss of human life, we avoid people spending all their money uselessly on coming to Europe, because they are being sent back again and, at the same time, we are destroying the exceptional cynical business model of the traffickers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184535	After all, the Danish People's Party does not have the greatest confidence in the EU system. And so it is true that Denmark cannot go alone, but that is not what we are asking for. After all, we are asking the government to carry this forward, and I hope that there are some international relations that can be used. In his opening speech, the Minister mentions the need to strengthen controls at external borders. Well, there's actually an okay control, as I see it; you're registering everyone who comes in. The problem is that everyone comes in and you just registered them, and then somebody disappears, and you have no idea where the hell they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184614	First of all, to bear the idea further, I would like to say that I have actually discussed these things with my colleagues in the European Union, and in my mind there is no doubt that there is an interest in precisely seeking the model that I have outlined. And it can be said that if it can solve it, it would, in my view, be quite foolish to go across countries working with us and towards the same goal that we have. Then, in my opinion, that is what we should be going for, and that, in my opinion, is what we should be working on very closely. And I can say that some of the countries with which I work here are among others. Austria, but it is also Germany and Finland which have also shown great interest here. I and the government are willing to put some working capital into this, because I totally share the concerns of Mrs Pernille Bendixen and the Danish People's Party on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184728	Thank you very much to the Minister. And Mr. Martin Henriksen has wanted to take the lead in this debate. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523184741	Thank you. Thank you, too, for the debate. In the Danish People's Party we hope that the government and the Folketing will soon reach the same conclusion that we have reached, namely that we need to respond quickly to the fact that the influx continues across the Mediterranean and into Europe. In the view of the Danish People's Party, the EU-Turkey agreement, which has also been mentioned today, has not solved the problem; it has greatly pushed the problems elsewhere. That is why, in our view, much more needs to be done. We should work together with others towards a solution where we turn the boats around and immediately send the boats back to the starting point, that is, where they came from. Of course, this requires that there are others other than the Danish People's Party who want to do so, and I sense that this is how it is every once in a while that we stand alone. But I hope that, along the way, other parties will see the need for us to do more and that we will do it more quickly, but they will not be able to do so at the present time. We note that the government has some ideas and that the Social Democratic Party has some ideas. And, of course, we need to discuss all the solutions, but this must be done quickly, because it is actually urgent to find an effective solution. The most effective solution, then, is to turn the boats around, and those members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration who have visited Australia, I think, will be able to agree. You can then discuss whether you think it is the right model, and you can discuss whether it is humanistic enough or what you want to put into it, but at least you have to agree, I think other things would conflict with common sense that it has had an effect. This has contributed to a dramatic drop in the number of people coming through the sea and has also contributed to a reduction in the number of people who are drowning. At least that's the information we got from the Australian authorities. So we will clearly believe that the most effective solution is to turn the boats around, alternatively to reject asylum seekers at the Danish borders. This is something we can do nationally without having to involve other countries in that resolution. We have just had a motion for a resolution on this by the Danish People's Party. But we must work on that from the Danish People's Party, so we do. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523185009	You're welcome, sir. Martin Henriksen. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is over. The vote on the five proposals for adoption will take place on Thursday 24 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180523185026	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 24 May 2018, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
