ParlaMint-DK_20181219090100	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Transport, Building and Housing Minister (Ole Birk Olesen): Bill no. L 129 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Transport Companies and the Railway Act. Bill No. L 130 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Sund and Bælt Holding A/S. Trade Minister (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill No. L 131 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on maritime safety. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 132 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the tax of electricity and the Law on the tax of pleasure craft insurance. and a reduction in the tax on pleasure craft insurance). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Bill No. L 133 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 71 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of mink farming). Peter Kofod (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 72 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the limitation of relations between the sentenced persons of life). Peter Kofod (DF) and others: Question No. F 32 (Will the government give a status for the Star Star case and indicate what initiatives the government intends to take?). Jens Joel (S), Mikkel Dencker (DF), Thomas Danielsen (V), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Ida Auken (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Erik Lund (KF): Request no. F 31 (What can the Minister say about the government's future climate policy initiatives in the light of the climate policy statement?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181219090248	I would point out that both amendments and the proposal can be commented on and that it will also be allowed to comment on the legislative proposals on expenditure ceilings, L 2 and L 3. The Minister for Finance has informed me that he wishes to take Amendment No. 98, 110, 111, 217, 219, 236, 237, 303, 304, 322, 342, 456, 461, 468, 487, 492, 497, 531-533, 536 and 538-542 remain. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. Then the debate is open. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219090422	A few years ago, one of the country's large financial institutions introduced a large-scale advertising campaign. So now the customers had to understand that the personal service was a thing of the past, and that it was cut and adjusted under the title "New Normal" and "New Normal." The new ordinary, the new normal, for the current government and the current Finance Minister is that the Finance Act will come into being under enormous pressure of time. Things are getting sloppy long after the deadline, although you have had since the end of August to negotiate the Finance Act with your support party. This creates miserable working conditions for Parliament's work on the Finance Act. It increases the risk of lawlessness, but that's not the worst thing. The new common feature of government merely conceals the underlying fact that there are not enough funds to cover year by year, that we are getting older and more children, and therefore more people who need social help, in nursing homes, in hospitals and in day care centres. Even though we are deep in the Christmas month, this year there will not be the big Christmas presents on the Finance Act for the children, for the elderly or for the sick. On the contrary, the government does not spend the money needed to ensure that welfare can keep up when next year there will be more older and more children. The government's own figures show that barely 2.5 billion have been made available. kr. less to the welfare of the last two years with the current prime minister at the helm than the government had originally proposed, i.e. less to welfare out in hospitals, in day care institutions and in nursing homes than the government itself had previously proposed, while at the same time business packages with towering tax cuts have been made for the most wealthy, and while with lower registration fees have been talked about luxury cars for all, yes, with this year's finance agreement the owners of private jet aircraft can also look forward to a tax relief. I'm sorry, I'm saying it a little bumpy, but it's completely out of line with the reality of the Danes... cheaper jets... while the employees of the country's hospitals and nursing homes run even faster. If we look at next year, the government will, unfortunately, continue its course. According to the government itself, 1.3 billion is being set aside. kr. less to welfare in 2019 than previously expected, and when the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior reviewed the Economic Statement, it was also clear that it was directly proud that there has been less welfare and more tax and tax relief. This is, of course, honest talk from a minister from the Liberal Alliance, but it is not in harmony with what the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister and many other government representatives have put before the public in terms of strengthened welfare. In fact, it's the most scraped-out finance law in many years. According to the Economic Statement, apart from a single financial crisis year, there has been no lower public growth since 2006. But not only is it a historically scraped financial law in general, it is also a scraped financial law with health glasses, and that is despite the fact that the government has been warming up the whole year to strengthen health. I am well aware that the government side will probably interpret my criticism as a general opposition party and, if that were the case, one is tempted to say so. However, the clinical diagnosis is not my own. It is made by leading health economists. One thing is that the government in the Finance Act only spends money to ensure that health services can keep their noses open in an election year, another thing is that the things earmarked for the money in no way solve the challenges facing health care. We have a health service in which employees are succumbing to increasing labour pressure and a government that will not reveal their plans for our health services. The only thing that is quite clear is that the government will save massively on our welfare in the coming years. Since the last election, 4 additional staff have been employed in the hospitals, not 400, no, 4. During the same period, 54,000 more patients have been added. 4 more employees, 54,000 more patients, and that is what the government then calls a boost to health care. What we others are seeing is a health service with far too much urgency, with the risk of mistakes being made, a health service where there is no proper time for patients. The government's policy contains no solutions to that. There are also no solutions to the growing problems of overcrowding in the medical departments and no help to the over 100,000 Danes who today do not have their own practicing doctor, and nothing to correct the increasing waiting time for cancer treatment, where one in four cancer patients last year did not get through the packages on time. Meanwhile, we are still waiting for the government's so-called health reform, which has been postponed time and time again. This week we may have learned more about why the reform has been postponed. As Simon Kvamm would say, over and over and over again. In the Social Democratic Party we do not believe that new lines on a Danish map, conceived in a small, closed room by a few ministers and officials, are the solution to the problems facing health care. Nor do we believe that patients, employees or relatives are served by our health care being thrown into another structural experiment. The government's desk project to shut down the regions will only lead to further centralisation, while what we need is to bring back the proximity of health care. We must understand that several Left mayors and prominent Leftmen agree with us on this. The mayor of the left in Herning, Lars Krarup, believes that the government's plans to centralise health care will distort the balance in Denmark. According to him, it is hardly for the benefit of citizens that decisions are moved from the regions to spreadsheets in Copenhagen. Right must be right, and those are actually wise words from a Leftman. Far from being the only critical voice. Also the former Chairman of the Left and Minister for Defence, Mr. Søren Gade, calls politically designated boards as administratively responsible for hospitals, ambulance services and medical coverage, quote: the ultimate horror scenario. According to him, it is a liberal basic view that decisions must be taken close to the citizens. I can tell you that this is also a basic socialist approach. Instead of large-scale star war structure projects, the Social Democratic Party has presented a clear plan for a health service with more time, more proximity, more equality and a plan addressing the real challenges facing health care. We will invest a total of 53 billion towards 2025. kr. in our health care system. We will, among other things. recruit 1,000 more nurses and give all new mothers the right to stay 2 days in the hospital after birth, so that there will be more time for patients and a better working environment with less hurry. Last time we were in government, 1,100 more nurses were hired during the first two years. We have done this before, and we believe that we can succeed again. We will also set up new near hospitals so that elderly patients and people with chronic illness in particular do not need to go right to the large hospital to be treated for completely common and uncomplicated diseases that could just as well be dealt with closer. We have also proposed the creation of 100 new training posts in general medicine to train more general practitioners. What does the government want? We still have to get answers to that, again and again and again. Now I would just like to anticipate today's debate slightly by stating that in the Social Democratic Party we have presented our financial law priorities. Our first priority is to hold hands under welfare. Secondly, we want to ensure proper education, on which our future must be built, and that is why we must abolish the re-priority contribution to education and training. We need to put turbo on the green switch. We in the Social Democratic Party are ready to commit ourselves to a concrete target for green cars, and with the Prime Minister's announcement on green cars, it should not really be so difficult to agree on, but when it came to the end of a closed negotiating room, unfortunately, it tricked the government's green ambitions. In the Social Democratic Party we have presented one 2025 plan, one, and it is still holding back, while the government of the Finance Minister, who sits down here and chuckles, has presented three, and not one of them lasts any longer, not even the latest one, because there is no one who believes in the realisticness of an increased job offer of 60 000 people, not even the Foreign Minister. There have not been many negotiating meetings for the Social Democratic Party in connection with this year's Finance Act, I can say, and there you must tell the Finance Minister that he has been surprisingly honest in his announcement after the sitting. It was to be a Finance Act, which was concluded alone with the Danish People's Party, and thus it became. In other words, it is not the Social Democratic Party that has stood with crossed arms at the negotiating table. We have not been invited at all, and we can, of course, look at the result, said to the Danish People's Party. However, before I finish, I will, after all, sign up for the convened negotiations on pension savings for people on transfer income. Social democracy participates constructively in these negotiations. When you look at this year's financial law negotiations, you have to conclude the old truth that history repeats itself for the first time as a tragedy, the second time as a farce. This is also the case with the current Finance Minister's draft budget. When we stood here a year ago, it was on the basis of collapse and twirling, this year it is on the basis of a farce where gold and green forests were promised on welfare, but in no way was delivered the promised.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091429	Thank you. Then we start with the brief remarks. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091434	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. One sits down here and thinks: I wonder if we have read the same Finance Act; one does not believe it. I have a question for the rapporteur, since everything is so terrible. Are they 1.3 billion? kr., you now spend a year raising the economy for the country's pensioners, which means that if you are a pensioner with a full retirement pension, you will experience a boost of DKK 3,800. Here in 2019, some money that you wouldn't have spent? After all, they have left public spending because they are now being given to the citizens. I understand from the rapporteur that this is one of the things the rapporteur would like to roll back. They're simply being used wrongly, so now we're putting this 1.3 billion. kr. into the pockets of pensioners; they should have been spent on something else. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091525	No. We are ready to endorse the agreement that is in the area of pensions. We have entered the negotiating room to which the Minister for Finance had invited us, and we are also prepared to go further down that road. We would like to see a number of challenges identified in this area, including: some interaction challenges that it looks like you're actually creating, and we'd like to look at that a little bit more closely. But I would now have liked to have been even better able to ensure that, by the way, not only pensioners had been thought about, but also about the benefits of the welfare society and, of course, had ensured that sufficient resources were also available for care for the elderly, for health, etc. In the light of my speech, there can be no doubt that this was what had been desirable with social democratic spectacles.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091616	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091619	I understand that. Can the Social Democratic Party then recognise that there is also some welfare in having a dignified life as an elderly person, including economically, so that you get a little bit more to do good with? Can the Social Democratic Party also recognise that, when you look at the work that has been done in connection with the Finance Act, you have also changed the rules of set-off, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Does one recognise that even if it does not count for this in public spending it does not count for when the rapporteur stands up there and calls it welfare it is a form of welfare that one has a slightly greater amount of money available when one is outside the labour market, especially as a national pensionist? Then it actually matters, and it starts as early as January 1, 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091713	As I said, we have no problem with strengthening this, on the contrary. This seems to us to be a very good idea, in other words, the whole way to look at benefits and regulate them in the future, including the savings that must be made for early retirement and for other beneficiaries of transfer income. This seems very sensible, and we would like to take part in the discussions on this. But it must also be said that, like many times before, it would probably have been very wise for a Social Democrat to sit next to the Danish People's Party in the negotiating room. The results are usually just getting better, and this has been said in a friendly manner, because I actually think that I usually have a pretty good working relationship with Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091755	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091759	I can do it, just like Mr. Kim. René Christensen sits with a quiet wonder and wonders whether it is actually the same financial law that the Social Democrat rapporteur has read and based on, as we have. And it is a Denmark that the rest of us experience is not a perfect country, but, after all, one of the best countries in the world, which is described here as if it is almost on the edge of the abyss, one must understand. When we look down on the amendments presented by the Social Democratic Party, it is claimed that there is a financial bill, but we know that is just a brochure with a few headings. We have to say that it leaves a lot to be desired. I just want to ask you quite specifically about some of the points, and that is what today can be used for. After all, there are proposals today to abolish the integration allowance and the ceiling on cash benefits. How does the Social Democratic Party feel about the proposals to abolish the benefits of integration and the ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219091852	Actually, I'm not sure if Mr. Jacob Jensen has then read the Social Democrats' amendments, because if Mr. Jacob Jensen has done so, Mr. Jacob Jensen has found that the Social Democrats' amendments reflect our financial priorities. They are financed crown by crown, completely and completely. That is why I think it is an easy matter to claim that there has not been a fully funded proposal from the Social Democratic Party, because that is actually what has been, and that is what our budget amendments reflect. In relation to benefits, it is no secret that, when we have talked about benefits, we have proposed a benefit commission set up after the next parliamentary elections. This is because we point out that services are complex and something that needs to be looked at in a more broad perspective. Such a service commission shall make an offer as to how, inter alia, In the future, cash benefits must be provided in such a way that, among other things, they can be taken into account. takes into account debt and rent differences across the country. However, it is clear that it is very important for us that solutions should be found in particular so that there are no children growing up in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092007	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092010	How am I supposed to understand that answer in relation to the integration service? Are we in favour, or are we against the proposal that will be put forward later today? There is an amendment coming from parties that I assume will support the Social Democracy as Prime Minister's Party, and those are parties that want the integration benefit to be abolished. What is the position of the Social Democrats on the concrete proposal? I guess you can't just say that you don't really have a position on that and that you have to see it in a broader perspective. It is a concrete proposal that the funds for refugee families should be increased in the region of DKK 10,000. a month if the proposal goes through. How does the Social Democratic Party feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092047	As I said, it is more complex than that, and that is why our answer is quite simple: if a Social Democratic Government comes after the next elections, a Commission for Benefits will be set up. Until the benefit commission has completed its work, we will find solutions so that families with children do not find themselves in a situation where children end up growing up in impoverished conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092107	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092111	Thank you very much, and thank you for a speech that contained justified criticism of the government's financial agreement. Now it is the case that the Social Democratic Party itself will finance a large part of the welfare by forcing the Danes to retire later on. But the question is whether there is a weakening of that view, because I noticed last week that the Social Democrat President opened up a differentiated retirement age. I think it is positive that the chairman of the Social Democratic Party has realised that it is not possible to ask a slaughterhouse worker or a dock worker to work until they are 70 years old. However, my question is: how will the Social Democratic Party implement it when it has agreed to a settlement that means constantly increasing the retirement age? So the question is: will the Social Democratic Party terminate the conciliation in order to negotiate a differentiated retirement age, or will it be raised to 69 years in 2020, when the next decision is to be taken on an increase in retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092221	We have a task to do, in the form of ensuring that those who are worn out also have a dignified way of retreating. We fully recognise this as a challenge that we must address. And it must also be recognised that there is no reason to believe that, with the present government, we are getting constructive proposals on how this can be resolved, and that is why it is an unsolved task that lies with a possible future social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092251	Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092253	My question is: will the Social Democratic Party terminate the conciliation that is going to take place on eternal increases in retirement age, or will the Social Democratic Party submit to that settlement, which means, of course, that by 2020 the Social Democracy will vote in favour of an increase in the retirement age to 69 years? It's a very simple question. It is clear from the conciliation and from the legislative text that this is what is going to happen, because the average life expectancy has already increased so much that the retirement age should have been raised to 6911⁄2 years by 2015. This could not be done because it only has to be increased by one year at a time. So it is a very simple question: will the Social Democratic Party terminate that conciliation, or will it vote in 2020 for an increase in the retirement age to 69 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092347	First of all, there is an unsolved challenge in relation to the worn out. The fact that there is a broad settlement in the area of pensions back in 2006 is Conversely, if you cancel the settlement it will allow the parties that are then left to implement some of their potential wet dreams of raising the retirement age even more. And you always find the Social Democracy where you take responsibility. We don't care about slogans, we care about taking responsibility. And that is why we want to solve the challenge of the worn out and we want to ensure that there will be no further increases in the retirement age than what has already been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092437	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092440	Thank you for that, President. Social democracy takes responsibility, it is said. At the same time, however, it is said from the platform that much more money needs to be spent on public spending. The extra money spent on older people is actually appreciated, but on top of that more money is needed for public spending. But the purpose of fiscal policy is more than spending more money. It is also to ensure that, when you are in a boom, you do not put extra coal under the boilers so that you get into a situation where there is overheating. I guess that's the very epitome of taking responsibility. The fact is that if the Social Democratic Party had done what the Social Democratic Party says they would have done, if the people had given them power, then the people would not have done so, fortunately, there would not be a responsible fiscal policy. Then more money would be spent and a situation would be created where fiscal policy would be cyclical, and that is the epitome of irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092548	Well, if sir... Joachim B. Olsen is genuinely concerned about bottlenecks and overheating, one should assume that it would do what is generally good logic, namely to say that in a boom, the best social policy one can possibly pursue is to ensure that everyone enters the labour market. If you have the starting point, then you would naturally say that we must ensure that those who are far from the labour market are given the best possible starting point to get into it. This is done by giving priority to continuing training and retraining. But what is it, sir? Joachim B. Olsen, the VLAK government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left have voted? It is not to strengthen qualification, it is to save on it. One billion has been saved. kr. There is going to be a marked decline in the possibility of lifting those who are the furthest from the labour market and who have the greatest need for upgrading. That is, of course, to do exactly the opposite of what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen preaches.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092646	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092650	I simply note that the number of citizens on transfer income is the lowest in 30 years, that employment has never been higher. There has never been a social democratic government which has been responsible for Denmark, which has been able to say that employment is as high as it is now. In addition, when it comes to upgrading, a tripartite agreement has been drawn up, something that the Social Democratic Government could not manage to do with friends in the trade union movement, which is just about upgrading; it is, as far as I remember, an agreement of about 3 billion. kr. So it is simply not true what the rapporteur says. Social democracy doesn't really have anything to do with it. I understand that this is a problem for the Social Democratic Party, but the figures speak their clear language: employment is historically high, unemployment is historically low, never so many people have been in employment ■ that is a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092742	You can cheat some of the population some of the time, but not the whole population all the time, there is a wise man who once said. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen himself voted this week to save 1 billion. kr. adult education. I'm sorry, but that's actually the truth. kr. a year. In fact, that money has gone to finance the business package, if Mr. Joachim B. Olsen should have forgotten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092806	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092810	Thank you. Not surprisingly, I would like to talk about the climate. I am interested to hear what the social democracy plan for the North Sea really is. It is the case that, according to the UN climate panel, we have to charge 80%. of the known reserves of fossil energy stay underground. That means we can pull 20%. out of what we know. As you know, we have committed ourselves to working for a maximum temperature increase of 2 degrees, preferably 11⁄2 degrees, and this 11⁄2 degree was actually confirmed by the Minister only at COP24 last week. The one-and-a-half degree is the goal that we must pursue, and that is why we need to take the challenge of fossil reserves seriously. Nevertheless, with the exception of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, the Danish Parliament has drawn up a North Sea agreement, and with the eighth invitation to tender, it has invited the oil companies to investigate new oil and gas in the North Sea and to draw up what is at least much more than 100 per cent. So what are the Social Democrats' thoughts about our obligation to charge 80%? Stay in the subway?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092929	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219092932	Thank you for the question. I'm happy to focus on the green as well. I do not think there can be any doubt that there really is a difference here between the blocs of Danish politics, regardless of how else the alternative envisages the formation of blocs. We have a commitment to reduce our CO2 Our commitment is to eliminate fossil fuels in the order in which it can be said that what is most disgusting is first done away with. That is to say, we start with the coal, and then the other fossil fuels come. This also means that even if we are going to be long by 2030, there will still be a need for a period after that to have oil and gas. We can then choose to produce it ourselves or alternatively to buy it abroad at the risk of being dependent on other countries' regimes. Social democracy prefers to be self-sufficient and thus to be able to make a financial contribution, income, to finance the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093045	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093049	It has to be said that if Denmark insists that we should be allowed to pull up all our known reserves, then we have to make some agreements with other countries that they should then pull even less than 20%. of their well-known reserves, for it is, of course, all over the world that we have to go to only 20 per cent. of the known reserves up and burn them off. And that applies to the North Sea, that applies to all other countries. So what kind of agreements do the Social Democrats think we can make or are they already made?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093123	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093126	The most important thing we can do is to convert Danish society, the Danish energy supply, into sustainable as soon as possible, and there is no secret that social democracy has quite great ambitions. Of course, the great ambitions must also be financed. Until the time when we are independent of fossil fuels, I would rather that Denmark is self-sufficient and that the income resulting from this can help to contribute to the treasury and thus help to finance the green transition. In fact, I think that is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093200	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093207	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I think it is at least the best speech of the day so far, so thank you for it. Things are going very well in Denmark, and that is the way things should go. That is also why I should like to say a little horror about this proposal by the Social Democratic Party for a six-fold change of generation tax for family-owned companies, and that the Social Democrat will to brand tax return on capital, so that real taxation is in fact at risk of over 100 per cent. Under the Thorning Government, a Productivity Commission was set up, which in fact came up with the very opposite conclusions, namely that capital taxation should be reduced in order to increase productivity in Denmark. What has actually happened since the change in attitude in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093255	After all, the Commission did not then recommend lowering the tax to the low level that it ended up with. It was actually lowered by 10%. more than recommended. Social democracy proposes to bring the situation back to what it was in 2009 before the red wine reform. Similarly, we are also proposing to bring back the inheritance tax for companies, and therefore for the very wealthiest families in Denmark, to the level at which it was when the current government took over. I actually think that's just right and fair. It is not the case that companies could not be created in Denmark until 2009 or before 2015. On the contrary, it has quite rightly been possible to do so. Then I am delighted that, in general terms, we have agreed politically in the Danish Parliament to make it easier to make success for business foundations, a good, well-known Danish tradition to ensure stable framework conditions for, among other things. family-owned companies that both care for families and benefit society and, above all, businesses themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093410	But I would also like to sign up for the cooperation that we often have on business policy. But in this area I just think it is so violent that in this way you suddenly go in with a significant increase, i.e., for example. a six-fold increase in the generational change tax. This means that these family-owned companies, which are the backbone of Danish business, and which are often locally anchored around the country and may have been there for generations, run the risk of getting into foreign hands.So you have to sell off in connection with a generational change because you simply cannot compete with the other companies, which are not subject to this generational tax. Is the rapporteur not concerned that we risk losing these family-owned companies, which are the backbone of Danish business and which account for a very large proportion of our exports and wealth in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093451	There is no question of a doubling. I know that this view has been put forward by a lobbying network of very well-proposed family businesses, but that is not true. We are actually leading it back to what it was when the current government took over the power of government. In other words, company taxation has not been reduced on inheritance tax as much as I think the Conservatives themselves may think. So no, it's just bringing things back to what it was like before. I should just like to remind you that the reduction in the inheritance tax that was carried out has, after all, been recognised by the Minister for Taxation as having no effect whatsoever on employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093533	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093537	Thanks for a good speech. There were a number of points on which we in the Radical Left agree. I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur what the Social Democrats think of spending 0.75 billion. kr. On this island of asylum, Lindholm. Is this a proposal that, when we vote on it tonight, you will support?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093607	Thank you for the question. I am also glad to hear that Radicals can also see many sensible points of view in what I have said in my speech. Social democracy itself has proposed that we should create a new exit centre, that is to say, that we should make the fragmentation which is at issue here, where we should separate the convicted rejected asylum seekers from the others. That is why we want to help find money for such a new centre, but it is also the government and the Danish People's Party that have decided that the centre should be where it is now proposed. We understand that the decision has been taken very quickly and that is why, of course, we also expect that the parties to the agreement have secured a proper basis for the decision, but it is not a basis for decision that we have been presented with. That is why I simply note that today's amendment is about allocating a larger bag of money to the centre. As I said, we support a centre, but we do not know the specific basis for decision, and on that basis we will vote yellow, in other words abstain from voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093721	Thank you. Let me remind you at the beginning that we must be careful to address each other according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Here you go again, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093734	Thank you for that answer. I just want to point out that it is wrong to call these people condemned, because they have done their time. Then I would like to put another question to the Social Democrat rapporteur. I noted that the rapporteur said in his speech that social democracy will abolish all savings on education next year. We're really happy about that. How will the Social Democratic Party finance to eliminate the savings that it is approx. 0.5 billion kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093817	The amendments tabled by the Social Democrats include our overall proposals for using money and, accordingly, our total funding. So that is clear from the amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093828	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093832	Thanks for the speech. Social democracy wants to be the child's party. And we can see that under this government child poverty has increased quite significantly. Now there are 64,500 children growing up in poverty. We have heard from the Social Democrats and from the rapporteur, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht states that the Social Democracy will set up a Services Commission. It will then have to find solutions at any given time. But what is the Social Democrat plan here and now to reduce child poverty significantly? Because I think we share that desire.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219093921	It is, of course, first and foremost to adapt the services intelligently to the future. In the very short term, we will seek to find models so that we can ensure that the families of children most affected can also receive some help. It is clear that we will have to be lucky enough to take over government after the next elections, but there will be some kind of temporary solution. Then it is clear that in order to ensure that there is actually an effect in this area, it is also necessary to find a way to measure poverty that makes sense. Unfortunately, we have seen with the present government that the poverty line has simply been abandoned, that is to say it has stopped measuring it. There has been a kind of indirect measurement because, because of the need to report to the United Nations on the UN's global goals, poverty has actually to be measured anyway. Even if this is the best possible indicator, we may have some doubts about it, and therefore it makes sense to look at making such a poverty limit again, so that we can actually measure that we are also developing things in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094036	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094040	That's quite right, and sir. Benny Engelbrecht also has the needle in his laptop. It is precisely because we have also said that we want to meet the global goals that we have to measure poverty. Perhaps something has come out of Denmark's Statistics against the will of the government. However, when we took over government power in 2011, we immediately introduced a poverty limit in order to be able to measure precisely whether child poverty fell, and it did so when we were in government. That is why I also hope that the Social Democratic Party will be involved in promising the people that we are setting a poverty limit and that we will have significantly and rapidly reduced poverty, not least for the many children and there will only be more of them with this policy that grows up in poverty in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094134	First of all, thank you for noticing that I am wearing the world target pin. I welcome this as chairman of the interparliamentary working group on world objectives. It has nothing to do with me being really good at Trivial Pursuit, so am I, but it hasn't. I would like to give an undertaking that, of course, we must be able to measure that it works, and I can only agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that under the previous government we also managed to reduce the number of children growing up in poverty, and that must of course also be a target for a new government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094210	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094218	Thank you very much. After all, the Social Democrat rapporteur referred to the new normal in his speech. In reality, it can be said that if you only see the Finance Act with Greenland's glasses, it is, of course, a positive financial law with many new and good measures in relation to improving the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. If this scenario is new normal, it is certainly seen with Greenlandic glasses something that we can live with. Inuit Ataqatigiit is Greenland's free voice in the Folketing, and at the same time we are also part of the Red Election Union and the Red Block, and this is the last Finance Act that we close in this parliamentary term, so I would like to ask the Social Democracy: Will you also ensure that Greenlandic and Faroese MPs have the opportunity to participate in the finance negotiations forward-looking? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094310	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the measures that have been taken for Greenland in connection with this year's Finance Act and that are taking place among other things. on cultural awareness, investment promotion and airports The Social Democratic Party has agreed. I think it is quite essential to say that if there is a change of government, these measures will not be jeopardised. I would like to emphasise this point. Then it is clear that all parties in the Folketing, all represented in the Folketing, should of course also and must be treated properly, including in the context of the Finance Act. I note that it also applies to the North Atlantic representatives that they are being invited to join, and I think that is a good tradition that we should stick to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094405	Thank you, and please remember to comply with the Rules of Procedure again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094410	Thank you very much. The rapporteur's point is that it is, in fact, a cooperation across different parties, which underlines precisely that this being Greenland's free voice makes a great deal of sense in the Folketing. But it is also the case that the government has taken a number of independent initiatives in the Finance Act, among others. in the field of culture, as the rapporteur also mentioned. Is this something the rapporteur also imagines that social democracy will do forward-looking if you sit at the table of a new government after the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094443	Please observe the Rules of Procedure. You don't say "I." You don't address directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094447	Thank you, President. For the sake of good order, I would like to say that this part of the Social Democrat Party has also joined, and so there is a solid basis for it. Yes, it is clear that knowledge about North Atlantic conditions, both Faroese and Greenlandic, is something that is also at the heart of the Social Democracy and which we must of course also think about. I think it would be natural to look year by year at the challenges that exist. After all, there are many challenges both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and it is clear that it is not challenges that go away with just one year's financial agreement. We are also very aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094534	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094543	Thank you. On 27 November, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: We need to find a place further away to the criminals. We call on the government to review the entire country with a close comb to find a place that is more remote. It could be on an island. ▪ The rapporteur now says that you have to find a place other than Lindholm. Is it because you change your mind all the time, or because rapporteur Mr. Mattias Tesfaye was wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094616	In fact, I do not think I have said that here from the platform. No, actually, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094628	Well, I understood sir. Benny Engelbrecht, that answer to Mr. Andreas Steenberg's question was that one would vote yellow to an alternative to Lindholm because one did not know the underlying economy about it. Then it must also mean that we do not support the proposal that lies in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094647	That must be very hard to understand. I am very sorry, but I would like to repeat that. It is the government and the Danish People's Party that have decided that this center should be where it is proposed. We understand that the decision has been taken very quickly and, of course, we in the Social Democrats expect that the parties to the agreement will ensure a proper basis for the decision, but we have not been given that basis for decision. That's what I've been saying. So I'm sorry, but Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm is quoting me wrong. It is true that we will not vote for or against the proposal, but it is partly because we have not been involved in the decision on this centre. But the very principle of dividing up is one that we fully agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094733	Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094735	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht for the speech, but I have to admit that I do not quite understand this statement which came up with the question from Mr. Andreas Steenberg, namely that we shall abstain from voting on the proposal on the desert island. I mean, I thought that the Social Democratic Party was in charge of a strict immigration policy and did not want to gather people who are deeply criminals and are deported from Denmark, but still remain hanging. - Sir... Benny Engelbrecht does not explain a little further what the background is for abstaining and what information is missing? I understand that the lack of information is one of the problems. Well, the whole country is discussing the desert island. What kind of information is needed to decide on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094821	Well, it's very simple. The government and the Danish People's Party have made this decision. We haven't been invited to finance negotiations. Peter Skaarup, too. Generally speaking, if we are invited, we will, of course, come too. We also like to contribute in the field of foreigners and usually prefer to make broad agreements, including in this area. That is why I must just stress that the amendment to the Finance Act, which is to be voted on today, is about granting a larger bag of money to set up the Centre at Lindholm. As I have said, we support a new exit centre, but we do not know the concrete basis for the location, and that is why we are voting yellow for this draft budget, so neither yes nor no. It is not a question of us being opposed to splitting up the divide, on the contrary, because that is what we have proposed ourselves. We have not been involved in the actual location and work on it. If the government would have wanted it, if the Danish People's Party had wanted it, they could have involved us in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094933	Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219094937	Often there is a fine reasoning behind political decisions, but precisely here I simply do not understand what information is lacking in order to be able to take a position on this amendment in the context of the Finance Act. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht says that you are very happy to contribute to foreign policy. It is fine, and it is good that the Social Democratic Party has changed course in the field of foreigners, but should we not just back up here where we are doing something in relation to an area that has sailed around, also under social democratic ministers over the years? I also wonder why we are going to vote yellow because Mr. Mattias Tesfaye said in connection with an interview that this desert island was spot-on-so what's the problem? Why do we not just vote in favour and start to correct the shortcomings which Danish immigration policy has had over the years and which we are trying to rectify here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095040	As I began my speech with this year's financial law negotiations have been marked by the general chaos that prevails under the current Finance Minister, where everything has to be done at the last minute and deadlines are exceeded and things like that. It's been really, really fast. Had you had a desire to involve the Social Democratic Party on this point, I am also quite sure that a quick telephone call would have done a great deal. That's why we're just saying that we're gonna be allowed to study this a little closer. That is why we are abstaining, but we agree with the very principle of dividing up and creating a new exit centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095113	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095121	Thank you for a very fine speech in many ways with a precise criticism of the Finance Act that we are taking a position on today. There was one subject, however, which I think could have been dealt with in more detail by Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's side, and that is the sad increase we have seen in the number of poor children. For the number of children living in families below the poverty line has increased from 2016 to 2017, and it is now 64,500 children living in poverty in Denmark. Between 2011 and 2015, the number of poor children in Denmark was actually reduced. However, after the introduction of poverty benefits, where the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration allowance have arrived, we have seen an explosion in the development of the number of poor children. And then the question is: why should it all be put down in a jar of jelly, a performance commission? Why can we not just abolish poverty benefits from day one, while at the same time enabling wider work to be started and some studies to be carried out on what else needs to be done in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095228	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095231	It's actually more complicated than that. Looking at poverty, there are many triggers. When you look at the individual benefits, there are many elements. It is not the benefit itself, the benefit alone, you look at, you also have to look at, for example, how a family is indebted debt is a major challenge in poor families. Another challenge is that there are very large rent differences, housing cost differences across the country, and this means that what may be a major financial burden in an area with high rents is not necessarily in another area with some lower rents. All this needs to be looked at in order to set up services that make more sense and which actually solve the challenges of a performance commission. But that does not mean that we should not also find models in the short term so that we can help the families of children affected. And I recognise that yes, there are challenges with families living in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095342	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095349	Anyway, for those who stand at the end of the month and can't get the money to last, this means a lot. And, of course, we can see that precisely the three poverty benefits, i.e. the ceiling on cash benefits, the integration allowance and the 225-hour rule, have caused the explosion in the number of poor children. When I ride around Copenhagen, I can see pictures of Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who sits and smiles with children and wants to be the prime minister of the children. And then the only question is: why will the Social Democrats not announce clearly here before an election that they intend to abolish the poverty benefits that are the determining factor in relation to the explosion in child poverty that we have seen since 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095423	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095427	So I have to arrest the expression that there are families who find it difficult to get the money to beat at the end of the month. When we talk about families who are seriously affected by poverty, where there is a large debt, we talk about families who can see that it is difficult to get things together at the beginning of the month. And that's what's so unhappy, that even if you go in and look at the cash benefits ceiling alone, 225-hour rule, etc., there will still be families who will have different challenges. We need to look at this in a broader perspective in order to resolve it therefore a performance commission. But that does not mean that we cannot find solutions in the short term too, because I agree that the growing up of children in poverty is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095525	Thank you. And then it's sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095528	Thank you. Later in the day there will be an amendment from the government to abolish the benefits of integration, which is why it is surprising that the Social Democrats have not yet taken a position on how to vote on it. But we will have to wait and see what the answer to that is. What I want to talk about is the amount of benefit. After all, we have lowered it from the blue to what it is on now, and further changes have been put in place. There I would point out and ask that the Social Democrat rapporteur has said in the past that the amount of benefits is important for the influx to Denmark. And then it may be surprising that the Social Democrats are now going out and replying in concrete terms, even in the debate the other day, that they are not satisfied with the level of benefit now, that is to say, they want it to be raised. As a result, this will increase the influx to Denmark, which is not linked to the argument that, on the other hand, we are actually supporting a strict immigration policy. So how does this really relate to the fact that people say that they want to increase benefits in the field of integration benefits, even though it might be called something else? It goes against the signals which are, moreover, being sent out that we want a strict foreign policy. It doesn't really add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095640	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095642	So, I would like to repeat that the Social Democratic Party has a proposal to set up a Services Commission to look at this broadly. We've answered that one time. I do not think that we are going down that road so much, apart from finding that this is something we will do immediately after an election, we should be privileged to take over government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095702	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095704	Thank you. But I have also heard that the rapporteur has replied a few times that it will be sent in a Commission. However, it must be possible to give such an answer that it is not connected when you say, on the one hand, that you want to increase the benefits, which will clearly increase the influx to Denmark, and, on the other hand, that many of the other proposals which signal and in practice implement a strict immigration policy are included. I mean, these two things don't add up. It is also the case that the Social Democrat rapporteur has said in the debate in the past that the level of benefits has an impact on the influx. So one might well ask: why is it that the Social Democratic Party does not want to maintain that image?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095745	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095747	But the whole point is that simply rolling everything back involves some challenges and that simply holding onto what the current government has done will lead to more children growing up in poverty; more children being impoverished; more children who are going to experience poor conditions of upbringing. And you just have to say that's not a solution either. That is why the Social Democratic Party says quite pragmatically: we actually want to find solutions to this which secures the balances, contrary to what the current government is doing that just wants children to grow up in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095826	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party, as the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095841	Thank you. I can understand the rapporteur's reply to my colleague, Mr President. René Christensen that the Social Democratic Party would like to join the increase in the retirement pension. On the other hand, I can understand the answer to my colleague Mr. Peter Skaarup, that you cannot take a decision on the exit centre to be located at Lindholm, and that is so supposedly because you have not been part of the negotiations on it. However, the social democracy has not been part of the negotiations on the pension package that we would like to join. What is the logic of wanting to join some things without debate, and that other things will be left out of the question because you have not been part of the negotiations? This does not make any sense, especially since the pension package in kronor and ear is a much larger package than the exit centre at Lindholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219095923	That is not quite right either, because the Social Democratic Party is actually invited to debate both the future of the rate regulation and the area of pensions etc. together with the Radical Left, along with the SF and with the Alternative. I have also said this in my rapporteur's speech and also acknowledged it, and the Minister for Finance must be given the credit that we have just been invited and that we, of course, also intend to engage constructively in those discussions. As I also said in one of my previous answers, we see that there is a small potential challenge in relation to the fact that perhaps we are actually helping to create a small new interplay problem, and we should of course be going beyond that, so that in relation to people who have been saving their own pension over a long period of time through this compulsory saving scheme, which replaces the rate regulation, there is no set-off of more than one hundred per cent in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219100032	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219100037	However, I could understand the rapporteur's reply to my colleague, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Skaarup that one could not vote in favour of the resolution on Lindholm because one had not been part of the negotiations. You were not invited to anything forward-looking, but it was because you had not been part of the decision backwards, just as you have not been part of the decision to stop the rate regulation of the national pension. So what is it that makes the two things so radically different that one thing you want to add to here later this evening without having been part of the negotiations, but the other thing you obviously cannot decide on on on the same grounds, so that you have not been part of the negotiations? I simply do not understand the difference between the arguments in the two cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219100115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219100118	But that's because we're negotiating. That's kind of the difference. I fully agree that we cannot negotiate the basic principles of this, because they have been laid down and that is completely accepted. But we have also pointed to some corners that we think should be looked at, and I have to say that I actually see there that the government has been relatively responsive. So I actually can't quite follow Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen in that it should be so strange, for it is
ParlaMint-DK_20181219100156	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then, unfortunately, we have to end the series of speeches because of the time. Then it is the next rapporteur. Here you go, sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219100210	The financial bill for 2019 now contains a financial bill that we in the Danish People's Party are very pleased with. I would like to start by thanking the government for its very good cooperation in drafting the proposal and that is a thank you to all the governing parties and, of course, especially to the Finance Minister, who has been at the forefront of all the negotiations. We entered into the negotiations with a lot of things. We had some lumps bigger than others. One of the large lumps was the older area. Many would say: Well, what was the area you were dealing with in the area of the elderly? I would like to say that in the past we have contributed to the allocation of 1 billion. kr., the dignity billion. It continues in 2019. There will also be a dignity billion, a thousand million. kr. out to the municipalities, which can be used for the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, it can be seen that a great many municipalities, because it is now coming above the block subsidy, are beginning to cut it. I would say that we will keep a very close eye on that. What we had a special focus on this time was the amount available to the elderly: what is the amount available to the elderly? The biggest challenge in that is that we have the bet pool. The rate pool has had a noble purpose, the rate pool has done a good job in relation to the socially vulnerable, but the funding has been a challenge. The bet pool has been financed, among other things. pensioners have been cut year after year in the benefit they should have received in the form of a retirement pension. They have not followed the wage developments that have taken place in society. It's gonna happen now. From 1 January 2019, we will have the rate pool closed, and I would like to meet you. the Socialist rapporteur signs what he has said, namely that you want to be part of it and go into the negotiations. I'd like to sign for that. So the rate pool disappears, which means that, in the future, a folk pensionist will now see that when you rise in society, the folk pension increases too. This is the most important thing that has happened to the amount available to pensioners. At the same time, of course, we have been looking at the set-off rules. The pensioners who have saved up while they were on the labour market should not be sitting out there laughing at their own money. There we have done so, that we have increased it by DKK 15 000, both in relation to the old-age check and in relation to the supplementary pension. This means that you are now not counted against your old cheque until you get more than DKK 35,000. in your own pension, and that you are not set off in the supplementary pension until you get more than DKK 85,000. in your own pension. It means a lot to a lot of older people. At the same time, we have also been looking at the set-off rules if you are in the labour market. If you are on a retirement pension and want to be on the labour market, we have got two additional opportunities here: you can continue full-time and then you will get a premium of DKK 30,000 which will be tax-free, and at the same time, if you are on the labour market, you will find that we have raised the limit by DKK 40,000. This means that there will only be set-off after you have earned the first DKK 100,000. in the labour market. So the elderly, who would like to retreat a little slower, are now experiencing a significantly smaller set-off. At the same time, we have also been looking at the early retirementists. The rules change, so that if you are married to an early retirement, the set-off is increased by DKK 40,000. It's a fantastic package. Then, as has been said in this Chamber, this is a package which the Social Democrats would like to endorse. I'd like to say to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht: It is not open for debate. The package is not for negotiation, that the set-off is 15,000 DKK. further. It is not negotiable that the set-off is DKK 40,000. further. We won't be touched by that. We're not going to put it down or up. That's the deal. Then we had another thing that was also important for the Danish People's Party. It was the paradigm shift. What's a paradigm shift? A paradigm shift is that we go a different way than the one we have gone before. It is incredibly important that we focus on the fact that the people who come to Denmark with a need for accommodation and protection and the right to stay and protection get it. We have now also been assured that one can enter the labour market and one can also become self-supporting. You can also learn the language and get to work for a period of time in Danish society, but it doesn't give It doesn't mean Paradigm change is now what the lawyers sit and work with, until we get the bill forward that when you come to Denmark, you are of course here temporarily. And why is that? We want, of course, when people have fled from something and it stops, these people must, of course, return and help rebuild their homeland. I think there are a lot of people who want that where they have fled from. Unfortunately, we have a group which grows, which comes to Denmark and gets residence and protection. Denmark shows the confidence in them that they can be in Denmark, and then they abuse it. They've committed serious crime. It's not like they stole a bike. These are people who have committed murder and attempted murder. They have sold drugs, they have raped, they have created insecurity and otherwise committed crime. You have been to a Danish judge in a Danish courtroom. There they have been given a prison sentence and they have endured their prison sentence. It is quite correct, as was said by the Radicals, but they have also received a supplementary sentence, namely that they must leave Denmark. They have lost the basis for being in Denmark. They have lost the right to reside in Denmark. Then it is the case that some of them do not want to go home, some of them we cannot send home some of them we cannot send home because their home countries will not receive them, and some of them we cannot send home according to human rights, so they have the right to stay in Denmark. Do they have to move freely in Denmark? Of course they shouldn't. They need to be somewhere where we know where they are. And we've lifted the penalty if they don't comply with the rules, 15 times. Where they're going now is on Lindholm, an island down south Zealand, where we want to get them under control. There are approx. 2,8-3 km to land, some would say that there is shallow water and other things, and that is absolutely correct. And others can talk about ice winters, and we can hope they come back. But here we can do it that you can cross them off when they come on a ferry; you can cross them off when they come in, and you can cross them off when they go away. If you miss the ferry once, you get seven days' booklet, you miss the ferry repeatedly, you can get up to one year's minimum penalty. We are sure that after a short period on Lindholm there are some who will raise their hands and say: Dear Denmark, we want to leave Denmark now, because we can; we want to be taken to the airport. We pay the ticket, and of course you come home and help rebuild your homeland. In this way, of course, we hope that Lindholm will have a great value. It is therefore also surprising that we should now be hearing the Social Democrats say that we cannot relate to the island of Lindholm because we have not been part of the negotiations. The party's rapporteur on this matter, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, goes out and says it is spot on; this is what was proposed, the great social democracy, in 2000, and now it comes, here comes the island. The rapporteur now stands, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, up here, saying we can't deal with that. If something's spot on, I guess it's spot on. It's an island the state owns. The state owns the ferry. I can just say, it's spot on. So I hope that when we are about to vote this evening, the Social Democrats are concerned and, of course, voting for what they say to the public they think is ridiculous. That must be what you vote for. There's not much to talk about. Of course, the Finance Act is also about much else. One of the things that we are very pleased about is that the two-percent savings in vocational schools have disappeared. It's a deal that's made in a broad circle. We are pleased that we could use the financial law negotiations to push on so that we got that agreement through. Last year we got it through that we had it removed in the health care system. Now we get it removed on e.g. our vocational schools. It's an agreement that we really appreciate. We are also very pleased that we received increased provincial subsidies for our provincial gymnasiums, so that there will be 0.5 million. kr. to each of them. That is what is needed. The Danish People's Party wants us to have a wide range of training opportunities. We must have that throughout Denmark and, of course, also in the province. One of the other things that we were somewhat puzzled about when we entered into the financial law negotiations was that we practically discovered with horror that the government had not set aside money for border controls. We thought, what does that mean? Does this mean that the government, in its draft budget, is opposed to more border controls? We could hardly imagine that. But we had read correctly. The government had not set money aside for border controls, so it did not want border controls. I can then reassure the Danish people that this is, of course, under control. We have not had money set aside for half a year of border controls; we have of course set aside money for the whole of 2019, so that in the financial year 2019 border controls are available throughout the year. Of course, we are glad we got through that too. Another thing that has filled a lot, I think, for a great many Danes and also for the Danish People's Party, is, as has also been said earlier here today, that the wheels are in motion in Denmark, the employment rate is high, and things are going very fast out there. What about the working conditions out there? Is anyone starting to compete on the lowest common denominator? Yes, there is. Is it in every industry? Yes, unfortunately it is in many industries. Then how can we control it? We have, among other things. The Factory Inspectorate to do this, and we have a very good cooperation with, among others. The trade union movement. That is why I am also pleased that we managed to get money off, so that we have the same control pressure in 2019 that we had in 2018. It is both in relation to the Factory Inspectorate and to what we call arranged relationships. I am also very pleased that we had extra money set aside for what we call heavy duty vehicle control. What does that mean? It's about the case we've seen from Padborg, where you had some poor people driving a truck for 15 kroner. It's an hour. No one can compete against that. We must, of course, fight this with our beaks and claws so that we do not compete on the lowest common denominator. It can hardly be lower than what we unfortunately witnessed. There we are now being trained by a number of officers who are particularly sensitive and have special abilities to carry out those controls in the future. There is, of course, much more in the Finance Act that I would like to discuss, but now I can see from the President that my speaking time has passed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101252	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101255	First of all, just for the record, for Mr. René Christensen: The Social Democratic Party and the other parties invited to the Ministry of Finance are fully aware of the premise underlying the negotiations, but as I was also told from the platform, we have also found that it might actually look as if there could be some interplay problems, and that is why, as always, we would like to go in and improve where it is possible to improve, and as a rule, when the Social Democracy sits at a negotiating table where the Danish People's Party is represented, the results are usually better. But we've talked about that. I would actually just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the Danish People's Party is still behind the understanding that there is a broad conciliation circle behind the Train Fund DK, including the projects that are in Phase 1 of the Togfonden DK. In concrete terms, there is an amendment in Item 286320, Banedanmark, which concerns the Danish Railway Fund, to implement all the remaining projects under the agreement on the Train Fund DK, including the position of the Danish People's Party on the specific amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101411	Thank you. I can guarantee that Dansk Folkeparti is behind Togfonden DK's phase 1. It is the case that we have a broad agreement with, among other things. the red parties about it. We're on target for that. We think it is a very good agreement that we have made, and now we are in the process of coining. At the same time, we have also had a lot of negotiations with the government in recent years about the Train Fund DK and would really like the government to have joined the Train Fund DK, so everything would have been much easier. The government did not want this, and that is why we have told the government that we are entering the things that are needed in the financial year that applies to Phase 1 of the Togfonden DK and, of course, we are also on target for that. The amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party is an excellent amendment which says that it would like to have written in what comes in the financial years. We might think that was reasonable. It was much easier, so you didn't have to use political capital to discuss it. But now we have made another agreement with the government that we write them in year after year, and of course we are on target for this, but no one, either a politician or a citizen, who is waiting for the Togfonden DK's phase 1 to be rolled out, must doubt that this will happen, including with the votes of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101512	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101513	But Mr. René Christensen can see the widespread concern it can cause when it is not clear in the estimates what is going to happen with the roll-out of these projects. In any case, I hope that Mr. René Christensen will recognize that the best thing to do was to make it clear from the estimates that these projects will have to be carried out, also so that the construction authorities can adapt to it. To put it quite clearly: I find it rather problematic that the government is not involved in this, but I also think that the Danish People's Party could have fought harder for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101557	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101558	I can barely say it much better. I fully agree, and in the Danish People's Party it actually annoys us that the government has not joined the Train Fund DK's phase 1. It is in fact the case that the Train Fund DK's phase 1 has come through pressure from the former Minister of Finance because of the financing, and that is where we recognised, and we did so in a broad circle, also in the Togfonden DK, that there were some challenges in relation to phase 2. There could be some financial challenges, so everything would have been much easier. But I also believe that we can all reassure everyone that there are far, far more than 100 mandates for phase 1 of the Train Fund DK, and therefore, whatever happens, even if there is a choice, I am convinced that phase 1 of the Train Fund DK will last, even with more than 90 mandates after an election. So, yes, it would have been easier, but it hasn't been possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101647	Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101650	I'd like to send the rose back to mr. René Christensen for a quite excellent course, and I can confirm that contrary to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's view, which was not that it was not quick decisions, but it was difficult and long and serious discussions about all the various elements that are now included in such a financial law. But when you hear Mr. Benny Engelbrecht speaks about the area of foreigners and one has to understand that the Social Democratic Party has now turned 180 degrees and declares itself as a tighter party. René Christensen's ears? You can almost see that yellow is the new black, that is to say you vote yellow for all the concrete hard decisions. We are voting yellow in relation to the abolition of the integration benefit, and now we are voting yellow in relation to a specific proposal on an island of exit for rejected criminal asylum seekers. How does that sound to you, sir? René Christensen's ears? Does it agree with what is said by the Royal Danish Social Democratic Party that we want to tighten up on immigration policy? But when it becomes concrete and maybe difficult, you can't see your back for shoe soles, if you may say so. For then you vote yellow and disclaim any responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101756-2	There is no doubt that voting for the yellow button means that you have no position. That is to say, you do not dare to decide whether this is good or bad, and that is, of course, a challenge. That is also a greater challenge because you send your rapporteurs out into the public and say that this is a good decision. Only this morning I could see the Socialist rapporteur on television saying that the government spoke with two tongues. But the government is voting in favour of its own proposals. The government is voting for us to have a new third exit centre, of course. Why do we really need a third exit centre? That's because the number matters. Too many have arrived before 2001, and too many have entered the short period when we had a social democratic government. In the Finance Act I helped make in 2016, we budgeted 25,000 refugees/immigrants. In the Finance Act we have now made for 2019, we budget 4,000 immigrants. It matters what policy you have no doubt about it and this is the result of it. A third exit centre is not what we really want. We do not want there to be any exit centres. But we have to, because those people have come to Denmark at some point, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101907	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101909	Who's the judge, sir? René Christensen speaks the truth in relation to the social democracy line when it comes to the third exit centre on Lindholm? Is that sir? Mattias Tesfaye, who says, as Mr. René Christensen himself quoted that it is a proposal that is spot on, or is the rapporteur for the budget Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, who says: 'Well, we can't decide on that, can we vote yellow?' Who's the judge, sir? René Christensen we must listen to most if we are to have a sense of where social democracy is on this issue when we talk about wanting to tighten up our foreign policy? But when it becomes concrete and thus maybe difficult, you run all that, you strapping and clothes can hold, and you vote yellow.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219101948	It's just that parrots just talk, and it keeps talking. What we have to look at is what the legislature is doing. What kind of button are you pressing when we're in here? That's what's moving something. It is in here that the legislation is being implemented and if you press the yellow button, you mean nothing about the proposal. Then no position has been taken on it. You have not said yes or no; you are out of touch with it; you do not want to be part of the decision being made. That's what the yellow button means.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102016	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102019	Thank you very much. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for having stopped this gamble pool theft from the folk pensionists. It was important, and it was also good that it came from the Danish People's Party, which over the years has helped to grab about DKK 8,000. from every Danish folk pensionist. But at first reading, I asked Mr. René Christensen, whether the demands of the Danish People's Party also applied to the early retirementists, and I was given a very clear answer, namely a yes, because the early retirementists also had to be taken out of this theft. That is why I was very disappointed when I read the financial law agreement, and I think many early retirement pensioners have been, because the early retirementists are not allowed to keep up with the general development of prosperity in the future, as are the pensioners. On the contrary, the response we have received from the Ministry of Finance shows that the majority of early retirement pensioners will actually get less money paid out with the new regulation than with the current rules. Have not the Danish People's Party failed the early retirementists in these negotiations when that is the result?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102125	No, we certainly haven't. We are very pleased that we have now set up a pension scheme for early retirement workers. We must remember that many become early retirement workers during their lives, but there are also some early retirement workers who are born with a disability, and on the day of their 18th birth they are early retirement. After all, they do not have the opportunity to save up for their pensions. Now we are making it that early retirement also follows the wage trend, as is the case with the pensioners, but then it is absolutely right that we take the 0.3 per cent. at the top of the increase that will be. We're gonna put it in a pool with ATP, so they're gonna be allowed to keep their own money. I often talk to early retirement pensioners, who say that when I suddenly became a national pensionist, I experienced a fall in my income base, and it has been very difficult for me, because I have not had the opportunity to save up. Now you get a pension, even if you are an early retirement. You also get a pension if you are on unemployment benefit. You also get a pension when you're on cash benefits. This is a really, really good agreement, even for those who, for a short or long time, are outside the labour market and have thus also been unable to save up for their own pension. So, on the question, I would like to say that we are really happy about this. We certainly do not think that we have failed anyone, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102231	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102233	However, it is a fact that if the new regulation which is now being introduced had been in force in recent years, a single early retirement pensionist would have received more than DKr 4 000. less per year than with the existing rules. This pension fund thing is good, but there are two things to say about it. Firstly, there are a great many early retirement pensioners who do not reach retirement age. It's actually one in five. You won't have any pleasure in this deal. Secondly, there are a great many who do not benefit at all from the relaxation of the set-off. It is only about one in ten early retirement workers who benefit from it. So for the vast majority of early retirement workers, this agreement will mean that they will receive less in future than they would have received under the applicable rules. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102334	I can confirm that early retirement is now going to follow the wage developments that exist and all the money is going to be kept for yourself. But not the day you get them paid. It's 0.3%. • the increase that will come, which will be in favour of pension savings. I have heard the debate that has taken place that some early retirementists will not be able to retire. But I would like to say that I will certainly not sit in here and legislate on it, in other words put armbands on people and then say that we as a society do not believe that you will reach your retirement age, and therefore we choose to have a different benefit for you. It's higher because we expect you to die earlier, etc. etc. How on earth would we do that? We clearly believe that we have made a very good arrangement here. There is no erosion of the early retirement pension, and the top of the pill goes to the early retirementists themselves. I would like to say that there are also a great many early retirement pensioners who have experienced the cliff, namely that on the day they become a national pensionist they are experiencing the fall in terms of moving from one benefit to another, and they have not had the opportunity to make that savings. It is true that, when you look over the years, there will be some who see that their available amount can be changed a little, but it is not a available amount that has just gone to something else. It goes to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102441	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102445	Thank you. Every single second a person is sent somewhere in the world on the run because of climate change, and that issue doesn't get any smaller. In fact, there are conservative bids that we will have 250 million climate refugees by 2050. Climate change is simply the umbrella which will reinforce all other crises and which will mean that a great many people in the future will be on the run. It's affecting people right now, and this influence is going to accelerate. Today, Denmark supports the definition of refugees from the Geneva Convention in line with the UN and the EU. This does not include climate refugees, although the changing climate literally creates a deadly situation. We therefore already need international conventions for climate refugees. Is that something the rapporteur thinks we should look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102545	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102546	No, we do not want more people to be placed under it so that more people can come and seek asylum in the Western world. But we think we should do something for the climate, and all parties in here have also made a very ambitious energy agreement just before the summer break, where Denmark really takes the lead with the green flag and shows what can be done. We want to be a part of that. We would rather be involved in preventing more climate refugees from coming than starting to change the rules so that they say that the climate can then sail, and then you just have to come to the western world. We'll never be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102622	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102623	I am very pleased that the rapporteur mentions this summer's energy agreement, in which all parties are involved. It ended up with us, for example. I have to put up three offshore wind farms instead of one that the government had started with, but I would just like to mention that you ask science, and that is for example. It is also something that the Climate Council has highlighted, in fact, in the order of one offshore wind farm per year that we have to run in order to meet the climate responsibilities we actually have. Will the rapporteur's party work with the alternative and other parties after the election to tighten up this energy agreement and add more wind farms so that we get to a wind farm every year until 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102710	Now you have to be careful what you say from the parliamentary platform, but I almost think I can say very safely that this is not going to happen. If one could imagine having to make one more wind farm a year in Denmark, one would not be able to stand in a single place in Denmark and look out without it looking like a fence, i.e. a very, very sharp border around the whole of Denmark, and one would not be able to sail because of all the windmills that stood out in the water. That's not gonna happen. What I think is important is that when you talk about the climate, you actually have to take it seriously, and with Denmark's surface area we simply cannot cope with the climate challenge that is in the world, so that is where we have to take the knowledge and technology that we can contribute, and then the windmills have to stand elsewhere, because they should not all stand in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102755	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102757	I believe that we should not just measure what we say, but what we do. After all, we cannot always blame politicians for not getting things through, for which there is no majority. After all, other parties cannot be ruled out. But you can decide what you want, and when the Danish People's Party goes in and negotiates Finance Law, they get through what they think is important. That is why I would like to ask you about the priorities. Why has the Danish People's Party not chosen here in the Finance Act to do more for the elderly, but chose to spend 750 million. kr. On an island? They could have been applied to the elderly if it had been important for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102837	We have just spent that money on an island because we know that there will be pressure on public finances in the future. We're getting older, but we're spending 36 billion. kr. a year on non-Western immigration. If we do nothing about it, we cannot afford to finance what we want in the area of the elderly. So this is due diligence. We simply have to send a signal now. Those who come to Denmark get a stay and protection and, in addition, abuse the trust they have gained in committing serious crime is no longer welcome. They must leave Denmark. When you sit down with the smugglers and look at what kind of ticket to buy, it may be that Denmark is not as interesting. For we will therefore be hard hit if we do not comply with the rules that we expect of refugees and immigrants who come to Denmark. So this is actually about us wanting the 36 billion forward. kr. Down. If we can just lower it by 10%, we have 3.6 billion. kr. We can use this year in the area of the elderly, and that will actually be one of the moves that will be needed in the future. So this is also to fund the elderly area forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102935	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219102936	Criminal foreigners should not be in Denmark. But this isn't gonna solve anything. Dansk Folkeparti spends 750 million. kr. on an island, while then there will be empty buildings somewhere else. I feel like I'm happy to pay my taxes because I think welfare is important. But I get angry when the Danish People's Party is wasting our money in this way. That is why I would just like to ask again: what priority has been given by the Danish People's Party? Why didn't you choose to spend the 750 million? kr. to give more time to the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103011-2	Lotte Rod's party actually has a pretty big share in the fact that we're in this situation. Why is it we need a third exit center? It is not because Kærshovedgård closes and stands empty. This is because more and more foreigners are living in Denmark; because more and more foreigners are leaving Denmark. We are now going to have a large group of people who came in while there was a social-democratic-led government and also with the Radicals. That's what we're dealing with now. That is the challenge we face. That is why we need a third exit centre. This third exit center isn't a joke. That is because we also have a capacity problem, while at the same time getting more criminals. So this is merely an expression of the fact that a wrong policy has been pursued for a very short period of time, and we are paying the price for that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103054	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103057	Last year, DF demanded a guarantee that enough money was put off on the Finance Act for welfare. At that time, we could have a discussion about what is enough money for the demographic move to increase the number of older people and that we will have rising costs just to maintain the current level. Now we are again seeing a budget bill that does not deliver enough for public spending to keep up with the developments we are seeing. The Economic Statement, published on Monday, estimates that the growth in public consumption is 0.5%. Next year. All the experts are all aware of what they say: we know what the demographic trait is, we know that this is not enough to cover, not enough to ensure enough educators for our children, caregivers enough for our elderly, etc. Therefore, I have to ask DF if it is not the biggest bluff in the world when DF says to the population: We are your guarantee that there is proper welfare, even with a bourgeois government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103214	There's not enough for public spending. Well, just try to hear the word. What we need to discuss is how much money we spend. Why don't we discuss what we spend the money on? In fact, during the period when there was a Social Democratic government, including the SF, 10 billion were spent. kr. in integration per year. Now we're only spending 5 billion. kr. Hey, so we cut public spending, now we spend 5 billion. kr. We have now cut public spending. That's 5 billion. kr., The Danish People's Party is really happy to have been cut away. But that means that consumption has decreased. We need to talk about what we spend the money on, not talk about spending the money. But I am sorry to say this: this is typical SF rhetoric. It's all about spending the money, it's not about what you spend it on. We are pleased that we have reduced the cost of non-Western immigration. We're glad there'll be fewer. We are delighted that the municipalities now do not have to finance the reception classes of all these integration courses which have had to be financed within the framework. What you had to do when you were in power was cut in the ordinary field in order to finance the things you had been charged with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103322	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103324	It is such a relatively new thing that Mr. René Christensen like to attack that it also measures the increase in public consumption. It is not long ago that the Danish People's Party said: we want an increase of 0.8%. That is what we think it is necessary to do at the very least to ensure that the level of welfare we have is maintained at 0.8%. That was DF's objective. All of a sudden, it doesn't matter. But all right, let's take the premise that you save some money in the field of foreigners. That money hasn't gone 1:1 to welfare. Go and tell the educators who have signs that say they are alone with 15 children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103402	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103404	But that's what's interesting. It is interesting what we are discussing. And there we have to discuss such things as educators. There we are really happy with the financial bill when you look at the project that came from the government about the 1,000-day programme. We're really happy about that. We are very pleased that we are looking at early action. We're glad you're looking at education. We are glad that money is being set aside, among other things. a welfare area where you look at the children. We'd like to talk to the SF about that too. It's just talking about spending the money. It's kind of lame, I'm sorry, I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103433	Then it's mr. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103435	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. But I will just have to drill a little bit more in the answer given by the rapporteur to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht just now in relation to Phase 1 of the Togfonden DK because I am a little puzzled about it. Last year we were discussing the same thing a little bit, and it was said that this matter had fallen between two chairs, and therefore it had not come on. Now I understand that again this year there is nothing about the Train Fund DK compared to phase 1. So I would like a clear answer to the following: there is a majority of the rapporteur himself said so, but how can it be that the Danish People's Party, with the amendments tabled today by the Social Democratic Party, does not support the conciliation, the agreement that has been made with the rest of the Togfonden DK's conciliation parties, because then we would be able to implement phase 1 without any problems and not just with funding for one year at a time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103536	That's because it doesn't mean anything practical. So, I would also like to say to the questioner that if it were up to the Danish People's Party, it would be much easier if we put this into the Finance Act, because then it was in there, and so we should not talk about it any more, and then it drove out there. It has not succeeded in bringing the government to that end. I would also say that we have not put much effort into it, because in the practical world that does not mean much. The agreement we have made with the government is that if money is to be spent on the Togfonden DK's phase 1, they must of course be written into the Finance Act the year in which they are to be implemented. So if money is to be translated in 2019, it is also written into 2019, 2020, 2022 and so on. It's kind of tedious to do it that way, I fully acknowledge that, but we do. And everyone, both politicians and citizens who are out there and those who use the railroad, can be absolutely sure of the Train Fund DK's phase 1 being implemented. I do not even think that an election can do anything about it, because there are so many mandates behind the decision... and the Danish People's Party is pleased with the Togfonden DK's phase 1. But the government did not want to accede to the settlement, and then we have to do it the way we do it now. So that's the answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103639	Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103640	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not find it rather strange that the rapporteur says that there is a majority; there is also funding, we know that. And now I know that the rapporteur is also rooted in local politics, and there it would be quite unusual in relation to an investment in capital that only one year's money was dropped at a time. Well, I guess if you're gonna expect things to happen, you're gonna have to set aside the amount that's gonna have to be spent on this investment. So I can understand if there are a lot of citizens in the country who are actually a little bit nervous about whether this is going to happen or not going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103717	Well, I can only confirm that we think it's just as crazy. Yeah, I'm sorry, it's gonna be like that. In other words, we agree with the Social Democratic Party that the government does not just accept that there are over 100 mandates behind the Train Fund DK and write it into the Finance Act. The government did not want that, and we did not want to use much political capital to write in something that in practice does not matter. So I would like to confirm that the Train Fund DK's phase 1 is firmly established.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103742	Then it's mr. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103745	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. My question is, in all its simplicity, whether the rapporteur believes that more or less staff are needed in our health services.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103800-2	In any case, there is a need to look at, among other things. Something like sick absence. I think there is a need for more people to be there, and that is why we also need to look at what kind of work we have and how we handle it. We can, among other things. See in the care of the elderly that there is a high sickness absence, and that a lot of people do not work full-time. In fact, there are a lot of nurses who don't do it and what is the reason for it? So I actually think there are several ways to work. But there is a lot of pressure out there, including in health care, but there are generally many places, both in the private sector and indeed in the public sector. So to answer the question: yes, there is a need for more hands, but there may also be a need for more of the hands that are there also to be there more and that there is also a better working environment in state, municipal and regional workplaces, so that you are not so high in terms of sickness absence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103849	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103850	It becomes a bit of an ending, because one of the reasons why many people are not present is that there is a great pressure of work, that there is stress and that there is wear and tear, etc., so that sick leave increases. I just find it worrying that, in the financial negotiations that have been concluded, it has not been possible to highlight the fact that there have been fewer nurses in our health services, that there have been 400 fewer employees in the overall health care sector in the last quarter alone, and that we are in a situation where waiting times for, for example. cancer treatment is increasing and there is overcrowding in the medical departments, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219103931	Firstly, there will be a health reform to which money has been set aside and which we will have to discuss when we come back after New Year's and there it will be a part of it. There are a number of people who would like to go into nursing education, but there are actually a number of people who are not able to get in even though they are qualified, and there we have among others. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of medicinal products for human use. There are also, among other things, because the municipalities have begun to demand a great many nurses, and it does, of course, that when they are in the municipalities, they are not in the hospitals. That is why it is a professional group that is lacking, so we have to train some more, because there is simply a lack of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104009	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104010	The rate pool has been abolished, and that is a good thing, but the adjustment of transfer income, which is now replacing it, is actually worse than the one that was with the old rate-pooling regulation, understood in the sense that if the regulation that will apply in the future had been in force from 2005 until today, the monthly benefit for a wide range of transfer income would be significantly lower today than it actually is. If the new regulation had been in force from 2005 onwards, an early retirement worker would have had DKK 4,200. less a year before tax, a person on unemployment benefit had had DKK 3,600. less a year before tax, and a person on cash benefits, who is a breadwinner, had had DKK 3,200. less a year before tax. Is this a very good deal? Is this an agreement of which the Danish People's Party is proud? These are some groups, such as the Danish People's Party. has been out to say they will defend in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104120	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104121	Yeah, the numbers are right. Yeah, we're on target for that. In the past, the figures that were said here went to the bet pool; they went away from these groups, they went out of their league, they disappeared into another pool to something else good. What is happening now is that they are being put into their own account where the ATP interest them, and on the day they become pensioners they are being paid back. It's just an amazing deal that's made. Even if you are outside the labour market for a shorter or longer period, you must, of course, have the opportunity to pay your pension, so that you can also have a good elderly life, even if you may not have been fully or partially linked to the labour market of your working age. I can't understand if somebody thinks it's a bad deal. It's a win-win deal, and now the money goes to themselves... they don't go to other purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104210	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104211	Well, if we are based on an early retirementist, that means that he would have had for the monthly consumption to pay rent, to pay food • DKK 4,200. less a year before tax, if the adjustment to be applied in the future had been applicable for 2005 onwards. If we start from 2005 to 2018, it is also true that in 6 of those years, you would actually get less together, including pension savings, because there is a set-off at a time when you retire, for example. in an old-age or old-age pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104252	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104253	Well, we've addressed that in the deal we've made. Because that is where we have changed the set-off rules. It is now the case that we have changed the set-off rules by DKK 15,000. On both old people's cheques and supplementary pensions, and this is precisely what these groups are getting something out of it. And there is no doubt that it is also good to have an opportunity to save up for your own pension, even if you are on cash benefits, early retirement or unemployment benefit for a longer period. This is really good for the individual. Why is it that every time the trade union movement makes agreements, the trade union movement struggles to make payments from the employer to a pension? It's, of course, because it's good. Now the state is doing it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104328	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104329	Thank you very much. The rapporteur does not mention health care in his rapporteur's speech. Sir. Peter Skaarup has previously stated to Altinget that health care has not been a priority for the Danish People's Party in our financial law negotiations, so that the rapporteur does not mention it now may be related to it. But I am just thinking: is the Danish People's Party fully aware that the overcrowding in hospitals is increasingly marked by the hospitalization of elderly medical patients? Is the Danish People's Party not aware in its everyday life that the staff are running so fast that many say that they cannot run stronger and that it is damaging to patient safety? I would say that in my everyday work as a health rapporteur, this is something of the common understanding we actually have with the Danish People's Party, which is why I am so surprised that this fight has not been taken in the course of this year's financial law negotiations. That is why my question to the rapporteur is: Can the Danish People's Party guarantee that the Danish People's Party will ensure a supply of resources in the future that is proportional to the increasing number of elderly people and more patients we receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104440	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104441	In any case, I can say that there are no easy solutions to the challenges facing health care. We have had some of them, including the recruitment of doctors in the province and others, and that is why we are glad that money has been set aside for us to start health reform now when we come in January. And that is where we hope that it can be a health reform that can be achieved in a broad-based way. We have some challenges, but we certainly also have some opportunities, in relation to our health care. And there I would say: a financial law can do a great deal. However, in the context of making a financial law on something that is so professionally heavy, we think it is quite all right to go out and see if a broad agreement can be reached with those parties that do not participate in the financial law negotiations and that money is set aside and negotiations are called for when we come back after New Year. That is the right way to do it, and then we also take the challenges that are there seriously. But we also see that there are opportunities and resources have been allocated.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104531	Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104532	As a Social Democrat, I just need to know what opportunities the Danish People's Party sees, for example in relation to the great lack of practitioners, as the rapporteur also says here. Far, far more than 100,000 Danes do not have a regular practitioner, but are referred to a regional clinic or a supply clinic. The Danish People's Party, together with the government, has not come up with concrete, short-term solutions to this huge problem, and I think that this is an opportunity for the Danes, the patients and the old citizens of Denmark to find out what the government and the Danish People's Party want on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104612	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104613	We want to make a lasting solution there too, and we also want to make it broad in the Folketing, so that we can be sure that if an agreement has been reached, it is a new agreement we have made, about health care, how it should look forward and how we can solve the challenges that exist. I fully acknowledge that. I myself come from the province, and I know the challenges that exist, including with practitioners, in other words general practice, and we must solve them together. But there are no quick solutions to that. You can make some bus arrangements, you can do other things, there has been a lot of effort out there, but that is not the right way to do it either. And there we say: now we have dropped resources, now we want to have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104650	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104652	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille proudly emphasised that, depending on temperament, some might say tauntingly that this Financial Act for 2019 is the Finance Act that has been in use since 2006 at least So, there hasn't been such a scrape of a Finance Act on public spending since 2006. On this occasion, I would like to ask the Danish People's Party whether it is considered by the Danish People's Party that it has been able enough in the financial law negotiations to hold hands under welfare in a situation where we know that the demographic trait means that the cost of welfare will also increase in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104740	Yeah, we're really proud of the finance bill we made. And that's again this: Where does the money come from, and how do you measure it? The 1.3 billion. kr. kr. In fact, we think that the 1.3 billion. kr. is well-being. We've done it because we wanted to. We did not think it was right for the pensioners to see their pensions eroded from the 1990s. It should stop now. We've done that with the bet pool. We are pleased that others have joined it. We would also give them a boost, and we have done so by spending 1.3 billion. kr. It is so true that it is some money that comes from somewhere else and they do not count. However, we think that the 1.3 billion. kr. provide welfare, they provide quality of life, also for the elderly, who are on a retirement pension. So we are really proud of our financial law, even when you look at the figures, even when you look at them overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104831	Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104831-2	I take nothing from the rapporteur in relation to that part of the task. The challenge is just at the same time that the reality is in many places out there in municipalities, in hospitals, in day care establishments etc. is that savings are constantly being made, because growth in public consumption does not follow demographic trends. Does the rapporteur not think that there is some very, very great challenge here, and that the current Financial Act for 2019 does not address the challenge that healthcare staff in hospitals have to run stronger and stronger to carry out more and more tasks, that educators have more children to look after, while there are fewer educators to solve the tasks, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104916	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104916-2	I recognise that we have some challenges in the field of health, but we also believe that we have some opportunities, and that is where we have set the money off to start negotiations after January, as I said earlier. So we have pushed that part of health in front of us, you might say. With regard to the second part of the close welfare, I just have to repeat myself: part of the challenge there is no challenge at all. It is simply because there is less pressure. That is, when you go from spending 10 billion. kr. A year on integration, we now spend 5 billion. kr., well then there's just a need for 5 billion. kr. less, and that means that there is a need for a smaller boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104951	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219104952	I have great respect for both the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party's wish to give priority to border controls. It is a priority that will go beyond the police resources.That is the way it must be and that is why I am also interested in hearing what the Danish People's Party has set up for success criteria. Well, what are those parameters, what are those KPIs you're working for? When is it a success to have border controls measured in relation to the investment it is also?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105018	Well, it is a success that we have a border control, and now we have a border control which is there permanently in 2019. We're really happy about that. We are also pleased that we have had the reverse border controls, that is to say that we are also carrying out border controls, and that is also because we want to use the equipment we have set up. In previous finance laws we have also received money for license plate scanners and other things, and now you can see when an East European van enters and it keeps driving across the border one way. Then you could just stop it when it goes out and say, "Where's the receipt for those 17 boat engines in the back?" They may have picked them up in a nearby boat rental. That is what we think is the success, that is, that we control the borders of our country. We are a sovereign state and, of course, we have the right to control our borders. We can do that with the money we have set aside, and that is the success.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105101	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105103	The underlying question from me is of course: When is it worth the value compared to the investment? In other words, do you also look at the figures in relation to how many resources are spent on solving one challenge in one situation with someone you have stopped at the border, or is it the political ambition that trumps the figures? Because I would say that when I look at the figures, it seems that many resources are being spent on solving one challenge at the border, where I think there are many of us who think that those hours could also have been spent elsewhere in the country. But if it is a political ambition and it is less important what resources are being used for quite concretely, then it is also understandable. But is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105146-2	Well, we'd like to have border controls. We have border controls, and we are pleased about that. There are permanent border controls in Denmark today, they stand down there every day, and that is what the Danes are experiencing. We appreciate that. So it should also be remembered that we could have another debate here today, which was about the fact that there are too many drugs in Denmark. Why are so many young people taking drugs? It's being sold right outside our schools. How does it get in? It's crossing the border. It is a very good thing that we have people at the border also to carry out the customs controls that exist and the police controls that must be of all the things that come across the border. So, yes, this is about border controls, but indeed they have to carry out some checks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105218	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105219	Thank you for that and also thank you for the rapporteur's speech. As several people have already mentioned, the Danish People's Party has not chosen to give priority to demographic development, which means that more and more money must be spent in order to actually meet the expectations of citizens for care and health. And nothing has been done about the retirement age, it is still gone really, really high. Wearing is a really big challenge. It is in hospitals, it is in the care of the elderly, it is in manufacturing companies, and it is among the craftsmen. I simply cannot understand why the Danish People's Party has not given priority to this problem. Does the Danish People's Party simply not think that the wear and tear is such a big problem that one should actually have chosen to do something about it in this Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105312	In relation to working conditions, we have at least chosen to put money on, among other things. to the Danish Labour Inspectorate, so we have the same level in 2019 that we had in 2018. We have also written in that we have committed the government to call for negotiations with all the parties of the Folketing, where we have to look at how we ensure that we have a level of control that is in order, both when we have a boom and when we have a recession. That's one part of it. Then there is health, and there is no doubt in terms of wear and stress that it is both physical and mental wear and tear that we experience in public institutions. We simply have to address that, and of course we also have to address that when we look at health reform. We are in complete agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105346	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105347	15 million have been set aside. kr. to the Labour Inspectorate. It is simply to postpone the saving that awaits the Factory Inspectorate anyway, so it is not a solution. It is a solution for next year that we should not at least save, but it is not a solution for the long run. Doesn't the Danish People's Party think that exactly more muscles for the Danish Labour Inspectorate could be the tool that was needed to actually solve the problem of very great wear and stress in these jobs? Why is this not a priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105420-2	I don't think the Factory Inspectorate alone can solve the problem of wear and tear. It is, after all, more work processes and what you have to work with. I believe that what is important is that we look at what organisation we have, also in relation to the many decisions we politicians make. You really have to be adaptable when you are in the public domain, and that is one of the challenges that may be. I would then like to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that I also think it is a challenge that we have so many links, so that we have both state, region and municipality, also when it comes to health. We will certainly take that discussion with us when we meet again in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105456	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. Time's up, and we're moving on to mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219105504	Thank you. We have a very good starting point in Denmark. We have a record in employment; since the elections there have been 150,000 jobs well and good. We have the lowest unemployment rate for over 10 years. We have an ever-better business environment with lower taxes and taxes, which are, of course, the whole prerequisite for making profits for our common welfare. We have recently again received a so-called triple a-rating of our economy, so we are at the top when looking at the external economy. Denmark is not a perfect country, but we are one of the best in the world. The Finance Act we are going to deal with here is the entire Danish Finance Act, both in terms of population and geographical terms. The Finance Act is not only for those with a boat in the Harbour of Skovshoved, but it is also for them, unlike at the end, when the Social Democrats sat in government, where top tax and corporation tax were significantly reduced financed by reductions in the benefits of early retirement and cash benefits recipients. And that was when the director could laugh all the way down to the bank to be able to raise more than $20,000 a year. in tax relief, but where the cash benefit recipient and the early retirement and the municipalities could look far after the promised funds. And where inequality in Denmark exploded under the S-ministers, including the current S-President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as a leading figure. It is also not only a Finance Act for Copenhagen, but also for Copenhagen, and it is also in contrast to earlier where S sat in government, where a rural minister was appointed, which was documentably more of name than of benefit. There, government jobs and education were moved to Copenhagen. We move them out into the province, and we create a Denmark in better balance with an increase in employment in all 98 municipalities. The Finance Act is not capable of figures and economics. It is not just a question of what groups of people should be accommodated. It is also a question of addressing other issues such as public security, the fight against crime, foreigners, the environment and climate, etc. But a good economy is a good starting point for prioritising and also for reprioritising. And it is no coincidence that Denmark is being judged to be at the top, because probably the world economy is improving and has been so for some years, but a number of political decisions have also been taken here in the room, both in the labour market and in the tax area as well as in education, energy, business package and much more, which is part of the reason. That is why we can give priority to this year's financial law, among other things. the elderly's economy, which will have a significant boost, health and psychiatry, as well as the soon-to-be approach to health reform. Rural areas where islands have better conditions, commuting allowances, an Kattegat connection is under investigation, small colleges in rural areas, culture, lower agricultural charges, reduced charges for border trade, training, etc. in region Sjælland and elsewhere and a village pool etc. There will be a continuing austerity policy against those who cannot and will not, but yes to those who can and will. The environment and climate will again get a boost here too, both on the short track, but also with a long purpose with a vision to expand Denmark's leading position on the green transition. The social area will have a more permanent solution than in the field of the pool of rates so far. Infrastructure is mentioned, but addressed after New Year, and much more. This comes on top of the budgets of the regions and municipalities, which have been increased by the agreements that have been made and increased funding is then added to the Finance Act. In the case of the municipalities, they have been lifted by 21⁄2 billion. kr. Since 2015, and this is also in contrast to the previous government, which cut the municipalities' economy by 31⁄2 billion. kr. But cut into opportunities to make citizen-close welfare. On the other hand, as you know, the top tax and corporation tax were lowered, while the SF sat in government with the Social Democracy and Radicals and supported by Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) just so it is said. But we don't want to be measured by how much money we can spend. We will be measured by the results that come with it. And that is why the Minister of Innovation is among other things. also working hard to debureaucratise our public sector and focus on increased productivity. Because it's about what we get out of the money, not how much money we spend. We want to steer the economy within a balanced framework so that the recovery can last and not burn off too quickly. As you know, some people think that we are spending too little money. There are others who believe that we are spending too much money. I'm saying that we're comfortable with the options that are available. The Finance Act must also be adopted in a situation where there is a marked difference in climate, including the political climate between the blocs. As you know, the red block is made up of five parties, which will create a majority, at least some believe that a majority can be created behind Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister. Three of the five party leaders, however, will themselves be prime minister. The remaining two parties, the SF and the Radicals, criticise the Social Democracy for not having anything as fundamental as an overall economic plan. So I am not saying that I am simply referring to the SF and the Radicals. And another party, the alternative, will not even point to Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister. And that is the foundation on which we should build a new management of Denmark if necessary, a foundation that will require a lot of piloting if it is to have the chance to just stand somewhat firm and not sink into the quicksand. I am, of course, well aware that when a parliamentary election approaches, no means are being shunned. They are, however, well spent, and the promises lie around us: more money for health, that is, even more than the government had brought in, no matter what we had brought in, it was not enough; more money for the municipalities; more money for the wealthy capitalists; 1,000 more nurses, even if you had to admit that they do not exist; tax on investment and capital; more for culture; more for Danish Radio; more for children; more for education; more for life; more of it all. The good against evil, one must understand. And, by the way, yellow to all the hard stuff when you have to vote on the concrete. And, yes, the funding is simply too boring to talk about, and that is why there is no economic plan according to the SF and the Radicals, because the people obviously do not understand what the Social Democrats mean anyway. That's clearly the rationale. Promise of the promise of Social Democracy, which sounds popular. However, when a government basis is then to be negotiated with parties which, to put it mildly, have very little in common and which also pose with their own prime minister candidates, we know what is happening, as it did last time: you came out of a black tower with something quite different from what you had gone in with. You promise one direction, but you come out with the exact opposite, by the way, the good solution will come tomorrow in 12 minutes. So why should we believe it this time? It's fake news like the last time you broke 100 promises just in the first 100 days you sat in government. And it is possible that you want to be Prime Minister of children, but there you must not just play and spin and tactics and obscene claims like smokescreen for your own past; it is a responsibility that needs to be taken and there it doesn't help anything just to vote yellow. Blue Block has just delivered a comprehensive financial law with massive investment in the core welfare of the elderly, children and health; with improvements for business that provide a breeding ground for future jobs and income for our common welfare; with mastery of foreign policy and with efforts that increase the security of the population; with environmental and climate action that extends far into the future with both realism and visions that have not previously been seen in Danish politics. I would therefore also like to take this opportunity to thank the Danish People's Party and, above all, Mr. René Christensen and Mr. Peter Skaarup as the main negotiators in the Finance Law negotiations. Because we may not agree on everything, so far, but the negotiations I would like to reveal here; I don't know if I can, but now I do it anyway. In fact, in a very fine, confidential and serious tone, the many hours and days in spite. This is good for future agreements, for example. The announcement of the reform of health and infrastructure, which is one of the things we have addressed and to which we will return first in the new year. I would also like, perhaps a little unconventional here, to congratulate the official work of the Ministry of Finance. They are often accused of having too much influence, and they cannot answer back, but I have the deepest respect for them, from the youngest deputy to the Secretary-General and the Head of Department, who knows what this is about and who works the sun black. We have a good starting point: record in employment, lowest unemployment for over 10 years. Yes, Denmark is not a perfect country, but it is one of the best that exists in the world. And the 2019 Finance Act will take Denmark a step further in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110404	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There are a number of brief comments, and I would like to ask those who know at this stage that they would like to have the floor for a brief comment to press so that we can get it controlled from up here. The first to a brief remark is Mr. Nick Hækkerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110424	Thank you for your comments, which, first of all, it has to be said, were an attack on Social Democracy. I could be tempted to offer an agreement to the rapporteur: if the rapporteur stops lying about the policy of social democracy, I will not tell the truth about the policy of the Left. However, one of the points raised by the rapporteur was the question of the future health reform, and this raises the question of the closure of the five regional councils, which are supposedly part of the health reform that will be presented. The question that falls to me is whether the very prominent Mayor of the Left, Lars Krarup, is right when he says that the removal of the political level in the regions can easily end up in centralisation and that decisions go further than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110519	Well, I am not going to anticipate the course of events in relation to the plan that the government is going to present in the new year. But I can say so much that the starting point that we have from the Left and that I have is that we put the human being before the system, the patient before the system. And this means that we must start from the patient, in the overall patient cycle, in the overall effort that must be made, and we must avoid that there are boxes that are budgets that are frameworks that make it impossible to create a single unit in the overall course based on the patient. And then the structural discussion must be followed by everything else. So if we can do a programme with a concerted effort, what is happening today in the regional system, i.e. in the hospital, and what is then typically going on in the municipal with rehabilitation etc., much more flexible and throughout with the patient in the centre, I will support it at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110616	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110619	It is also fair that the rapporteur will not anticipate the course of events. However, there are only other people who have done soren Gade, as I said, Lars Krarup, Carl Holst, Sophie Løhde, Carsten Kissmeyer and others who have done, and where you sense a nervousness about the connection between exactly the structures you do and the patient treatment that is going to happen. And it has to be said that some of the reforms that have been rolled out over the last few years have been local government reform, judicial reform, police reform, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110709	Well, I understand the concern, but I think you just have to start with what you want to deliver. What do we want as a result? As a result, I would like to see health care given as close as possible, but no more closely than quality, if that is the case, goes the whistle. I think, sir. Bertel Haarder once said it: If it is not difficult, it must be close. In return, if it is difficult, it must be in the specialised hospitals. And that is the structure that we are trying to build up and have built up with special hospitals, with emergency hospitals, and that is the thinking that is now being built on in a project where there must be a focus on the close health effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110750	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110753	Thank you. Thank you for your speech and also thank you for the good cooperation that there was in the process. I would like to jump to something quite different that I would like to hear from the rapporteur. Denmark was once an agricultural country. We're not anymore. Nevertheless, we still have a great many farms, and it is the case, when you look at the budget law, that some minor things have also been included in relation to agriculture. Among other things: We have focused on the generational shift, which is so important in order to maintain the leading position that we have in Danish agriculture. There we have a ten per cent salesman's letter scheme, which we in the Danish People's Party hope will help us to speed up these generational shifts. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur how the Left feels about the fact that we expect to see more generational shifts and how this pawn letter system will affect what we see out there in farming circles.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110852	I think this is a right and targeted approach in an industry that is important, a huge export industry which has jobs which are at risk for all kinds of reasons. We have been through a drought that has not been seen before. So I think it is quite appropriate that we go in and find some targeted efforts in this case, as Mr. René Christensen refers to, because we can also see that there is a generational challenge in particular in agriculture, where it is before that older generations must dismantle their farms and young generations must take over. If you choose to say that and we do so that there must be an opportunity for you to come in and take over as a young farmer and thus drive it forward with the new, modern methods you are still developing, then it must also be possible financially. And what is referred to here is a small step in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110943	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219110946	Another thing that the Danish People's Party is happy that the Left has also been involved in is that we are now among others. I'm gonna make sure we get these animal protection units in Denmark. We get three animal protection units that can travel around Denmark. That's one of them. some police officers who are part of the police force but who receive special training in relation to animal welfare. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that it will be a wide range of tasks for this group of officers, in other words that it will be both in relation to animal transport and in relation to the private sector if there are notifications in relation to animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111022	I can confirm that it does. I would say that what is now in the Finance Act is also a step out of many steps, which I also know the Minister for the Environment and Food was out to announce only yesterday in relation to increased animal welfare and thus also the protection of the welfare of animals. Because it is both about the animals and that is the most important thing, but it is also about the agriculture that feeds on exporting quality food. And there I think it is really good to get rid of the stingy vessels, as there is in that industry, by saying that this is not going to work, and thus to get a greater control pressure where it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111057	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111103	The rapporteur mentioned that the environment and climate are being boosted. According to the Energy Agreement, we will achieve CO2 tonnes by 2030, the effort will have an effect and it costs approx. 2 billion kr. per years for 5 years. It will be visible on the curves, but it is far from enough to reach the goal of 11⁄2 degree. Then we have the government's election plan, climate and warm air, and there are some very small climate effects. They are so minimal that the Climate Council came to the conclusion that the overall effort is only 25%. of what you've been doing for the last 10 years. It is against this background that we are going to look at what has then been put into this financial agreement, and so there is only approx. 120 million kr. Annually in Denmark in the Finance Act for an additional climate action. That is far from enough. I really think that there is a lack of long-term priorities, and I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the shortcomings of the Left on behalf of climate and future generations. Does the rapporteur agree with me that it is not a green Finance Act but a coal-black Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111213	Now I could surprise and agree with the questioner. I also admit that the title of hot air in a political game can be a little funny. But having said that, I really do not think that this government can be blamed for it. On the contrary, we have set one of the highest climate targets that we have accepted in the European Union up to 2030, we get 100 per cent. Green electricity by 2030, we have an ambition that we have a climate-neutral society by 2050, and we are at the forefront of the green transition, of green technology. Normally we say that small Denmark cannot solve the world's climate problems, but yes, we can actually understand that if all the countries of the world used Danish climate technology, we would at least have come very, very far along the way. So if we can do more to get some of the climate equipment, technology and opportunities that we are developing in Denmark, then we have come a long way compared to those ambitions. However, I would like to emphasise once again that the Danish Government has taken on some of the greatest climate ambitions in the EU, some of the greatest ambitions ever undertaken by any Danish government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111317	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111320	Thank you. You can talk yourself up to more than you are, and then you just have to say that the Chairman of the Climate Council was fired after criticism of the government's lack of climate action, and now all we need is for the people to fire the government in the parliamentary elections. There will therefore not be a million electric cars of its own, and that is what the Prime Minister was out to oversell as an overbid policy in the Parliamentary Chamber at the opening of the parliament, and it has then been possible to see that 1,000 electric cars were negotiated. There is, of course, a potential to export systems that could really handle more electric cars, and then, as the rapporteur says, what would be a good solution, but that does not come about by making agreements where there are only 1,000 electric cars instead of one million. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111401	I agree that this does not come about by itself, and that is why we are just making some concrete steps in relation to how the tax structure will look in the years to come, but it is in the short run. Nor will it come of itself unless there is a government that dares to take the lead and set some ambitions, and we must also, by the way, make an energy agreement with all parties in the Folketing, which also draws the tracks in that direction. In addition, we have also announced that we will be working intensively with an expert panel, a commission to tell us what tools we need to get out of the toolbox. I just have to remind you that what we are getting into car taxes today is over 50 billion. kr., and the billions of dollars would be missing in the common welfare fund if we just shut down and turned off from day one.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111440	Then it's mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111444	Thank you. In the alternative, both when the Finance Bill came here in the autumn, and also when the agreement was made here with the Danish People's Party, we asked about the climate effects of the Finance Act. This morning I received a reply from the Minister for Finance, who among other things. wrote that it is not possible to compile an inventory or inventory of the derived effects of the Finance Act on greenhouse gas emissions. Quite frankly, I do not understand why, in the midst of a galloping climate crisis, when we know that we only have a very short time to reverse developments, we cannot present a green accounting for the Finance Act. In fact, it seems absurd that we can even stand here and negotiate a financial law when we do not have the insight into what the financial legislation initiatives have to do with climate impact. That is why, in the alternative, we have tabled a motion for a resolution calling for initiatives to be taken so that, at the same time as the draft budget is presented and subsequently a green budget is presented. What does the government think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111548	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111552	I think that as long as we have the right direction on what we are doing and that is what I was trying to sketch out in my answer earlier on both with the energy agreement, of which the alternative is also part, but also with the many, many other actions both on the short track, but also with the visions that have been put forward on the longer track, I am quite happy about it, because that is what this is all about. It is about the fact that as long as we as a country, as a Danish nation with the opportunities that we already have, but also with the economy that provides income for Danish society in the form of exports, go in that direction and make the opportunities ever better, I am quite comfortable with it and secure about it. Because, as I said before, Denmark can actually help solve large parts of the world's climate problems, if it feels that the world will help use Danish technology and Danish opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111636	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111639	Yeah, but it's only gonna be a few points of impact when you do it that way. In fact, the OECD has a work in progress which Denmark has chosen not to participate in, but where it is precisely working to create this type of overview. Would the rapporteur not think that it was appropriate to work systematically to create this overview for each and every budget law so that we can see where it is going and where it goes down with every proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111712	I always think it's good that you can see where it goes up and where it goes down, but I think that the most important thing in terms of climate is • and that's what I was trying to say before • that it's not something you're going to solve tomorrow with a fingertips. I think so too, sir. Christian Poll agrees with me. That is why it is about what direction we are setting, what ambitions we are setting and what actions we are behind to achieve that ambition. That is why I am trying to outline both our vision in the long run for a climate-neutral society by 2050, where we agreed with the Energy Agreement that we will get 100 per cent by 2030. Green electricity, and that we are starting with some of these agreements already on the short track in relation to charging structures, in relation to electric cars, etc. That is the direction in which we are concerned, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111747	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111751	Last Monday the Economics Review came and it was read that since 2013 86,000 foreigners have been employed in Denmark, including 30,000 non-western immigrants. In other words, it is a very large financial contribution, among other things. to this Finance Act. There I find it rather strange that the government has agreed to the so-called paradigm shifts of the Danish People's Party, which means that even refugees who are in work will be expelled. Left said: Denmark for those who can and will. And now the Left is taking part in a budget law where people who are in work and who contribute will be expelled. I find that hard to understand. Can the rapporteur of the Left try to explain why the Left has agreed to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111854	It's about, sir. Andreas Steenberg, that number matters. It is about the fact that we are now going in with the financial law we are putting forward and saying that we would like to have a temporary nature with regard to the refugees who come here. We must protect the people who come here within the conventions that we have signed and thus also provide them with the protection they need. But it must also be the case that the day when it is possible for them to return to their country of origin, they do so too. I think it would be indecent, I would almost say, to keep them, because the countries from which they come so much need those people to help rebuild them, i.e. those countries which have been devastated by war and destruction for decades, in some cases. So keeping these people here and saying that they should be here, I think it is kind of unethical in relation to the countries from which they actually come and where there is a strong need for their labour. But we can offer them some opportunities we can build them, qualify them and thus make them better able to rebuild their country on the day it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111955	Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219111957	That view simply means that there will be less money for welfare, that is, when you want to throw out people who are at work. The rapporteur says that it would be ethically correct to send people back to, for example. Syria. Then I would like to try to ask the Left rapporteur whether the Left thinks that the way in which Syria's dictator, Bashar al-Assad, treats his people is ethical and logical, that people should go back and rebuild that regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112032	I am aware that we are not sending anyone back to Syria in the situation we are in, precisely because the insecurity, insecurity and repression are taking place under the conditions set out in Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg correctly describes. And that is just like my point: that we must then make protection important, that is, that it is serious and comprehensive in Denmark when the protection needs are there. But on the day when it is no longer present in Syria, for example, when we all hope that one day there will be peace, we have made these people ready and better able to go home and create a better society in the countries from which they come. That is the point of our temporary nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112108	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112111	Thank you. I would like to return to the government's climate action or lack of it. There has just been a summit in Poland. There was a time when leaders from all over the world at such summits looked to Denmark. We were some people you could look up to in relation to the steps we took. That time is just over. We have a Climate Council that has said: it is urgent that you hurry. And the government says it's okay. And then you get rid of the chairman of the Climate Council in the same rebirth after criticism. The rapporteur says that the government has a lot of policy in the green area, in the climate area, but what we are just asking is where that policy is. It is, of course, the most free round in the world for the Prime Minister to stand on the platform and promise one million electric cars when you do not then present a policy to lead us to that goal. The government does not want to do anything about agriculture, it does not want to do anything about passenger transport. Where's the government putting in?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112223	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112229	I simply do not understand SF's urge to speak Denmark's leading position on the green area into a black hole. I don't understand. Because we have a unique opportunity to be able, if you may say so, not to save the world's climate, but to achieve a very good step on the road by being able to export, by just being able to speak positively, by precisely being able to show what we can do in Denmark; what we have been able to do and what we are also going to do in the future. I think we should use our joint efforts to do this, if we want to feel Danish welfare, because this gives jobs and revenues in the billions. But it also gives better climate around, because a CO2 I think we should use our powers on that. And then I would just like to say, in parentheses, that the chairman of the Climate Council has not been fired and that we have not got rid of him. His period expired. That was the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112309	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112312	It is true that Denmark has some very talented companies that can help solve some of the world's problems. With the very same managers shouting again and again to the government and saying that we need some ambition; it is good for us, it is good for our companies, it is good for Denmark's green profile, if you also have a government that puts action behind all the fine words. That is the call we hear again and again from the top of the business world, especially from the part dealing with green technologies. We just don't see anything from the government there. That is why I would like to ask again where the government's policy will get us in line with the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112355	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112359	Well, I'm gonna sign up and say that SF is a part of the process. the greenest energy deal seen in this country. Before the summer break, we made an energy deal with all the parties in this Parliament. We have set ourselves some ambitions for a climate-neutral society by 2050. The government has taken on some of the most ambitious and far-reaching climate action in Europe, i.e. the level of where we are going with our climate action. We have said that with the Energy Agreement we will have 100 percent green electricity by 2030. We have not seen such ambitious targets and such ambitious policies from any Danish government in this country before. I just have to remind you of that in all silence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112436	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112444	Thank you very much. Alvoren's big. Every month thousands of Danes join the queue to have a regular practitioner. In the period 2015-2018, the number of Danes who do not have their own permanent physician has almost tripled. This is the period during which Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been prime minister. Nearly 120,000 citizens are now in this queue. The rapporteur speaks today about proximity, quality, responsibility to be taken and increased security of the population. Does the rapporteur not think that the 2019 Finance Act should have contained more than just some declarations of intent in order to solve the very big problem of there being too few practitioners in every corner of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112540	Among other things: It also addresses the fact that you will have a medical degree, among other things. in Køge and also in Southern Denmark. But, in addition, I agree with Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen in that it is a huge challenge. But I would also just like to remind you that the way in which doctors are organised, including practitioners, is also evolving over the years. The individual solo practice, which has been characteristic of the family doctor, as one knows, where the husband is the doctor and the wife is the nurse in practice • is gradually a dying breed. The younger doctors also demand stronger connections and environments to work within. Fortunately, therefore, we also see that we have stronger practices, that we have health houses where more doctors go together, and that we can also offer some more things. As a medical practitioner you are in general practice, yes, but of course you also have something you are better at than other things. Thus you can spread the palette out in relation to offers, and yes, it may not necessarily be the same doctor that the patient gets every time, but at least he or she gets a doctor who knows what he or she is talking about in the area that the patient needs. I think that is a quality boost, but I recognise the second challenge that is being mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112644	Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112647	It accelerates with thousands of citizens every month, while Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been prime minister. Yes, then the rapporteur speaks of the need for initiatives, at the same time as I have had to register as the health rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, that the Left Ministers are disregarding our initiatives to get 100 new main training courses for practitioners, about our establishment of close hospitals, which in itself is the same as what the rapporteur is talking about here, and about the fact that we are going to make a duty of service in relation to newly trained doctors, who are going to give a helping hand in where we are lacking practitioners. So I do not think that action is being taken and I think that two tongues are being spoken on the part of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112731	Then it is the rapporteur who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112734	I'm sorry if I speak with two tongues. I'm trying to avoid that, because if you don't, you're gonna knot yourself. But I would just like to say that we have a full focus on the problem of lack of practitioners; that is also why I mention that it is just being addressed with several medical courses in, among others. Region Sjælland and Syddanmark. We also have a full focus on the development of solo practices, that is, that this is no longer the way doctors want to organize themselves, and that is why facilities must also be provided. It is also one of the things that will be addressed with the new health reform, where you can just make sure you have some opportunities close and local. But I would warn against restoring the old local hospitals where you had to stand and cut people without knowing what it was all about. I would warn against that. If it is easy and easy, it must be local; if it is difficult, it must be handled by specialists who know what it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112817	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112823	Thank you. Many people start by saying thank you for a good speech. I don't really want to do that, because I don't think it was. Instead of telling about the Finance Act, Jacob Jensen held such a kind of troubling of the Social Democratic Party on time posts. And towards the end there were some receipts, but very little about the financial bill. On the other hand, I think that there are some other Leftmen whom I would like to commend, since I cannot extend the praise to Mr Cryer. Jacob Jensen. I think that Mrs Stephanie Lose, who is the chairman of the Regional Council down in the part of the country I come from, is today out with some rather strong and spectacular statements about the health policy direction. She says that the Left has become willing to deal with the party's DNA, that is to say the issue of local anchoring, the decisions close to the citizen, and that comes on top of a history of centralisation that the current Prime Minister has behind him. What she mentions is that a lot of people speak against what the Left is doing, and she says: "And when the Left at Christiansborg says that they take account of the patients, understand that we don't see it as an insult. (First Vice-President) Jesper Petersen! ) Is Mr. Jacob Jensen agrees with that insult?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112938	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen! We need to make our short remarks a little better, otherwise it will be a really long day. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219112946	I just want to emphasise what we have done over the past many years, where we have led this country on health care, also with the financial bill for 2019. With this we have seen just since the 2015 elections lifted health by 6 billion. kr. extra. Several survive cancer • 63 percent. is now alive after 5 years versus 48%. in the early '00s. The waiting time for an operation has been shorter than halved since 2001. Since 2001, 5,800 doctors and 5,900 nurses have been employed in public hospitals. This corresponds to the fact that every day an additional doctor or nurse has been recruited, except on Sundays. According to the statements that have been made, we have the third best health care in Europe. Is that good enough? No, it's never gonna be good enough, I'll tell sir. Jesper Petersen, but we have to go that way. We must then continue along the path where we can raise health care and create a better framework so that our employees' professionalism can get into play, so that they focus on the patient and not on the bureaucracy of the systems that are today built up. After all, this is what the government's reform proposal will address after New Year, so that we get the patient at the centre and the context of the offers, instead of the systems that dictate where the patient should run.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113059	Then it's Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113103	I believe that there are now many areas of health where I would not start such a competition for results and figures. As I understand it, only in 2018 800 fewer employees have been employed during the first 9 months of the year in the overall health care system, and that is how many other things will be highlighted. The question that Stephanie Lose raises today, what the discussion is about, is, after all, the prospect of centralising our health services, as many people point out, and which Stephanie Lose and others from the Left warn against. I think that should be taken seriously. Will Mr. Jacob Jensen thinks it is a step forward if you drop the regions and make professionalized boards without responsibility for elected politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113140	As I tried to say in an earlier answer: for me, this is not about structure. It's about how we put the patient in the center. For example, we have created patients' rights where a guarantee of rapid treatment can be obtained, and we have had cancer treatment packages made, where you get a guarantee that you will receive rapid treatment, because the time factor is crucial for survival, unlike the Social Democracy, which, of course, reduced patient guarantees, which reduced the opportunities you had as a patient. That is where we think it is important to place the patient at the centre and centre of the process, instead of allowing the systems and boxes to dictate where the patient should jump. It's important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113216	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113221	Thank you very much. In fact, part of the Finance Act is also savings on the cost of the daily allowance, not so many in the first place, but in the long term more. It does appear, among other things. by that the government and the Danish People's Party here per. 1 January 2019 will deprive approx. 8,000 people are entitled to their daily allowances. This is done on the pretext of preventing third-country nationals from coming here and abusing the Danish benefit system. For this reason, you introduce a residence requirement • you must have been here for 7 years out of 12 in order to be entitled to the benefit of a residence requirement, which also applies to approx. 2,500 Danish citizens. I have wondered several times during the discussion of this bill: where is the evidence that there is an abuse, that there are third country nationals and Danish nationals coming here to pee on our benefit system? We have to vote on the bill tomorrow, and we haven't got the documentation yet. It may be that the rapporteur can help me: where can you see the abuse that is the pretext for this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113327	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113330	I think it is fair that we have been in Denmark for a period of time. Then we can discuss the length of it, and the government has listened to it and adjusted it accordingly. But I think it is fair that you are in Denmark for a period of time if you are to be entitled to the allowance I think so. That is, of course, the basis for the legislative proposal that is due to be voted on tomorrow, and that is the starting point. I am not going to stand here and tell you whether there is a note in the Ministry of Employment and, if so, Mr. Finn Sørensen has the right to ask all the questions he wants during the third reading. And then you have to see whether the Minister wants to answer that or whether somebody else wants to answer it. But to me it is crucial that, in order to have earned the right to unemployment benefit, you should also have been in Denmark and thus helped to contribute to Denmark for a period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113415	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113419	Thank you. I find it appalling that the day before we vote on a bill that is so intrusive in people's lives that they suddenly experience that they are losing their benefit rights, with all the insecurity that comes from it, especially when you look at the benefit that the government thinks they should live for, namely this new, even lower integration benefit, goes into such a thing without being able to explain to the people why they are doing it. I would just point out that the rapporteur considers it reasonable that more than 8 000 people should be deprived of their right to benefit per person. 1 January 2019 states that it is reasonable for more than 20,000 people to resign from the benefit system. Would the rapporteur not just admit that this is about attacking the benefit system?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113458	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113502	Well, we're discussing the Finance Act here, and the other bill, as Mr. Finn Sørensen refers to, we will then discuss it tomorrow if necessary, and that is where we can then discuss it with both the Minister and other rapporteurs. But when Mr. Finn Sørensen now specifically asks about it, it's just that I answer where my position is. And I think it is fair that one should be in Denmark for a period of time and then one can discuss the length of it, and the government has also listened to that and thus improved the proposal. But you have to be in Denmark for a period of time in order to earn the right to cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113529	Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113535	Thank you. I would really like to return to what several of my colleagues have been circling: health care. I would like to hear what the Left's answer is that new figures show that it is 70%. of the practitioners who have closed to the entry of new patients. After all, it is a huge problem for our health sector that the primary entrance in this way is closed to everything, far too many people. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the draft budget that I can see that solves this. So the very short question to the Left is: What does the Left do about the problem that 70 per cent. of the GPs have closed to the entry of new patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113616	Among other things: We do medical training in order to increase the number of doctors. But it is not something that solves the problem, as Mr. Jens Joel is pointing to here, today or tomorrow. It's something that takes a long time. However, it is a step in that direction, one might say. In addition, it has to be said that it is also about how the regions organise things. Now I happen to be sitting in a region where so-called tender clinics are also offered. I know that there may be political views as to whether it is a good thing or a bad thing. However, it is an attempt to make an organization where doctors can also be attracted to the areas of the country where the medical shortage is greatest. I admit that in urban areas elsewhere, too, there are problems with medical practices closing down on access. However, the problem is all the same in the outskirts. And one of the ways to organize oneself out of it, if you may say so, has been shown in among other things. my own modest region is several places to do these tender clinics, as an alternative. I am not saying that this is the final solution. But for me, it is a question of having access to a doctor and having access to a doctor who also has to do with the patient. Whether it is one organisation or another, it is the way in which we, among other things, work. In the regions, different solutions are being worked on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113720	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113724	At any rate, I would like to point out that this is not going to solve this in the short term. Then for the second, as Mr. Jacob Jensen says, namely about the regional level of local acquaintances. Sir. Jacob Jensen himself set up to become President of the region he referred to as his own modest region, and I think, Mr President, that he is also a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Regional Planning and Relations with Regional and Local Authorities. Jacob Jensen thought it was important to have local knowledge. In this context, it is of course surprising that we cannot get a clear answer from the Left on what we really want with the local link, which ensures local knowledge. What is the position of prominent Leftmen, including the Regional Council President of the Southern Denmark Region, Stephanie Lose, saying that the regions should not be closed down? We can't get an answer from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113803	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113806	It can be said that the local link which has local knowledge, including in the area of health, is in fact the municipalities, which are the most local link. Now Mr. Laughs. Jens Joel, but it is. A large part of the health assignment is already in the municipalities in relation to rehabilitation and a lot of other things. So they know about it. I am not going to stand here and anticipate the course of events, in relation to what an initiative that comes on the other side of New Year's from the government looks like. However, I would just like to say that the pressure remains to ensure precisely the proximity and local knowledge and the possibility of creating a better course for the patient in the context, so as to avoid the cash-flow thinking that we have experienced today in far too many cases as a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113847	Then it's Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113854	Thank you. With the Finance Bill, 20 selected outskirts get 500,000 kroner. extra in 2019. If you look at, for example... Midjællands Gymnasium, it can be seen that since 2015 the government has been saving in the vicinity of 5.5 million. kr. Approx. 11 times as much as is now added to the same high school. So how much good does the rapporteur think the 500,000 kroner? will do so when the government continues to make millions of savings in the field of education at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219113922	First of all, I do not recognise the premise that we are continuing the million savings. It is true that a re-prioritisation contribution continues in parts of the area. But we've addressed that as well. This is something that we are abolishing from 2022 in the sense that there we can see that there is better air in the economy to be able to do so. But it's not like that money disappeared into thin air. After all, they have remained in the welfare area under one and among others. I should also like to refer to some of the specific measures to which the rapporteur refers, such as: a targeted effort for those secondary schools in the outermost regions that are particularly hard pressed on their economy. But we just have a particular challenge in vocational training, and that is why we are already removing from next year the re-priority contribution to vocational training. That is what is called a priority of where the challenge is absolutely greatest here and now. We have already addressed what it should look like, even as far as high schools are concerned, when there will then be better air in the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114017	Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114021	But does the government believe that Denmark will be more united when, as far as I understand, the general savings in education continue, among other things, in the next few years? The high schools, also in the province?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114032	We should not now see high schools as the only part of education. It is true that we are adding more money to some of these particularly vulnerable high schools with the arguments I just mentioned. They have a particular challenge, because the number of pupils is particularly pressured, and thus their overall economy is also being particularly pressured. That is what we are trying to address with the draft budget. In addition, however, it is precisely the case that we are providing quite significant means, including, among other things: with the Eud Agreement for 2019-2022, where, as I said, we remove the re-prioritisation contribution in the case of vocational schools. In addition, 500 million will be set aside. kr. over 3 years for the training of professionally weak students in primary school, and that is how I could go on. There are streaks of actions that promise, but targeted, priority promises.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114111	Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114117	Thank you. It sounds amazing when the rapporteur of the Left says that it is now about people first in the health service, and then what the Left has is clearly that we are going to have to look again at the structures of the health service • some bureaucratic exercise which apparently involves a further centralisation and apparently also a red tape, at least that the weight is being shifted from elected politicians who decide on health to officials. How does it relate to the fact that we see a development in health care, where the real problems are that there is longer waiting time for cancer treatment, that 120,000 Danes do not have access to their own practitioner, and that since 2015 we have lost 133 nurses, but that 54,000 more patients have arrived? Should the Left not concentrate on solving the problems rather than another structural reform, which is centralising decisions on health care, and helping to pull elected politicians to determine how health care should develop?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114225	I'm very impressed by the fact that sir... Mogens Jensen, unlike me, knows the content of the proposal that the government has not yet completed. I must say, I am very impressed by that. But I just have to maintain and counter it postulate that it should be the case that we are on the verge of knock-out as far as health care is concerned. Yes, there are huge challenges. Yes, there are many places, medical departments and other places where we have challenges. And yes, there is a shortage of practitioners, as other rapporteurs have said. But that's one of them. Therefore, we are trying to address it very specifically and that, as I mentioned, we also come back with a government proposal here only in the new year, when it is precisely the aim to ensure proximity in cases where it makes sense that there should be proximity and where we build on it, one might say structure, which is now with specialised hospitals and emergency hospitals around Denmark. I do not think there are any Danes who want to go back to the times when there was a local hospital, where, in the vast majority of cases, patients could not be taken care of properly and where they would have to be transported to other hospitals. That time is over, sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114326	Then it's Mogens Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114329	But the rapporteur of the Left confirms the picture. Now we want to tackle bureaucratic structural reform again instead of solving the problems that they are actually facing in the health services and that all the people out there can feel. Will the rapporteur of the Left agree with me that it is a great challenge and a huge problem that under this government 130 nurses have disappeared while 54 000 more patients have arrived? And what does the Left intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114357	I don't know what these numbers are, sir. Mogens Jensen drives around in. But I just think, when we have this discussion about how health care should be organized, that social democracy should be a little bit careful. When the last structural reform was carried out, there was opposition to the creation of the regions, for then the old counties were glorified as the only right thing. Now that we are saying that we want to discuss and assess openly and without prejudice, what we need to do in the future with the new challenges that exist, to organise our health services, we are also opposed, because now we are glorifying the regions we ourselves were opposed to when they were created. Excuse me, sir. Mogens Jensen, there must therefore be an adult present.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114432	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114439	Thank you. There has not been much talk about primary school today, and I think that is a pity, since it is in primary school that we are helping to form some of the children who will shape our country in the future. I noted that the rapporteur very briefly mentioned that the Finance Act has set aside money to lift professionally weak pupils, and it is, of course, good that a small amount has been set aside. It's off as a school prize pool. When I still have a question, it's because I actually think that what the government is doing with this pool is a little bit tending to cheat. And I am not saying that for fun; I say that because I actually mean it. Of the schools that have been involved in this, 64 schools out of 104 have received money because they have received this prize. And then I asked, what happens to the rest of the money? Are they being channelled into primary school in a different way, otherwise that is not the promise that the government is talking about? And there is the answer immediately: No, they go back into the Treasury's treasury and are spent on something else. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: if we really want to give the primary school a boost, is it not a good idea to spend the money the government has set aside for primary school at primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114541	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114545	I mean, I think it's really targeted and well-priorityd, and I hope so. After all, Jacob Mark agrees with me on this; I also heard that we are just focusing on the professionally challenged students. And therefore, if you are going to give a boost, you have to do it where you can see that you can actually lift, that is to say, really lift, some students, instead of, if you have to say, lubricate a very, very thin liver pie all over the area. Because there are places, both geographically and according to other criteria, where the challenge is greatest. And that's what we're trying to address with this. I am not going to be very clever about the technique, about the money that is not being spent, then go back. I think you have to see this as a whole and as an overall priority for a primary school, but where you can see the challenges most. And so these are some of these places where there are professionally weak pupils, but where we can see that they lift up significantly when they make such a determined effort as this is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114636	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114640	Well, I think it would make sense to give priority to those schools where there are many vulnerable students. What is then just my appeal is that the schools which have tried to make an effort but which have not succeeded in raising pupils' grades now have an extra bill because they have done something extra but do not get extra money. There's only 64 out of the 104 schools that get extra money. The rest goes to the treasury. And then my question to the rapporteur is simply: if you really want to give the primary school a boost, why not spend all the money you have set aside at the primary school instead of taking it back to the fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114715	Yeah, but for that, you can say two things. First of all, it is one thing that we, from a central point of view, introduce and set up as criteria for targeted action. Jacob Mark recognizes that, and I am pleased about that, but in addition to that, it is the municipalities that are responsible for the public schools, and we have just given them an economic boost. And how they choose to prioritize it among other things. As regards the school area and other tasks to be carried out, it is precisely a matter for the local authorities. Secondly, it is not directly aimed at primary school, but it will still be the 1,000-day plan that we have also launched for young children, so that they will have better opportunities to do well when they reach primary school age. So the two elements have to be seen in the context of how we lift the primary school by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114753	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114756	Thank you so much. In the alternative, we have just got our people home from Poland, where they have been updated on the facts from the researchers that show what happens if we get temperature increases of 1.5 degrees. Then there will be only 48 cm of water increase and only 17 per cent. More cloudbreaks. The number of people who will experience a shortage of drinking water only increases by 271 million. There will be only 10 trillion dollars in annual flood damage alone on water increases, and only 70 to 80%. of the world's coral reefs disappear. It only gets ice-free every ten years, which means that the polar bear also disappears. Since it is now the case that the climate direction of the Left and the Government is pointing more towards a temperature rise of 3 degrees instead of 1.5 degrees, which is already a disaster, does the rapporteur understand that we are some who think that the government does not understand at all what is happening in this world?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219114856	The latter, I think, should be left uncontroversial, it speaks for itself. I simply repeat that this government has taken on some of the highest climate ambitions in Europe, some of the highest climate ambitions, if not the highest that any Danish government has undertaken. We have agreed, also with the Alternative, an energy agreement that will enable us to have green energy in our contacts by 2030. We have an ambition that by 2050 we will have a climate-neutral country. So these are some of the highest ambitions we have seen and we put action behind words. I think it was yesterday that it was also announced that we now need to find out where out of two areas the next offshore wind farm will be one of the largest if not the largest in the world. So it is not the case that nothing concrete is being done here and now. There will be, but we also have the long light on; I think we can say that when we talk about something that is going to happen by 2030 and by 2050. I recognise that there is a huge challenge, but I would also say that Denmark is not part of the problem. Denmark is actually part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219115003	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219115006	We are a country that emits a lot of CO2 so yes, we are really a huge part of the problem. And when we know that an increase of 1.5 degrees, which politicians say is the climate target that we must try to achieve, is already a disaster, can the rapporteur not understand that it seems rather like the government is coming from another planet when it is the case that we do not respond much more strongly to the challenges that have become so unimaginably obvious to us?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219115040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219115043	I fully agree with the alternative rapporteur that the government comes from another planet compared to where the alternative appears to be. Then we can discuss which planet we in the Left are on and where the alternative is. But the planet on which I find myself needs some of the solutions that we have created and continue to create in Denmark. It needs solutions in the field of technology, methodology and development in Denmark. If we can export it to the rest of the world, I was just about to say that Denmark can solve the climate problems in the world. I do not think that we can do that alone, but it is certainly a huge step along the way, and in addition it creates thousands of jobs and income for the Danish welfare community, which we have just prioritized and can prioritise with our financial law for 2019 that we have put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219115123	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. We have reached the time when we have to conclude in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we have. And then it's sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, for the rapporteur's speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219115141	This Finance Act is basically a picture of how the right wing rules in Denmark. It contains some serious interventions in the safety of employees with a reduction in the level of integration benefit to a new low point, the introduction of residence requirements for entitlement to unemployment benefit, further starvation of welfare and a totally inadequate response to the Labour Inspectorate and the fight against employers' imports of cheap labour. Last but not least, the fight against climate change and the fight for a better climate, nature and biodiversity are almost totally absent from the draft Finance Act. The government wants to appear green, but it has to be said that there is a very long way from the government's green tie and then to the concrete proposals to ensure that words and actions are followed. The government has words in its mouth, but no will, desire or ambition when it comes to concrete action. This Finance Act is yet another Finance Act, where the blue parties are giving gifts to the wealthy, where there is too little money for welfare and where they are getting interests taken care of in contrast to the interests of many. The current government has as its ambition to make welfare worse. Not only should welfare lag behind the development of wealth, it should not keep up with the increasing number of children and the elderly. The current Finance Act is therefore also a significant under-funding of welfare. While public consumption is increasing by 0.5%. in 2019, spending will increase by 0.7 per cent, only as a result of more elderly people and children. In round figures, this is equivalent to a loss of service of about 1.5 billion. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are seeing with the draft Finance Act that lies, a growth that has not been seen any lower since 2006. There is a need to reverse developments, not only to provide enough money to follow demography, but also, in fact, to ensure that welfare follows the general development of prosperity in society. The Climate Council has concluded that the government's climate plan does not even meet the commitments made by the government to other countries. The government's policy is actually so unambitious that even the friends at the top of the business are shouting out. If we are to have a chance to curb climate change and thus avoid sending a huge bill to future generations, action must now be taken. And we already know what tools work, but unfortunately, the government would rather give tax reductions to friends at the top of the business community than take care of the children and adults of the future. Priority is given to small 350 million. kr. to climate and nature, and not even all the money goes to determined climate and nature. They will be prioritised until 2022. It is therefore clear that the green effort is not a priority for this government. Another clear sign of this is that, in connection with the opening of the Danish Parliament, the Prime Minister announced that the government's target would be 1 million green cars by 2030. But when we were going to negotiate, the government would make no concrete proposals for anything other than a lousy 1,000 additional cars. The negotiations collapsed against this background, in other words because of the lack of ambition of the government and the grotesque distance between words and actions that we see from the government. Although the Finance Law Agreement involves a dispute with the financing of the rate pool, the agreement does not imply that people on income transfers, for example: people on cash benefits, cash benefits and early retirement get more money between their hands. On the contrary, people on transfer income will get less when wages increase by less than 2.3 per cent. per year, in relation to the current rate regulation. So if the regulation to replace the rate regulation had been in force since the mid-00s, a person on the daily allowance alone would have had a little less than DKr 4 000. less a year before tax. A real break-up of transfers would mean that in future they will rise at the same rate as wages, but it has to be said that it is far from the present government to implement such a policy of solidarity. At the same time, the government is introducing compulsory savings for people on transfer income. Pension savings are fine, but it is less fine, to say the least, that it is the dog that has to be fed its own tail because pension savings are financed with lower benefits. It's unsolidarical to finance pension savings is a task for the community. We also see that inequality is increasing; the rich are getting significantly richer. Government policy is helping to push further on this development and a series of tax reductions has been implemented, both targeted personal taxes and taxes for the richest, while business has received lower tax and tax payments. The current Financial Law Agreement still provides about 500 million. kr. targeted for business. Unlike societies are unfair, less stable and marked by a number of undesirable forms. We must move in the opposite direction. We also have the problem of poverty and we can see that new figures show that the number of children living in poverty is increasing. This is an appalling trend that can be attributed, not least to the poverty reforms of the current government. The ceiling on cash benefits is very wide and two thirds of those affected by the ceiling are Danish citizens. With regard to the integration benefit, from 1 January it also affects a lot of Danish nationals who have been abroad and who do not meet the residence requirement for daily subsistence allowances. It is clear that all the talk about foreigners in practical politics, when the concrete proposals are on the table, is part of a deliberate strategy to increase poverty, knowing that it will put pressure on the minimum wage and undermine the security of employees as such. The constant search for refugees and immigrants also helps to send their children into long-term poverty. The current Finance Act only makes life worse for refugee children, taking DKK 1,000 and DKK 2,000 respectively. from refugees who are single parents and couples with children. Apparently, there are no limits to how indifferent the government and DF can be to poverty for the children who live in our country. And apparently there is no lower limit to how poor the government and DF want to offer children whose parents are not Danish citizens. This government has unparalleledly implemented the most inhuman refugee policy in recent Danish history. The 2019 Finance Act takes another step in inhumane treatment of refugees. It is still unclear how many of the initiatives will be put into practice, but the symbolism is clear to everyone, and there is no doubt that we are even more on a direct confrontational course with general decency, with general fairness and international conventions. The Danish People's Party had the chance. The Danish People's Party has helped the government with this Finance Act, but this Finance Act had not been passed without the support of the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party could have ensured that welfare had increased more than a mere 0.5%. The Danish People's Party could have held on to the fact that the minor regulation in the rate pool had to be abolished without it having to be used to fund compulsory savings for pensions, without the new model meaning that people on transfer income, for example. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and their trailers is an important step in the right direction. However, the Danish People's Party again chose to sacrifice the welfare in favour of further dehumanization of the conditions of refugees and immigrants. It may well be that the Danish People's Party is trying to sound like a responsible party, but when it comes down to it, DF is ready to sacrifice the entire piervit, if only you can give refugee families with children even worse conditions with 2,000 DKK. less a month. It doesn't have to be like that. There's another direction. We have presented our Finance Bill on the part of the Enhedslisten. It's our 100-day plan, which we call 100 days with Enhedslisten. So here we're going to give you an idea of what you could do for the first 100 days. It is a practical policy, it can be done, it is fully funded. And it is an indication of what we could just do if we wanted to move in a different direction. And we could start tomorrow if there was a majority. We will introduce a Climate Law with binding targets for reducing CO2 emissions are too busy today and there are too many children per year. Pedagogics in kindergartens. We want to ensure security in the labour market. No one in our country should be afraid of becoming ill, unemployed or old, and this requires improvements, for example. the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits, the integration allowance and the 225-hour rule. We want to make Denmark a humanitarian superpower. For example: Of course, development aid must return to 1%. of GNP, and we will cancel the purchase of new fighter aircraft. We want to hire extra tax workers in tax control because we simply cannot afford not to, and because today our society is missing billions of dollars that should have been in the box a long time ago. That is why we have a choice, and that is why we are really looking forward to a forthcoming parliamentary elections with pleasure, because we really want a new policy, and it should be clear to everyone that we need a new government, but that in particular we need a new policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219120148	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. It is the case that the short remarks and questions are left until after the midday break, so that we resume the meeting with questions to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund, kl. 13.00. It's a dinner break.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130053	The sitting is resumed. We are in the process of making the brief remarks to Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and the next question is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130105	Thank you. I would like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur something. Now I understand that you are asking with your own Prime Minister's candidate, and it must be on the basis that you do not think that the Prime Minister's candidate for the Social Democrats is good enough, but do you not make an impression on the Enhedslisten in a positive direction, from the perspective of the Enhedslisten, that the Social Democrats are now clearly moving in the direction of the Enhedslisten on foreign policy? We have been told here earlier today that we cannot stand behind an island for rejected criminal asylum seekers, and we have also been told that it is not possible to say that we should have an integration benefit and a cash aid ceiling as we know it. One would therefore like to see an opportunity to move in the direction that the Enhedslisten wishes, namely to remove the integration benefit and the ceiling on cash benefits. After all, does the Enhedslisten not see this as a movement by the Social Democrats on the question of foreigners towards the policy of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130203	It is true that we are putting forward with our own Prime Minister's candidate. It is then up to the voters to decide who will lead our country. If we get the necessary support and if it is the case that the parties Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF together have to be larger than the Social Democracy, then we will also point to a negotiating leader from one of the three parties, and we will gladly make ourselves available there. Unfortunately, in relation to whether social democracy is moving towards foreign policy, I do not think there are so many signs of it. There is one difference, however, which was also clear in connection with the opening debate in the Folketing, where it is of course about that when people are here and, for example, when people are here. cannot be sent home because they are rejected asylum seekers, so they must at least contribute while they are here and be able to pay for their own stay by doing something sensible while they are here. So there is, for example. Some thoughts in what you might be able to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130303	Now there is a concrete proposal, among other things. from the Enhedslisten side to roll back the integration benefit and remove the cash aid ceiling, and it clearly chooses not to vote against it. Nor do I believe that we support it from the outset, but we are voting yellow, but that is a step in the direction that the Enhedslisten is also taking. Similarly, with the very mentioned island of Lindholm, where they also go in and say that they cannot support the government's proposal and that they are voting yellow. Does the Enhedslisten not get the impression, with the reports from the Social Democratic Party, that the Social Democracy is moving in the same direction as the Enhedslisten, and that it is therefore also a movement towards accommodating Enhedslisten's immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130342	No, I'm having a hard time seeing the movement of sir. Jacob Jensen describes. In relation to the integration allowance, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, it would be most natural on the part of the Social Democratic Party to have a prime minister who would like to be the prime minister of the children, that it was decided to state clearly that those benefits should not be there, because they have been the main cause of the explosion in the number of poor children that we have seen since 2015. In relation to Lindholm, I find it extremely strange that the Social Democrats cannot vote against the creation of the new exit centre. And the abstention from the vote seems to me to be a very weak view of something which, at least symbolically, is an expression of a very inhumane and very boring way of looking at the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130435	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130438	Thank you. In other words, climate aid for the world's poorest is absolutely crucial if developing countries are to carry out the green transition and adapt to the climate change that is already taking place today. If they do not get the money we have promised, that is, the USD 100 billion in the Paris agreement from 2020 onwards, then we risk pulling the curtain away under the Paris agreement. It is therefore crucial that Denmark makes its fair contribution to international climate assistance. We are not doing that today, far from it. I know that the Enhedslisten will raise development aid to 1%, but what are the real thoughts on climate finance for developing countries? Can additional money be added to them, to climate aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130540	This is certainly something we will be open to discussing. This was also the case in the past, for example, if we were to do so. 10 years back. We had foreign aid, which was 1%. In addition, we had an additional form of aid, such as: could be used in the environmental field. It was, of course, an arrangement that we believe could easily be returned to. The reason why in my speech I highlight the 1%. of GNP, which we should come up with from the current 0.7%, is that it appears as part of our 100-day plan •100 days with Enhedslisten • which is, of course, our draft Finance Act and which is then also one of the 100 points that we would be launching if it were us who could decide if it were we who had power, as we have been watching here in the Folketing, or if it were we who had 90 mandates behind our policies in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130631	Thank you. That's good to hear. And a little something else: we have had a little debate on the issue of levying a levy on meat, and that is because meat has a very high climate impact on production, and that is why we need to reduce both the production and consumption of meat. I have the impression that we are relatively in agreement on this. But the approach to it is slightly different, because in Enhedslisten it is believed that it should be imposed on production, and therefore you get a bias compared to meat produced abroad. I just want to know if we can find a solution to this, and especially if we also make promises from the bottom of society, so that it is not, what can be said, a distortion of which there has also been criticism in connection with a meat tax, in other words that it will particularly affect the low-income groups in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130726	We think that we should put taxes on consumption, which are climate-damaging, and that applies to all forms of consumption. Then we have a discussion with the Alternative... that's right... about how best to make such a tax. The alternative suggests that it should be put on the consumer, while we think that the model proposed by the alternative is at least very unfair, because if the director of Hellerup buys a very expensive beef tenderloin, it is the same tax that is paid as if the so-su assistant from Herlev is going down to buy meat at not so high a price. In this way it will be socially wrong when you pay the same in tax in kroner and ear for 1 kg of meat. We would rather put the tax at the production stage. So it is true that one can say that all Danish meat production will then not be taken over by producers in Poland or Germany? But the prerequisite for this exercise is, for example, that other countries also live up to their climate promises in relation to the Paris Agreement, because then that figure will certainly go up. But it is clear that it is one of those things. is a prerequisite for this equation to be linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130837	The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130842	Thank you. It is, of course, the last budget debate before a parliamentary election, and after the next parliamentary elections, the Enhedslisten has announced that Enhedslisten will then point to Mrs Pernille Skipper as the negotiating leader. My question is therefore: why is it that Enhedslisten has chosen to do this this time? Is there any reason why Mrs Mette Frederiksen should not be pointed out as the negotiating leader this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219130907	There are two reasons for this. Firstly, we are Denmark's fourth largest party, and we have ambitions to move forward. We have ambitions to be the great party on the left, and we think it is time that we also reported clearly, as I do, that all the other parties have, in fact, the fact that we are going after the power of this country to determine the direction. I mean, it's not my party's or, to that extent, the role of other parties... I'm guessing that I'm bringing the front people or presidents of other parties to power. So that is one reason and we believe that a political shift is necessary. The second thing is that we were very disappointed when we saw the Social Democratic leader of the government from 2011 to 2015, where among others. The inequality increased and where we had some serious struggles, also in relation to the budgets of the municipalities and regions, where the government made agreements with the blue side of the Folketing, including with the Left, rather than making agreements with us, which meant that among other things. was negative growth relative to budgets in some of the years from 2011 to 2015. So it is also some of the sad experiences of the past which, of course, have made us think this in a new way for the next election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131018	But what does it take for Enhedslisten to point to Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister, if it is that Enhedslisten cannot find the majority behind a Prime Minister from the Enhedslisten? What does it take to point to a Socialist Prime Minister's candidate? For I suppose that is what the Social Democrats are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131036	After all, it is the voters who decide which parties should have which votes, and if there are not enough votes to be able to be Mrs Pernille Skipper, who can be Prime Minister, then it is clear that we will point to the Prime Minister's candidate, who will give us the most influence and who is not our own bid for a Prime Minister's candidate. There we have agreed that it has been agreed in our board of directors that we will make use of the possibility of making demands in connection with the formation of government, and these are in principle requirements in all areas. But exactly what kind of demands it will be and how it will be made and in what form it will be, is something that we are discussing very much internally, and on the day we make those demands, I am sure that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm will also discover it. But I also believe that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm can understand that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm will probably not be the first to be informed of what our demands will be in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131136	The next question is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131138	Thank you for that and also thank you for the rapporteur's speech, although it has been an hour since it was there. It was quite interesting, and I also think it is interesting now that it is said by the Enhedslisten that one would like to be the great party on the left. This is of course interesting, because if we go back to the rapporteur's speech in this way, we have to say that in 100 days we can re-enact this society. As I heard, there should be a job guarantee for everyone, and if we go in and look at Enhedslisten's website, one would also like the state to take over the banks, and one would like the private initiative to take up less space. Are we on our way to where Enhedslisten actually comes back to where you come from? You might write it differently today on social media and other things, but it's really the pure communism you want to go back to where the state fills much more than it does today, and where the private initiative takes up much less and Enhedslisten wants to be the largest party on the left?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131231	If the rapporteur refers to the financial sector initiative that we launched yesterday, where we are presenting 47 proposals for reforms of the financial sector, then it is true that we are proposing a number of fundamental changes to the financial sector. Among other things: We believe that there should be a publicly owned bank; we believe that the banks should be split up so that they do not pose a danger to the economy, there should be control over the fees; and we must have increased penalties for the people involved in fraud and cheating. It must also be said that the proposal we have made may bring some fundamental changes, but they are no more fundamental than the very great liberalisation and development that has made banks today into financial supermarkets. Much of what we are proposing is to get the banks back to normal, I would call it, rather than continuing with the current experiment with the financial supermarkets that are expensive for customers, which have resulted in many scandals, and which may also be a threat to the economy in the context of financial crises. So yes, there must be fundamental reforms, but in reality it is about rolling things back to a more sensible level, a more sensible rent, and which labels you then give it, I do not know. But I would call it sensible policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131354	Thank you. Then I would like to ask about something quite different and on another ball street, and that is, of course, that there is such a great deal of unrest in what we usually call red block. There are many prime minister candidates who are fighting for the favour of the electorate. Does the rapporteur see as such an advantage for cooperation in the red bloc that it is now possible to see today that the Social Democrats are firmly backing up to pursue a strict immigration policy, that they are now saying publicly that there are some things they do not want to do? For example, you will not be involved in setting up a new third exit centre, and you will not be involved in what is happening around the integration service. In other words, we are beginning to back up and will roll back some of the austerity measures that have been implemented over the last four years. Does the rapporteur see this as a step in the right direction when it comes to bringing together a red block?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131439	Unfortunately, I have to say as I also said to Mr. Jacob Jensen and Mrs Louise Schack Elholm that I do not see the great movement on that point. In other words, that the Social Democrats cannot even find a way of voting red for the establishment of Lindholm as an exit centre, that the Social Democrats cannot even find a way of reporting publicly and clearly that, of course, they want to abolish the integration benefit, the 225-hour rule and the cash aid ceiling, I find it embarrassing, but I also think it is more an expression of a lack of movement than anything else. It is also a sign that we need not only a new government, but also a new policy in which we are drawing Denmark in a more sensible direction. And that means that the Left, and not least the Enhedslisten, will be strengthened in a forthcoming parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131528	The next question is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131531	Thank you. If you are toying with the idea that the majority will change after the next elections, the Socialist Group chairman has said that he wants to pursue economic policy with the bourgeois-liberal parties. All I have to say is that if that were to happen, what would be the consequence of the Enhedslisten as a parliamentary basis, then there would have to be a change in the majority? What, I hope, will be the consequence of a non-governmental socialist government if such a government had to pursue economic policy to the right of the middle?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131613	If we were to find ourselves in the situation of having a social democratic government after a forthcoming election and the Enhedslisten becoming a support party for such a government, we would have it that way, and we have also made it very clear that we will have an impact on all areas, including economic policy, refugee and immigration policy, fiscal policy and environmental policy in all areas. And we will not tolerate saying that there are some areas in which the Enhedslisten cannot influence, because economic policy will be pursued with the bourgeois. It is not a logic that we accept, and it is not what we expect of such cooperation if it ends in the situation that we have a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131700-2	Thank you for your answer. This means, of course, that when the President of the Socialist Party talks about the logic of the mandate in relation to the immigration and integration policy, it does not agree with Enhedslisten's view, because Enhedslisten will not accept, if there is a red majority, that foreign and integration policy will then be conducted, for example, with the Left. This means that the Enhedslisten strongly disagrees with it, and when the Social Democrat President says that it is the logic of the mandates that speaks, says Enhedslisten no, because Enhedslisten must also have an influence on the immigration and integration policy in Denmark, did the majority have to change after the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131745	Yeah, that's absolutely right. We must have an influence on all areas, including refugee and immigration policy. I can also present another kind of logic of the mandates, and that is what is called the creation of 90 seats in order to be able to take up a government office. That is also the logic of the mandates. And that logic is, of course, linked to the fact that we say that if we are to deliver mandates to a government, it must also be reflected in the direction of government policy. Of course, our mandates and the strength we bring into it must also be reflected in the policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131820	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131824	Thank you. I would actually like to address some of what Enhedslisten's rapporteur was about here a short time ago, i.e. that Enhedslisten would like to raise some more money by putting increased taxes on consumption, and that is what I need, like to hear if Enhedslisten could try to clarify it a little. I know that the rapporteur said that it naturally also required some things to be done in other countries in order for it to be coherent. What will be the consequences? I guess some calculations have been made on these things. In other words, if you increase taxes on consumption in general, what will it have to do with consequences for, among other things, energy consumption? For example: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219131911	If it goes along with that, as Mr. Christian Poll, asked about, I would say that we have a situation where it makes economic sense to impose charges on anti-climate consumption. These taxes can then be applied to consumers, or they can be applied at the production stage, in other words to production. If you place them on the consumer, it is the case that all taxes per person. definition is socially skewed, which means that they hit the director in North Zealand as hard as they hit the sosu assistant in Herlev. In other words, if you go in and make sensible tax changes or increases which should affect consumption in a more sensible way, you will have to make some compensatory measures in tax policy or increase the green cheque so that it does not get out of balance socially. Then there is the discussion about what we are doing with regard to the CO2 alternative, of course, that they should be put on the consumer, which we believe would be socially wrong. We believe that they should be put at the production stage, among other things. because the vast majority of all food produced in this country is actually sent out of the country for export, so if you are thinking only of putting a tax on the consumer, you are dealing with a very small proportion of total agricultural production. What is the problem, after all, of imposing a levy on production would be that if not other countries also live up to their promises in the Paris agreement, some Danish beef production will be pushed to, for example, the United Kingdom. Poland or Germany, and that will not make sense. On the other hand, it must also be said that we are in a situation of difficult choices and that, in any case, we are in a situation where the things that go beyond the climate and that damage the climate must be done less, whether it is in the transport sector or, for example, whether it is in the transport sector. is in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219132058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219132059	Thank you for your answer. I can hear that if the Enhedslisten were to get into the situation of influencing the next government, it would be very difficult to be a private operator in this country, because, as I understand it, it is again the production stage that has to be penalised by some higher taxes. On the whole, much of Enhedslisten's policy is that the private sector should be reduced. I would also like answers to that question: if the private part is to be reduced, that is to say that the private area must be much smaller, where does Enhedslisten think the jobs should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219132152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219132152-2	I am actually pleased to have the question, because we are currently working on a climate plan up to us, where the goal is to solve the task of living up to the Paris Agreement; it must be socially balanced so that it does not create more inequality; and then the money must fit. When we saw, for example... will put higher charges on anti-climate consumption, the money should be channelled back through e.g. a larger green check for consumers. As far as business is concerned, the model and direction we are working on here is that, overall, it should not be something that goes in negative for business either. In other words, the taxes that may be put on the production stage in the agricultural sector must be returned to the sector, not least as conversion aid, so that we can adapt ourselves to a situation where, in future, we must have a green economy that is sustainable and that is sustainable in the long term because of the serious and threatening climate change that is coming to an end. So business is not supposed to pay anymore. We are thinking of a revenue-neutral change. That is the direction we are working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219132304	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219132326	Thank you for that, President. Now it's Christmas, and we can all gather to enjoy it, perhaps not in the Alternative, where you've been upset that Santa Claus is a man You can also feel that it's Christmas, because the Social Democracy and the other left have a strong desire to distribute many gifts, of course paid by the citizens to whom they want to give them. But fortunately, this government and the Danish People's Party have made a strict and responsible financial bill with room for a limited increase in public spending. The final figure is going to land at about 0.5%, which is broadly in line with the government's proposal. We can also welcome the fact that the overall tax burden has fallen well since the parliamentary elections in 2015. We have thus stopped consumption sickness, which we looked up through the 1990s and the 00s, where there was up to 3% growth in public consumption in certain years. It's an important bourgeois print. We are well aware that the opposition will criticise us for the fact that 0.5% of consumption growth is below the demographic trend. To this we have to say that fiscal policy is not controlled and will never be governed according to demographic trends. That is not the purpose of fiscal policy at all. The aim of fiscal policy is, inter alia, to: to stabilise the economy and, right now, to pursue a strict fiscal policy. We must not, therefore, be blinded by an opposition that is prepared to go crazy about spending. That is, for example, the case. a fact that if Mette Frederiksen's and Pia Olsen Dyhr's policies had been implemented when they were last in opposition, we would not have had the opportunity to pull Denmark out of the crisis, because then Denmark would have been in an economic chaos. Let me just remind you that in 2011 S and SF went to elections at an economic level that was underfunded by at least 22 billion. kr. They themselves recognized this when they came into government. If we go back to the 2007 elections, then the Social Democrats thought that 100 billion would be needed. kr. At a higher level of public consumption. Fortunately, social democracy is not a party that takes their own electoral vows too seriously. That is why I also see this draft budget as a small bourgeois-liberal victory. We have long since rounded the 535 billion. kr. in public consumption. Public consumption as a share of GDP is not higher in many parts of the world; I think it is only Sweden that has a slightly higher public consumption as a share of GDP. Therefore, the question is also whether the last billions of dollars would not really do any more good if they remained in the pockets of the citizens, so that it became more attractive to work, invest and save. The best way to increase the overall welfare of the Danes is to let them have a greater share of the fruitage of their own work. That is why it is also good that with this draft budget we are reducing taxes and taxes for 700 million. kr. It comes on top of the more than 20 billion. We have already relieved the tax during this parliamentary term. It is worth noting real tax cuts and not just tax adjustments, as under previous governments. It is good that we abolish the waste charge imposed by the VK government in 2010. It has been a source of great frustration for special self-employed people. Many have thus been asked to pay a waste fee, even if they do not produce any waste, which is of course quite meaningless. The waste charge is also both expensive and heavy to administer for the municipalities, and it is now being removed. We lower the taxes on beer and wine. We roll back Thorning-Schmidt's envy tax on yacht insurance, so it becomes more attractive to register your yacht in Denmark. We equate hotels with other production companies in terms of the tax on space heating. It is also good that in future students will have to earn more in addition to the su. This is something we have been working for for many years. It is also good that we have a feasibility study of a user-paid fixed link across the Kattegat. This is the first step towards realising that project. It is good that we are abolishing the rate pool in its current form and in future we are spending the money more sensibly. We in the Liberal Alliance have long had a desire to abolish the rate pool and to do away with the inefficient pool circus as it is. We replace, among other things. the rate pool with compulsory pension savings for all on transfer income. It will also help to reduce public expenditure in the long term. At the same time, it becomes more attractive to work when you are on a retirement pension. In fact, many pensioners would like to have a link with the labour market. We support that, for example. to increase the basic deduction for the amount of the pension, from DKr 60,000 to DKr 100,000. It is also much more sensible to spend money on the basic amount of the pensionists than on the rate pool. It is also good that we are once again tightening up foreign policy. Decades of failed immigration policy have been expensive for our country. We have received far too many people from non-western countries with far too poor conditions for integration into the labour market and with far too high a tendency to commit crime. The idea of the refugee system has never been that it should be an immigration system, but it has developed into that. In LA we think that Denmark should be an open country for foreigners who come here to work it will be Denmark richer by • but we should not receive any more refugees. With this financial agreement, we are being stressed that as a refugee we must return home as soon as possible. You no longer get refugee status for permanent residence. Denmark has been far too crazy in distributing high cash benefits to refugees. It means something to the influx. Here we tighten up further. The reason why the Danish economy is currently strong is that reforms have been carried out. Reforms have been made on daily allowances, early retirement, cash benefits, pensions • all of this has been beneficial for Danish economy and for Danes. We are reaping the fruits of that now. Reforms work. Reforms increase employment. Reforms make Denmark more prosperous and we must continue along this path. The reforms have meant that the number of people who are publicly dependent in working age is the lowest for 30 years. In addition to the fact that the reforms have made Denmark and the Danes more prosperous, it is also a huge social progress. Ironically, large parts of the left, which otherwise talk a lot about social problems, have been fiercely opposed to these reforms. Instead, the left is more concerned with talking about non-problems such as economic inequality. I have to say here that economic inequality is not a problem in Denmark. It is not the same as that there are no social problems in Denmark, because there is, but economic inequality is not a problem in Denmark. Now social democracy and the rest of the left often say one when they are in opposition, and something else when they are in government. We saw this under the Thorning-Schmidt government, where Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mette Frederiksen were very prominent ministers. In this case, corporate tax was reduced from 25 to 22 per cent. That was very sensible. Cash benefits were cut for young people, and marginal taxes were relieved for some of them with high incomes. After all, those parties did that because it was the best thing for Denmark. Now the Social Democracy is in opposition, and then there are markedly different tones. The Social Democratic Party has put forward a terrifying set of political proposals which aim to cut back those who already contribute most to the welfare society. Let's remind each other who it really is. Yeah, it's like... 20% with the highest incomes right now and here, and it is they who pay half of all taxes and taxes in this country. And what is the Social Democratic response? That is to take an even bigger chunk of the money that is laboriously earned. The social democracy will now introduce an extra inheritance millionaire tax, an inheritance top tax, which will affect the heirs of ordinary employees in municipalities such as Herlev, Gladsaxe, Ballerup, Lyngby, Hvidovre, Aarhus, Aalborg and Vallensbæk. Today, the real effective marginal taxation of capital, including inheritance tax, is already almost 100 per cent. But apparently that's not enough. The signal from S to the citizens is clear: If you withdraw at your house, if you save, if you invest in companies, then we come and take the entire return plus 10-20 per cent. extra. I think it's disrespectful, I think it's petty, and I think it's greedy. And that's the party that's going after the PM post. All this is done to create marginally more economic equality. However, the price will be that we all become poorer. That is why I would like to quote Sir Winston Churchill: "The inherited vice of capitalism is the unequal distribution of wealth, the inherited virtue of socialism is the equal distribution of misery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133344	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133349	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. Now it can be said that it is a tribute or a quality stamp when the rapporteur calls the policy put forward by my party a place of terror. I'll take that down positively. On the other hand, I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on the government partner, the Conservatives, this week. Is it characterized by the same harsh words, or where are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133419-2	Not at all. That is a fine move, which is certainly moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133428	Does the rapporteur think that we should be less ambitious or more ambitious than what the Conservatives have put forward that they will be for the coming year?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133442	We think we should be a little more ambitious. But that doesn't matter, because we have excellent cooperation with the Conservatives, with the Left and also with the Danish People's Party. And everything that moves in the right direction, we're in on it. We are putting forward our policy. It is an expression of how we think Denmark should operate if we had 90 mandates. That is what I think parties should do, and we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133515	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133520	Thank you. In the Economic Statement, which was published on Monday, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior of the Liberal Alliance writes and I quote: "The Government's ambition is that we should have both high employment and high productivity growth. That is why our reform efforts must go on two legs. We need to think both in new initiatives so that more people will work more and new initiatives so that we can get more out of our work. It will create greater prosperity and prolong the recovery. However, it requires a majority in the Folketing to be convinced by good arguments and to show a willingness to reform. ▪ In the Alternative, we are very happy to be persuaded by good arguments. But then they must also be about the main problems of society, and we, as a country, do not have a problem of prosperity. This can also be read in the Economic Statement. But we have a climate problem and an inequality problem. In the alternative, we believe that we must measure our social progress on the three bottom lines: economic, green and social. Does the rapporteur not think that the government should have more focus on those areas where there is indeed a problem, for example. climate and inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133626	I have just said in my rapporteur's speech that I do not believe that economic inequality is a problem in Denmark. We are one of the most equal countries. It is one of the countries where incomes are distributed more evenly. On the other hand, I think we have a growth challenge. Many reforms have been carried out. They have helped us to achieve higher growth, but at some point the effects of those reforms go out, and then we are left with the massive problem, we think that productivity growth is very, very low. This means that our prosperity development will be much lower than in the countries around us if we do nothing. And we can do that. I believe that economic progress is extremely important. It also creates political stability. It is, in my view, one of the purposes of sitting in the Folketing. It is taking initiatives that will give the next generation a better life with more opportunities than we have had ourselves. This requires us to act, and it requires us to carry out reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133727	Okay, I understand that the rapporteur believes that inequality is not a problem. So let us take the second agenda that I mentioned: climate. After all, we are in the midst of a galloping climate crisis, and the higher the consumption, the higher the growth we have, the greater the pressure on the climate. The rapporteur then believes that it would not be reasonable for the government to work to focus more on the environment and climate, for example. In an Economic Statement and in a Finance Bill, the climate impact of the actions was assessed and presented, so it was clear to everyone how growth affects climate stress?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133806	Personally, I do not think that is very important. We spend a lot of resources in Denmark on conversion. This year alone I think it is 1.9 billion. kr. We made an energy deal together. I think it's actually 7 billion. DKK, we spend on support for renewable energy in 2019. We have made an energy agreement together, and the government is very ambitious in that area. I just have to say that you have to be. But climate, like all sorts of other areas, is a priority. I know that the alternative will spend infinite amounts of money, but then the alternative must also be honest and say that then there is less money for cancer treatment, there is less money for education, there is less money for a lower tax, which means that it pays to work, that families have the opportunity to live their dreams, etc. There we may have such a rather more holistic view of how politics is to be conducted than the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133904	The next question is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219133907	Thank you for your speech and also thank you for the praise for the SR government's economic policy. I think the rapporteur is somewhat contradicting himself in this area of foreigners. For the rapporteur says that Denmark should be open to those who want to come and work, but we should not have more refugees. And then the rapporteur praises the agreement made by the government with the Danish People's Party, where you want to expel refugees who are in jobs and thus contribute to the growth and prosperity of Denmark. I do not really think it makes sense for the rapporteur to say that Denmark should be open to those who work when you make an agreement next to it, where you want to expel people who are in work. Will the rapporteur try to explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134002	Yeah, I'd love to. The refugee system should not be an immigration system. In other words, if you can see that the last 20 years have been nine out of ten who have come here as refugees, then it is an immigration system. What we want to do is to extend the arrangements that exist in order to get here from third countries and work. We have not succeeded in getting through this; that is not what a majority in the Folketing wants. I know, sir. Andreas Steenberg's party wants that, and I acknowledge it, but we have to split up refugees and immigrants who come here to work and get through the arrangements we have for it. And the refugee system should not be an immigration system. It will continue to be the case that you can stay here if you are here for long enough, if you are well integrated and do not commit crime etc., but we have to get more out, because the truth is that the refugee system is not a surplus business for Denmark. It's a very, very expensive business.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134112	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134112-2	I agree that it may be a good idea to send out those who have not wanted to be integrated and who are a cost. But with the agreement made by the government with the Danish People's Party, you will also send out those who contribute, who are in work, and you will attach the least weight, as stated in the agreement, that being in work should not count in relation to being able to stay. I think that is strange, because we may be in a situation where someone is thrown out of the country, and if the government and the Radical Left then came through with their international recruitment policy, the person could then be brought back into the country after being thrown out. It's kind of molboyish. Why should people who are at work not be allowed to stay as they contribute?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134159	That's because there's a difference between these two systems. It makes intuitively good sense what is being said, but you have to split up with the two different systems. Because the alternative would be to say as a fugitive: Well, I'm just going to Denmark as a fugitive, and then I have to work, and then I can stay. But that would mean that there would also be a lot of people here who would not achieve the objective that would not get to work, whereas on the other schemes it is people who have a contract with an employer before they come here. And that is where we know that they are all working, and that is why we have to divide up the two things. But you have to be honest and say that there will be examples of some where you think it would be unfair. But that is what happens when you are treated equally before the law, and we think that people should.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134244	The next question is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134248	Thank you. I have the problem that from down here I cannot see the Secretary of State's eyes. Well, now I actually see them, I couldn't do that a moment ago, but I'm gonna want to ask sir. Joachim B. Olsen, how stubborn they are. For now I can understand the answer to the question put by the previous questioner that the Liberal Alliance will at least as far, perhaps even further, in terms of tax reductions. Yes, but when the Finance Minister back in August, on 11 August to be precise, says in Berlingske that the Left is not going to election for tax cuts, then there is a small problem of counting to 90 mandates. And then I would like to hear from the rapporteur: how stubborn are those eyes? So, is that what you say before a choice is made, where you jump off the tree when you come on the other side of the election before the rest of us can say the word steel-stacked?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134341	We are fighting to get our policy through, we are fighting hard for that, and we also think we have come a long way. Taxes have been reduced for over 20 billion. kr. in this parliamentary term. One of the differences between this government and previous bourgeois governments is that these are real tax cuts. These are not tax changes. So we've fought hard. You may think that we have not always fought equally well, but for us it is the bottom line that counts, and that we certainly think we can be familiar with our efforts. Then, as you know, there is a government basis, that is what the government is working for, and there is a goal to reduce the tax burden. A government will work for that, but of course it has to go out and find a majority here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134429	It is a good thing that the rapporteur himself says the basis of government, because that is the very next question. How much does that government have to say for the Liberal Alliance to point to the Left to lead the government? The fact that we are fighting the best we have learned and everything else is very good, but it is not very concrete. So what does the rapporteur think? How many tax cuts do we have to get in before we say that the Liberal Alliance is happy and satisfied? I mean, is that at the level of what the Conservatives are up to here, or is that at the level of the Liberal Alliance itself? What is the rapporteur's position as a condition for re-voting to a Left Government? Because you hit drums very hard before the last election, and then you stumbled down the ladder in connection with the first Finance Act? Where are you on that ladder now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134521-2	We point to a Left Government; there is no doubt that we do. There's a little more doubt on the other side. I understand that there are several parties in Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil's side of the Parliamentary Chamber who will not point to Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil's President, but point to themselves. We point to a Left Government and welcome the government we are in. We are also pleased with the results we have achieved. For us, that is what counts on the bottom line, and then I think it may be a little funny that Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil is beginning to talk about government foundations and other things with the history that Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil's party had with the government base under Thorning there was not much of what was fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134608	The next question is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134612	It's a few people who get elected on what they have wanted. That's how it is more often, and it might be very good. We could understand that there was such a little over-class struggle in this the other day because now there had to be a bid over the who could give the biggest tax breaks. That's why it's a little interesting when we try to ask about it. Well, then, sir. Joachim B. Olsen not only give me one or two specific examples of where it is that the Liberal Alliance does not go far enough in the Conservative proposal, and, if so, what part of what is intended to be made an important part of future cooperation in a government should the mandates be given to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134653	Well, as I have said, I think that the Conservative People's Party's proposal is a very good one that is moving in the right direction. We have our policy, and what are those things that are important to us? But it is important for us that the registration fee should fall; it is important for us that the tax at the bottom is relieved. It is also important for us that the marginal tax should be lowered. We are always willing to do so, and I think there should be a majority in the Folketing to do so, because it is not a very wise way of taxing. This is an extremely large loss of wealth in terms of taxation. So we have our policy. There are a lot of taxes and taxes we would like to lower, and when there is a gap to lower one of them, we strike, and I think we have shown that we have been successful in this way since 2015 • even the registration fee has been lowered several times. The citizens seem to be happy about that. More and more money is coming into the box from the registration fee, and the Social Democrats should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134803	Social democracy is trying to find out exactly what it is you can expect from a bourgeois majority. Now I hear that there are good things on the shelves, but I also heard in reply to my colleague, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, that there was no intention of making any demands in advance. There was like nothing that would be ultimate because you would point to Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134829	Well, we've had that discussion. There will be no ultimate demands. We are going to work to get as much of our policy through as possible, and I think we have succeeded in doing so. We have succeeded in this too, because the Social Democrats can hardly make an advertisement without mentioning us and how much we can get through. I'd like to sign for that for thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134851	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134854	Thank you. I would really like to go back to something that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said in an earlier answer that was about the next generation getting better opportunities. I would like to ask the rapporteur how this is related to choosing to save 2%. Is it really a step forward that you choose to make such huge savings on the future or on what you might say we should live on in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219134926-2	The cost of teaching in this country has increased explosively over the past many years. It is true that there is a re-priority contribution, and the money has been re-priorityd and brought back to the field of education; perhaps not right back to what they have been taken from, but then to other places. And it's just a fact that if you're not willing to prioritize, there's just less money to do well with where you think it's necessary there's a boost going on. But when you look at the cost of teaching in Denmark, especially in higher education, they have increased explosively over the past many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135012	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135014	The reason for this, as the rapporteur ought to know, is that more students have arrived. So there's no more money coming in. This is why I do not think it is possible to say that we are talking here about huge expenditure. At any rate, it cannot be said that these are investments. Does the Liberal Alliance not even recognise that students, teachers, universities and professional colleges say they have too little money to do good education? Doesn't that make an impression on the Liberal Alliance at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135048	Yes, but when I hear it, I always wonder when they said they had too much money or enough money. Seldom does anyone say that. It is true that there have been many more students and the costs have also increased, and there I am just convinced that the last student coming in will probably not cost as much as the first student coming in, because the last student does not. Therefore, one cannot just say that one should have the same amount per. student, no matter how many there are, because of course there are economies of scale. When 50 people sit in an auditorium, it doesn't cost much to put the number down. 51 in there, as the first did.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135138	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135141	Thank you. Now it is sometimes a little difficult to find out whether the Liberal Alliance is climate denial or not, but I think the latest thing is that it recognises that climate change is man-made. One of the sectors in which we know we need to take action is agriculture. This does not mean that we should not have agriculture in Denmark. This means that we must have sustainable agriculture in Denmark. After all, it is a sector which is already financially supported through EU funds, which initially comes from Denmark, and then again has received a package of aid on top of the drought this summer. What does the Liberal Alliance think it takes in agriculture, which is, after all, huge tax subsidies today, so that we can have sustainable agriculture and meet our climate targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135235	But we certainly wish that agricultural aid could be disposed of. This is not something we support in any way. So that's number one. But the answer is, of course, new technology, these are new ways of producing, and there we are quite optimistic. We are not a Climate Denial Party, we have not been for many, many years. You can find quotes, yes, I even think by sir. Anders Samuelsen, from years ago, says that we are not. We're affecting the climate. For us, it is just important that we tackle this issue in a rational way, that is to say that we recognise that we have limited resources and that we must therefore try to address the challenges that exist in a rational way. We do not always think that this has been done in Denmark. There are also others with a good understanding of what has been said. Sometimes it is some very expensive methods one chooses. But the answer is probably new technology and research, and more money is being spent on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135342	It is true that there is a lot of research, there are high-tech stables around the country etc., and Danish agriculture is probably one of the most high-tech agriculture in the world. But we are also one of the countries that has one of the most intensively run agriculture and where emissions are just rising and rising. The fact that technology has to save us, we hear in many areas, it is the same with electric cars and so on, so we have to wait because technology comes at some point with a solution. But despite the fact that Danish agriculture has a lot of technologies, stables, etc., we can see that emissions just continue. Since we are doing so anyway, because it is not the policy of the Liberal Alliance to support economically to the extent that agriculture is going to be so, should we not make some demands that emissions should at least fall? Because if we do not do that, it is in all sorts of other areas that extra weight needs to be raised, for example. in the car sector, where I know that the Liberal Alliance would rather not place too much restrictions on people buying large and expensive cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135447	There is only the dilemma that always exists, namely that we have to find some balance where we do not move production, including agricultural production, out of Denmark and to countries where it is much less environmentally friendly than it actually does in Denmark. It's just common sense. And that balance has to be found all the time, because climate problems are global problems, and therefore it is no use that, in order to get a good feeling in the stomach, we are just going a hundred steps ahead of everyone else, which means that production, including agricultural production, is moving to other countries where we then get even higher emissions. I don't always see that balance on the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135533	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135536	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. In other words, as I know the basic liberal preacher, the state has the task of not taking the opportunity of free expression from the citizen. But one of the things that worries me in the Finance Act is the reduction of the integration benefit, which in concrete terms means that a single parent with two children after 3 years in Denmark has DKK 5,900. available per month 5,900 kr. So, I do not know if the rapporteur knows any single parent in Denmark who can live for DKK 5 900. a month. So does the rapporteur not agree with me that in this way the state is taking away the citizens' freedom of expression? For whom on earth should be able to live for DKK 5,900. a month? And that is potentially also in violation of the Constitution.So, of course, we need to check if it is. But how can one, as a liberal who is interested in giving the individual his freedom, think that it is okay that one should live for 5,900 DKK. a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135647	But it is quite right that individual freedom is what liberalism is all about. But there is no conflict between being liberal and cutting these benefits. For those services are funded by other people who are forced to pay, and thus a slap in their freedom is being made. It is true that the benefits are low; there is no reason to hide that. And we think this is a good thing, because the level of benefits means something to the influx of refugees into Denmark. And especially in view of the fact that we can see that it is an expensive pleasure for Denmark it is 36 billion. kr. Every year, it costs us to get the influx down, and there's this one element. But despite these low benefits, or perhaps because of them, we actually see the positive thing in these years that employment is increasing for refugees; it is even increasing quite significantly. And there we just think that we have no problem with people having very low benefits for a few years if that means they enter the labour market and become self-supporting. In fact, we believe that social policy is the right thing to do. And there's just a difference between our two parties. Where you prefer people to go around passive support, which increases the risk of a large number of other problems, we prefer people to enter the labour market. And you can't say that there's no connection between the two things that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135825	It was kind of a strawman, wasn't it? After all, we do not prefer people walking around on passive support, but we would like people to have a basis for looking for a job, to be able to buy some clothes when you have to interview a job, to be able to make a daily life work, so that you actually have a surplus to look for a job and not only have to worry about getting food in your mouth at the end of the month, or that your children do not thrive in school or have no decent winter clothes on, or what do I know? Well, that's the balance it's about. I fully agree that there must of course be an incentive to look for work, but that is the balance, and it seems crazy that you have to go so far down that it is called DKK 5,900. a month. I agree that it is good, very good and cadeau to the government for having got more refugees into work but it is hardly because the benefits are low, but probably because they made the Igu and the Tripartite Agreement, which actually has boosted that development. So I just have to ask again whether the rapporteur can imagine that as a single parent with two children in Denmark you can live for DKK 5 900. a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219135923	Well, I have to say that logic is not linked, because benefits have been cut and employment has increased. I am not saying that is all that matters, because it is not, but it contributes positively to increasing employment. Then I must also say that I think that when you come here as a refugee you get money, you get a share in public spending, which is also of great value, we treat people very well. But we're not gonna be crazy. Well, we shouldn't be naive, considering that it also matters how many people come, how much you get. There we then have a political desire to reduce the number coming to Denmark, and we are slowly but surely in the process of achieving that. The influx this year is the lowest in 10 years, and we think that is really good. They are low benefits, but you also come from outside and have never contributed to Danish society, and the money you get is paid by others who go to work and otherwise pay the world's highest tax and, for a very large proportion, hand over over half of their income to the municipality and state.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140039	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140042	Thank you very much. And thank you for your speech. Once upon a time there was a party that was founded in Denmark that said: Enough is enough. This was said because one was tired of the excessive influence that was perceived by the Danish People's Party on Danish politics. That is the party that has developed into the Liberal Alliance today. And when you look at this financial law and in general over the last few years, I just have to say that what started as a watchdog in relation to some sort of bourgeois decency has become a lapdog for the Danish People's Party. If you look at the finance laws that have been made, you look at what this party accepts, then it's amazing that that was what started out as the New Alliance a few years ago. It's a sad deroute. You can just take Lindholm, I can hear that the Liberal Alliance is very concerned about the conditions of our business, about growth and exports, and I just want to ask a simple question: what does the rapporteur think is most negative for Danish growth and exports and for our reputation: the waste fee that has been abolished here, or the stories that have been running in the world press about the new desert island for refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140151	Well, the stories that have been running in the press have no bearing on Danish exports, Danish growth. By the way, I find it incredibly sad to see that several members of this Parliament have gone to the international press and have completely distorted it and not told the whole truth about that island. So I find it really sad that in this way you want to put your own country in a bad light to promote yourself. Yeah, I hardly have a word for that. We're fine with this island. The cost is not as high as what is being said. Because we are actually very honest here, we count everything with expenses that are not spoken to at Kærshovedgård, i.e. the cost of police etc. And I just have to say that the people who are being put on Lindholm are people who have seriously abused the hospitality they have been met with, the confidence they have been met with. These are people who have committed violence, violence with the result of death, rape. They must be dealt with within the principles of the rule of law, and they will be. My sympathy doesn't get that far. We shall deal with them within the framework of the constitution, within the framework of the conventions. We want to know where they are and we want them separated from the others at Kærshovedgård, where there are also commonly rejected asylum seekers. It can, for example, be done. be a gay man from Ghana, and we don't think he should live with an Islamist, a foreign warrior.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140327	The Liberal Alliance tends to be a parrot for the big business organisations, and now there is this reputation that Denmark has got with the jewellery law and most recently with the island. And if anyone talks about it with two tongues, says Berlingske today, it is the government that tells one thing at home and one thing abroad. But let's just look at the financial amount of almost 800 million. kr. I mean, per. refugee, I can read in Information, the price is considerably higher than a luxury suite on D'Angleterre. The Liberal Alliance tends to care a great deal about the citizens' money, at least that is what they say, and I am not talking about the Secretary of State's office. But spending so much money on this virus island couldn't have been spent more sensibly, for example. Back in the citizens' pockets?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140421	Well, if Enhedslisten thinks that refugees should live on D'Angleterre, Enhedslisten must about it. The consideration we have here is that we want to shield these people from the rest of society because they have seriously abused the trust and hospitality they have been shown. These are deep, deep criminals who have destroyed other families. And in the costs of Lindholm, the cost of the police has been taken into account. They won't be at Kærshovedgård, and that's why the price is going to be so high. But if you include the same expenses for those who are at Kærshovedgård, they will also be higher. But yes, of course they are a little higher, but that's because we have a political desire to have them shielded, get them away from the others who live in Kærshovedård, too, because they don't all deserve to live with these people. So we're fine with it. And as a Liberal, it is also believed that the task of the state, in fact the main task, is to protect citizens from bandits and criminals, and that is what we are doing, to the extent that we can, with this proposal. We're fine with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140533	I would remind you of the speaking time so that we can reach as many people as possible. The next question is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140540	Thank you. I understand that the Liberal Alliance agrees with the tax proposals and the content of the Conservatives, which is why I would like to ask: how about the funding of the various initiatives, for example, a stop to access to the early retirement scheme in 2021 and the abolition of the senior job scheme? Is the proposal that the Liberal Alliance agrees with?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140615	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140626	Are there additional areas where the Liberal Alliance wants to finance more tax relief? In other words, do we want to reduce public spending further in relation to what has been put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140647	Yes, we do. We have the world's second highest public spending. We think the money would be better spent by staying in the pockets of the citizens so that an incentive to work and invest etc. was created. We believe this would actually increase the well-being of our citizens. And now that we have the Productivity Commission's word for a Productivity Commission set up by Mrs. Julie Skovsby's former government that there is a productivity potential, an efficiency potential in the public sector of 10%, we just think that we should make use of it before spending more money. We think that is good and common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140732	The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140735	First of all, I want to congratulate Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and the Liberal Alliance because it seems to the Liberal Alliance that very important proposals to ease the tax on private aircraft have come through in the Finance Act. This must clearly be something that some people are extremely concerned about. I personally do not know anyone who owns a private aircraft, but it has to be something that you think is very important. I would like to follow up Mrs Skovsby's question. If this is the case, then, before using any additional resources, what does this mean in relation to the health reform that we must expect the government to play out? Is it a health reform which, after Mr. The point of view of Joachim B. Olsen and the Liberal Alliance should not be financed with resources from, for example, the room for manoeuvre, but should only be financed by making structural changes and making staff run even faster?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219140841	Thanks for the rose. I don't even know anyone who has a private plane, or I wish I did. That's not what this is all about. It is about the fact that there are some aircraft, including corporate aircraft, which are registered in other countries, and that is where we think they might just as well be registered in Denmark. It is the same with regard to the tax on pleasure boats. After all, money has been set aside for a health reform on this financial law. I think there's a total of 500 million. kr. has been set aside, and we support that wholeheartedly. There is, of course, the big misunderstanding when you think that the fact that the public sector can be operated more efficiently is something that we then have the words of some wise people for • does not mean that you cannot prioritise in individual areas. This does not mean that there are no individual areas that may need a boost. We also have this in our own plan, which also takes account of demographic trends. Yes, there are some places where there will be more older people, and of course there will have to be more money, but when it comes to total consumption, there is an efficiency potential, and we just want to exploit that. In view of the fact that there is such a high level of public consumption in Denmark and that there are other considerations, for example: We also believe that if we take so much money from the citizens of Denmark, we are really making an effort to ensure that they are spent effectively, we believe that we have a duty to do so. And since that potential has not been exploited, we think that we should start using it before spending more money on public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141033	If I remember the amount allocated next year to health reforms alone, it is 120.5 million. kr., so I think, sir. Joachim B. Olsen's reference is to the summing up figure over a few years, but I don't want it to take us apart. Nevertheless, when you look at the past years under the current Prime Minister, four more employees have arrived in the health sector and over 50,000 more patients have arrived. Is this an expression of the way in which the Liberal Alliance also believes health policy should be conducted in the future, in other words that it is a very, very limited number of additional hands that will have to deal with the many more patients who will be coming in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141118	The figure I referred to was an accumulated figure over the years in which I think it is approx. 0.5 billion kr. After all, there are various measures in this Finance Act to increase staff, and I believe that 250 more doctors and even more nurses are being admitted, and there is good reason for this, and we fully support that. I just want to say that the story that tells us that higher productivity means that you have to run faster, that is not right, and Mr. Benny Engelbrecht well. It is often the case that when productivity increases, labour satisfaction also increases, because you use your resources more sensibly, and where you run really fast and you do that in some places it may also be because you can organize the work differently. In Copenhagen, where the Social Democratic Party is responsible, one must at least note that the administrative costs have exploded. And has this provided a better service to citizens? When you read the daily press, at least there's no sign of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141233	The next question is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141236	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur something relating both to health and to taxation. After all, the Finance Act has decided and I am aware that the rapporteur's party likes to have reduced taxes and taxes to lower the tax on beer and wine, although Denmark is the country in Europe where most young people get drunk and although we know that alcohol in youth creates the basis for a later alcohol abuse. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that the price of alcohol is a determining factor in how much children and young people drink.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141320	Yeah, that's definitely what it's all about. Charges work. They also seem in such a way that they get very high, drive people across the border and buy the goods there instead, and when they cross the border they actually tend to buy even more than they would have if they had been able to buy the goods at the same price in their home country. I think we all know what I'm from Jutland, so I know that when we cross the border, the trailer gets filled up. I guess I'll buy myself more than I'd otherwise have done. But then I have to say that most, by far, the vast majority, actually have a sensible relationship with alcohol and can manage it, and that is actually something that increases their quality of life. There are probably many parties that have had Christmas lunch in the last few weeks and have had a little to drink, and then there will be a good party, and we just think that it is also a consideration to take. Alcohol problems are certainly serious, but they must not always be controlled by higher taxes, which then go beyond the huge majority, who can actually find a way of having a sensible consumption of alcohol.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141437	Now my question here at first was specifically related to children and young people, and it is probably not most 15-year-olds who cross the border, and that is probably not often what you see. Now the rapporteur is using economic arguments in relation to cross-border trade for why the tax should be reduced on beer and wine, but it is, of course, very costly when we have citizens who have too much alcohol consumption. We have about 3,000 deaths a year from alcohol-related diseases, and health costs are 2-4 times higher among people with alcohol problems, so could it not be interesting to look at that figure, i.e. that it actually costs a great deal of money to have citizens who have too much consumption? Instead of always talking about border trade, you might think about the health of young people and their future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141537	Yes, alcohol abuse is a serious matter. I just note that by far, by far the vast majority, in other words a huge main party, have a sensible consumption of alcohol, and there is alcohol in one way or another something that increases the quality of life. Then you can have the attitude that the problems of the very few then have to be solved with high taxes, but that would not even solve the problems. These are extremely complex problems, which are often all about everything else, and they will not be solved, even if we banned alcohol, but in fact may make it even worse. That is the balance of various considerations that we must take. We have very high taxes on these things today, and it hits the huge majority, which has a sensible consumption of alcohol. And, yes, there are some who have problems with alcohol abuse, and it is always super tragic and sin for the people and their loved ones, but it is unfortunately so complex that it cannot be solved simply by taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141644	Then we came to the last questioner in this round, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141649	Thank you. This is, of course, the last financial law with this government, and other years I have also asked questions about the Liberal Alliance's commitment to care for the elderly, which unfortunately was never really followed up with resources that could at least keep up with demographic developments, that is, the fact that we are getting more and more elderly. The Liberal Alliance has pointed out on other occasions or the other years that debureaucratisation was the solution and the answer to the problems of care for the elderly. And a very large coal excavation study has also been carried out to point to debureaucratisation. It showed that there wasn't really anything to come for. So I am actually a little interested to hear whether the Liberal Alliance itself thinks that they have achieved the goal of better care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141740	Well, I think we have come a very long way, and a great deal of money has also been spent, not only on this financial law, but also on some of the previous financial laws. In other words, we have an elderly minister who has been very, very honest and said that money is not just what does it; that it is other things. It is my feeling that the opposition was not particularly cooperative when it came to debureaucratisation. I have to say, and it stands at my own expense that I am personally surprised that some of the organisations that have talked a lot about debureaucratisation did not come up with a great deal when they were given the opportunity to play. And I cannot help thinking there that perhaps they had other considerations, political considerations they took rather than the interests of their members. Because when I talk to their members, they think that there are many things that could be better done, much that could be debureaucraticized, but when it reached the unions, they thought that there was not so much. Yeah, that's where you have to think.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141845	It is true that at least a great deal of money has been spent on finding solutions. Well, the coal excavation report was one thing. I should just like to point out that it actually pointed out that there was an opportunity to debureaucratize, that is, to try to do away with all the transaction costs associated with outsourcing, but the Minister said: no, no, no. So we still have a chance to look at that. However, according to the priorities, it is interesting that more than 700 million have been allocated. kr. on the Finance Act to an island. It is well above the amount that the government allocates on the same finance law to care for the elderly. How does the Liberal Alliance feel the priorities are linked right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219141927	But these are two different figures that cannot be compared. I mean, the 750 million. kr. is not a permanent expense. There are some establishment costs associated with storing some hard-boiled criminals and shielding them from other citizens. By the way, I have not seen such a forest of hands, even in this hall, to say: place it in our municipality. We have had to make a choice, and that choice in the Liberal Alliance is a fine choice; we should have a third exit centre. However, the other expenditure is permanent expenditure, which is far, far greater because it is expenditure that takes place over many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219142005	I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and we are moving forward in a series of rapporteurs to Mr Liberal Alliance. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219142014	Thank you for the floor. I am here today as the financial rapporteur for the alternative. However, as some of you may know, I am also rapporteur for nature, the environment, energy, supply and green conversion, and that is probably what I consider to be my primary area of work. In fact, I have had that for many years before I joined the Folketing. I have been working with the sustainable transition for 25 years as an employee both in the private sector and in the public sector at a research institution and also as an environmental policy adviser in civil society, in the Nature Conservation Association. Yeah, I've been around a lot. All my adult life I have fought for the world and for the climate and for the environment. Now, here in the Danish Parliament, I am fighting both as rapporteur for green conversion and now also as rapporteur for finance. And if there's something I've learned, it's that things are connected. The green transition must be multidisciplinary. Indeed, it requires that we transform all sectors of society, that we change the way we live, organise and transport ourselves, that we develop a more sustainable economic model. We're a long way from that yet. But it's just getting started. Because even if it costs crowns and ears, it will only be even more expensive if we wait, and it will be our children and grandchildren who will then be stuck on the bill. Unfortunately, I think that is exactly what is being done with this draft budget. You pass on the bill, you leave it in the nursery, as you say, and thus you really neglect the opportunity to take the responsibility that is needed. Now, if we cut right into the leg, this deal is mostly about alien tension and not so much else. I will say something more about that later, but first I would like to say a little more about the lack of green investment and ambition, because that is actually what concerns us most in the alternative. Unfortunately, this is not just a Danish phenomenon, this with the lack of green ambitions. The climate summit in Poland was not the success that the world really needs. Admittedly, some small steps were taken in the right direction, but there is a long way to go if we are to achieve the 1.5-degree target of the Paris Agreement. Here one should also note that the world is going to change significantly even at 1.5 degrees. For example: 70-90 per cent. of the world's coral reefs disappear. The same will happen for a number of countries and islands because the seas are rising. Millions of people will be deprived of clean drinking water, while others will be driven by natural disasters, famines, droughts. As I said, it is if we reach the 1.5 degrees which are not realistic with the current climate plans. The truth is, we're really, really busy. The climate crisis is already changing the world as we know it. It is no longer just something that takes place in Greenland or at the North Pole, and it is not just something that we can read about only in reports and long analyses. No, the climate crisis is here, it is here now, just close and far away, it is everywhere, and we increasingly feel it on our own body. Just think of the summer 2018: forest fires in Europe and the United States, warmer chords and the wild weather in Denmark, the drought, the yellow lawns and crack dry kitchen gardens and the heat waves that cost 250 people in Denmark their lives according to the Statens Serum Institut. In fact, all that was said by my predecessor, Mrs Josephine Fock, at the first reading of the draft budget, and I will say more of the same again today, because the need has not diminished, on the contrary. Greater ambition, higher climate targets and more green investments are still needed. In fact, an unprecedented high level of ambition is needed in the world's governments if we are to achieve the 1.5-degree target. That is why it is very important for me to make it clear that it is no longer a question of doing something enough.We are not doing enough today, either in Denmark or in the world, but we could do that. We could certainly do much, much more, because we have both the knowledge, the economy and the support of the people. If it were the alternative that had had the power of government, then the draft budget would have looked quite different. First of all, we would have used the opportunity to create a new green superministerium, a Ministry of Green Conversion. There was to have a Minister for Nature, a Minister for the Environment, a Minister for Climate and a Minister for Global Green Conversion, and then it had to take over the dominant role of the Ministry of Finance, so that the starting point was sustainable development rather than economic growth. Then we would also have kick-started the dismantling of oil and gas production in the North Sea and set a target to build a large offshore wind farm per year. We need this if we are to succeed in achieving the Alternative's objective of being fossil-free by 2035. All in all, we would actually invest another 80 billion. kr. in a green transition, if we had had the power of a historically high amount, yes, but also an amount that we have funded in our government programme by bringing forward the pension tax. Of course, that would not be a free round, and that would of course mean that there were other things that we could not spend the money on. If we compare with the government's agreement, there would probably not have been money to lower the price of beer, wine, aircraft or pleasure boats or to relax the inheritance tax if we decided. But, frankly, we do believe that citizens can do without that when the money is going instead to future-proof the planet and society as a whole. On the other hand, I believe that the citizens will find it difficult to do without human rights. I would like to say a few words about human rights, or perhaps more about the way we meet and treat refugees and foreigners in this country. The point is, of course, that parts of the financial bill here are about the restrictions on foreigners. But the reason is also that human rights recently reached 70 years of age. On that day, many politicians were ready to highlight the importance of conventions for democracy. For example: I saw that the Minister of Finance was out paying tribute to human rights on his Twitter profile. I thought that was really fine, but I must also admit that I was a little confused. Just as I agree with him when he paid tribute to human rights on Twitter, I disagreed equally deeply with him when he was on television a few weeks before, cheering over his financial law, because it goes to the edge of the conventions, perhaps even further. How can we pay tribute to human rights one day for such a short time after expressing joy at challenging them? I'm surprised. I do not understand at all this trend in which it has become almost a success criterion in itself to challenge the conventions. Does this mean that I am surprised at the content of the draft budget? Well, in many ways the government is merely pursuing the policy that it has pursued for several years, a policy in which, with all the means, jewelry laws, integration benefits, etc., attempts to reduce the conditions of refugees and foreigners. There should be no doubt that this is a policy which is of great concern to the Alternative. And we are certainly not the only ones. The concern is shared by the United Nations, the International Cooperative, the Institute of Human Rights, lawyers, human rights lawyers and professors, by political parties such as the Alternative, the Enhedslisten, Radicals and the SF, and by citizens who walk the streets and demonstrate against the view of people that also permeates this draft budget. One thing is that you spend a hell of a lot of money putting some people together on an island and whether it is unconstitutional, I do not know, but it is certainly not very sympathetic. Another thing is, and I think it is actually worse, that at the same time people choose to reduce the conditions of refugees who are already among the most vulnerable in society. The fact is that this agreement takes money from some of the people who already have the very least. They are not the ones who benefit from tax reductions on pleasure craft or aircraft; they are the ones who live in favour of integration, for example. the single breadwinner, who in future will have to cope with 2,000 kroner. less a month. 2,000 kroner. So there's a lot of money. It is not something you just burn off on a pair of shoes, at least not if you live on the integration service. If you do, it's something you spend on food, on medicine, on your children, on covering other basic expenses. And if the money isn't there, yes, then there's no food, no medicine, no money for a child's birthday. Honestly, I think it is absurd to try again to reduce the level of these people. We think this is completely wrong. Why increase the risk that there will be more poor people in Denmark at a time when we have hardly been richer? We have enough money to roll back the integration benefits and the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. We also propose this in our government programme, and so we do not need a commission to tell us that we should do so. The last time we had gathered for a major debate here in Parliament was probably for the opening debate, and shortly before that Kim Larsen had unfortunately passed away. It threw, among other things. Some good quotes from my colleagues, and on top of my speech here today I also just want to be inspired by that experience. That is why I would like to end with a slight rewrite of a wonderful Kim Larsen quote: what good should a government do if it is not to help the weakest, but also the generations of the future and the climate? For the richest and present generations will be fine. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219142952	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219142958	Thank you to the alternative, and welcome as the financial rapporteur. It's always good to get fresh blood in the circle. Now it is known that the alternative will not support Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister. You ask with your own prime minister candidate. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to reaffirm that it will be the case that no mandates are given to a Socialist Prime Minister. And next, I would like to ask: What is the cause? What would a prime minister candidate from the Social Democratic Party deliver to the alternative before, if necessary, it would be possible to consider supporting Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143036	We point to ourselves because we are the only party that is ambitious enough. If we can't form government ourselves, but that's what we point to, we point to our leader, Uffe Elbæk, as Prime Minister, we set our mandates free. We are releasing them from the policy of blocs and free from political alliances, free to work for the policy of the alternative. In other words, we are setting the mandates free to work for the green transition, for a serious sustainable policy, for greater equality, for respect for human rights and for all the things we have in our government programme, on a case-by-case basis with all those who want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143120	So it is a confirmation that the alternative will not at any time support a social democratic government with Mrs Mette Frederiksen as prime minister. Either it's called Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk as Prime Minister, or you will be free to vote on a case-by-case basis. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143139-2	That's correct. We're not holding hands under any government. We point to ourselves and should things go so wrong that we do not take the lead in a government ourselves, we do not hold our hands under any government. We use our votes on a case-by-case basis to work for our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143157	The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143201	Thank you, and thank you, to the rapporteur, for a speech that had a great deal of emphasis on the climate crisis, which is indeed serious. Another serious crisis, which I am sure the rapporteur is also aware of, is the biodiversity crisis, in other words the extreme loss of species that we are facing. In Denmark, we have 2,262 species of animal and plant species on the red list. That is to say, they are threatened to some extent. 369 of them are in fact critically threatened. The government hasn't really got to grips with this, let alone with this financial act. Does the alternative think you could do a little more in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143251	Thank you for the question. This is certainly an area for which we think a great deal needs to be done. The climate crisis is in our world number one. It is the most urgent, but right after it lies also the natural crisis, one might call it, or the crisis in biodiversity. We saw the government being out recently delivering 0.4 percent. more nature in Denmark. That's bad, not at all enough. If it is up to us, we will, for example. free the entire state forest from forest exploitation. We will take land out of agriculture, the so-called low bottom areas, and have them transformed into nature and a number of other measures that can turn the decline in biodiversity in Denmark into a rise. And then there must also be international work on that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143344	I'm glad to hear that. After all, the government has pointed out that precisely with the 0.4 per cent that you want to set aside for untouched forest, you will do so so that it will actually only enter into force in 2065 - i.e., I can hardly count that far - it will be well over 30 years. We are there, where the government saw before it is laid out for untouched forest, will empty the forest of resources, that is to say, cut down all the old tree, which is going to lie in the forest and provide biodiversity, make sure that there are mushrooms that can transform the tree and give life to small animals and things like that. So does the alternative have any such clear answers to how we do it faster than the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143438	Well, I totally agree. It is amazing to see what the government has put forward on this point, because it is in the very long term and it is very small areas we are talking about. What you have to do instead is to take a decision in principle to remove the entire forest area of the state from rotation, which is 18 per cent. of Denmark's forests. There are still 82 per cent left which can be used for forestry in private forests. But some of them will also be relevant to make nature in. In this way we will have much more nature, and I am glad we can work with Enhedslisten on this, so that we can create much more nature in forests, for example. and over a much shorter number of years. I'm thinking something like that could be released over a maybe 10-year period or something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143521	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143522	I am very concerned about the economic policy of the alternative, because I think the alternative has gone very, very far to the left in this particular respect. The alternative will include: have a weekly day off, which, as far as I remember, will cost a few hundred billion kroner. The alternative will also not pick up the last oil from the North Sea, which strikes a hole in the box of just over 100 billion. kr. When such an economic policy is pursued, I find it difficult to see that the alternative will be able to afford to make the massive investment in climate and in green conversion, which the rapporteur is making a very good speech about. How do all these promises made by the Alternative relate to the fact that a great deal of money is really going to be spent on new initiatives, especially in the area of climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143622	Fortunately, sir, I can reassure you. Andreas Steenberg says that we have a fully funded proposal for a so-called financing plan for our government programme, and in it we are moving around at a great many billions, but expenditure and revenue are going up. So we've thought it all through. I can mention that what is our biggest bet is the 80 billion. kr. to the green transition, and we have found them by pre-taxing pension funds. This is a proposal that has been pointed out by the wise men in a different context and which is actually a recognised solution. In the situation we are facing today, we need a great deal of money to kick the solution to the climate crisis that is right here in front of us, and that is why we see this as an extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143720	The rapporteur is just not answering the question. I have read the economic plan of the alternative and there is no funding for the weekly day off, and there is no funding to close the gap created by the policy of the alternative on North Sea oil. Only yesterday, the alternative also agreed to create a state bank, and it will also cost a great deal of money, but there is no funding for that plan either. So there are some big holes, and where will the alternative find the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143752	I wonder a little what the questioner is saying here. Our plan even has a certain surplus that we can work on, on proposals that should come to, and we have not translated all of the 80 billion. kr. in activities so that some of them can probably be used for it. With regard to the North Sea, I would say that I think it is greatly overestimated how much we can earn in the North Sea, even if we pull up all the reserves that are known out there. But we are not going to do that either. Science tells us that we can't pull more than 20%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the North Sea reserves are well known, and that must be a premise for all governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143835	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143837	Thank you. The alternative sometimes comes with some proposals on taxes in various areas, for example. last meat. SF agrees in the direction we need to change our consumption, the way we eat, our agriculture, the way we transport, etc. We must take action in all areas. But I am a little surprised when there are such spotty tax proposals, because it is not the meat that you want to tax, but CO2 So instead of having a meat tax, an air tax, an avocado tax or a jean tax, and I am not making fun of it, because that is all something that contributes a lot to CO2 2 That is the one question. The second question is: levies often have a social imbalance. It is they who have the least that are most affected by it. So, in order to ensure a social balance, what will the alternative do to ensure that it is not those who have the least to pay for the green conversion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219143959	Thank you. First to the easy, which is the hardest, i.e. the taxes. It is true that, instead of putting them on all these different products, which I admit is a little hassle, but it is to show that there is a high climate load here, and that we should therefore also put in here, the simplest thing would be to introduce a CO2 but it is something we have in our book; it is a dream scenario for us to be able to put a price on CO2 To the second question about the social battle side in relation to taxes, I would say that this is the case with all taxes on tobacco taxes, sugar levies and so on. etc. And, of course, if you take our overall proposal, in which we also roll back a number of poverty reforms, you can see that it will be the case that people want more money to go into the supermarket. There will then be a few commodity groups, for example. That is what we want to see, and that is what we want to see. halving the VAT rate on fruit and vegetables too, so that the product groups will be cheaper. Overall, you will have more money to do well with if you are in a low-income group.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144116	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the first answer. I agree that this is not easy, but I am glad to hear that the alternative also believes that this is the most objective path to take. In relation to the other, we agree that we need to eliminate poverty benefits and so on, so that that group will also have more money, but, overall, there would still be a social imbalance. In the SF, we believe that we should move towards increasing the green cheque, as it is called a little popularly, in other words to compensate people for the extra cost of the absolutely necessary taxes that are required in a large number of areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144159	I am glad that the questioner mentions this, because doubling the green cheque is also one of the things that lies in our repertoire and thus in our programme. We propose doubling the green cheque and thus giving more money to those with the lowest incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144218	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144221	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I would like to touch on the same subject as my colleague Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen mentioned the alternative's desire to point to Uffe Elbæk as the negotiating leader. I think it is very admirable that we are hoping to have enough mandates to gain power for ourselves. I have great respect for that, because we are all in politics to achieve what we ourselves believe in. But if it happens that the alternative cannot find the majority alone, you have to find someone else to point to. What, then, are some policy areas to be emphasised by the Prime Minister's candidate in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144300	Yes, it is true that we are pointing to ourselves and to Uffe Elbæk as Prime Minister's candidate. Should that not be the case, we will have to see what happens after a choice, because we are freeing our mandates from alliances, free from block policy, and so they are free to work in all our policy areas. And there is nothing specific we are not interested in or only interested in. We have presented a government programme and all the things that are in it and more things will be in play in that type of negotiation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144335	After the last election, we had the pleasure of concluding an agreement on a temporary housing job scheme together with the alternative. We thought that was a very good course of negotiations. Is it a similar process of negotiation that the alternative is expected after the next parliamentary elections, where you go very openly into the negotiations and you can see yourself across what the rapporteur himself says is block policy, or will you pour more into those you normally vote most with, which is a red block, and what is needed to point to a Social Democratic Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144406	We're not going to point out other prime minister candidates than our own. However, we are going to look positively at proposals similar to our own policy and we are going to vote against policy which is far from what is our policy. I do not know whether the housing job scheme is a relevant example, but it is true that there we went in and were in some negotiations and said: if we can do this sufficiently green, we can join in, otherwise it is uninteresting. I imagine it's something like that, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144438	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144440	Thank you. I see that the finance rapporteur has asked a good question here on 3 December, which reads: "Will the Minister present a comprehensive overview of the greenhouse gas reduction and increase in greenhouse gas in the 2019 Finance Act?' I think that was a very good question, because then we could consider whether those economic proposals also had some negative sides with an increased CO2 were some things that were moving in the right direction, and therefore we should not only give priority to economic considerations, but also on the basis of whether it had a reducing CO2 then I think it is a little disappointing that there will then be an answer that has come last night, but I have seen it here today, when it says that we are not able to count the figures together, and then we have a long list of things that are pluses and minuses in the big calculation. I would like to know whether the Financial Rapporteur for the Alternative is satisfied with the late and inadequate reply that has come from the Minister and whether the rapporteur can see that there are some ways we can work on it here towards next year's draft financial legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144555	But I am not satisfied at all, and I am not, especially because there are no ideas taken out of thin air. That's one of them. OECD, which is working on this topic, how to make a green balanced account and include all aspects of green policy and climate policy, etc. It is also something that lies in the UN Sustainable Goals for 2030. This is something that is being worked on in a great many official circles, and I think it would be obvious and appropriate if the government and the Finance Minister said: we are now fully integrating this into the work on the Finance Act in the future. That would be our proposal and our way of working.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144649	Thank you. That makes sense. We have to work with a new government on that, I think. Then I think it's easiest to get it in place. Now on another subject, this one with the meat tax of DKK 17. per kg. Honestly, that's not very well thought out. I would like to know why the alternative will free half of the Danish beef production from a levy, because the Danes only eat about half of the beef produced in Denmark. And then the other half is exported. So we have a huge climate load in Denmark, where Danish consumers can pay a tax, and if they buy the chopped cheap beef, they can pay relatively much compared to the rich who buy the beef tenderloin. Can the rapporteur not see that there is a gap in the proposal when only half of Danish beef production is to be taxed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144738	Our proposal is a start. We don't think it can solve all the problems that exist. Our proposal is focused on the need to reduce the consumption of the meat with the greatest climate impact. Then we will also have to reduce the production of meat, and these things will have to go hand in hand, but there will also have to be a number of other measures. As we have previously debated in this Chamber, we have a very large meat production in Denmark, and much of it goes for export, and the problem and the climate strain that lies in it must also have been looked at. But I think it works best by using other tools. So this is about consumption, and we start with red beef.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144820	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. As a service information: It is common to send any complaints about ministers to the Bureau if you wish to complain. We'll take the next rapporteur, and that's sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219144839	I would like to start by quoting the Prime Minister: Denmark is strong. Since the elections, employment has set a record record: 146 000 more private employees' jobs. In 98 of the country's 98 municipalities, a larger proportion of citizens have entered work. Prosperity has grown by over 9,000 kroner. per Dane. ▪ That's what the Prime Minister said when he opened the Danish Parliament in October. Now we write December, and it is time to take stock: How does Christiansborg use the good times? If we look at the finance agreement, the answer is: cheaper beer and wine, private aircraft, light typhists, an asylum island and 17 DKK. more a month to the most disadvantaged pensioners. There is far too little about how to curb climate change, far too little about how to ensure our children a better future, far too little about how to safeguard our welfare in the future. This is what happens when the Danish People's Party is allowed to decide. Radical Left finds it difficult to see how this agreement brings Denmark forward, solves problems, creates a dignified old age and provides equal opportunities for all. We will vote in favour of the Finance Act at the third reading, but we will use the debate here and later the votes on the amendments to indicate which direction we would have liked to have seen. The Prime Minister says that the government is fighting for a freer Denmark, but when it comes to action, year after year savings are made on education and new educational ceilings are rolled out most recently on international students. Education is our country's raw material. It has created our prosperity, our competitiveness and the very equal society we have. We know that education leads to employment. That is why the annual savings that threaten to lead to the closure of institutions and training in rural areas and, in general, to a deterioration in the quality of our education are absolutely pointless. Educational savings take opportunities from people, not least in our rural areas. We're sawing in the branch we're sitting on. We want to invest more in our primary schools, kindergartens, crèches and day care. It is in our common children's institutions that children's lives are shaped, where they play where they learn and where we break the negative social heritage and make people the best version of themselves. But there are simply too few adults who are too little money to raise standards. We can do better than that. A freer Denmark starts with massive investment in our children and young people. The Prime Minister says the government is fighting for a richer Denmark. I wish the Prime Minister had met Saad, whom I met at the Lion Pharmacy in Herning a few weeks ago. Saad is Syrian fugitive. He fled because as a pharmacist he had helped the opposition to the dictator al-Assad. In Denmark he has first taken the pharmaceutical course and probably soon takes the course as a pharmacist. He works and has learned Danish. Although both the Left and the Social Democrats say they are in favour of integration, both parties have allowed themselves to be dragged around in the chain of the Danish People's Party. With the so-called paradigm change, refugees must now be sent home and rebuilt their country, even if they have been integrated. So the Left, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party will force Saad to go home to Syria and rebuild a dictator's regime. If one is democratic and has a bit of common sense, it would be logical not to go to Syria and rebuild a dictatorship and a dictatorship with a dictator using poison gas against his own people. But common sense is obviously not a commodity at the moment. It screams to heaven that we lack labour, and then you make a financial law where you want to expel people who are in work. The government has in vain tried to get the Danish People's Party to help companies recruit foreign workers. DF said no and now also forces the government to expel foreign labor, which is it is simply too stupid. Since 2013, according to the government, 30,000 non-western immigrants have entered jobs. When you lighten the tax on beer, private aircraft, yachts and spend more money in hospitals, this is due in particular to the contribution of the many new Danes who have entered jobs. Now you want to expel even those who are in jobs with this paradigm shift. Radical Left is against. A richer Denmark starts by leaving those who can and will Denmark here. We need them. The Prime Minister says the government is fighting for a safer Denmark and then spends 750 million. kr. symbol politics in Stege Bay, even though the citizens of the area are frightened from their senses. More money is spent on an asylum island than is spent on solving climate change and improving our nature, in this finance law. It screams to heaven that the government has no more ambition compared to the threat climate change poses to our children's future. We saw the other day that the Danes are driving more and more by car. In the Radical Left, we are not opposed to carism, but we would like to see more carism on renewable energy. But even though the Prime Minister in his opening speech set a nice and ambitious target of 1 million green cars in just 12 years' time, the government could only deliver 1,000 green cars a year when it had to be traded, because that is what happens when the Danish People's Party decides. At this rate, it will take 1,000 years before we reach the Prime Minister's goal. Our kids can't wait for that. The 2019 Finance Act was a golden opportunity to find real solutions to the problems of reality, to find the courage to use the good times to solve the major problems that do not disappear by themselves, and to create a greener, freer, stronger Denmark. Instead, we ended up with symbol politics. The Danish business community needs labour. Radical Left will make reforms, let foreigners who can and will come to the country and work, and we will invest in education. DF forces the government to the exact opposite. Children and young people need good education to achieve freedom and jobs. Radical Left will invest in schools and education and kindergarten. The government and DF chose to do exactly the opposite. Our planet needs us to adjust and use renewable energy to a much greater extent. Radical Left will invest massively in tax restructuring, especially in our transport sector. The government and DF are doing exactly the opposite. We have lost a golden opportunity to spend the good times on more than just symbolic politics. With those words, I can say that the Radical Left is tabling a number of amendments on which we will vote later and that we are voting against the amendments tabled by the government and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219145714	Thank you. The first to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219145720	Thank you for that and first of all thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. As far as foreigners are concerned, we may not be able to disagree more than we are, but I do have a great deal of respect for the fact that we are also in favour of the policy that we want to pursue. That is why I would like to ask the Radical Left, who has said that it will not be pointed out to a government governed by social democracy if they do not change the policy of foreigners, at least that is how we understand it: how does the rapporteur now view the fact that the Social Democrats are beginning to back up the agenda that has been going on for several years? We wanted to tighten up the immigration policy, but now we are starting to back down, we are not going to vote for a third exit centre, we are not going to vote for a reduction in the return grant, that is, the previous integration allowance. Is this a positive sign from the point of view of the Radical Left, which has already said that if we do not roll back some of the restrictions that have passed over the last parliamentary term, there will not be a Socialist-led government with the votes of the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219145815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219145816	Thanks for the rose. It is quite true that the Radical Left will only be the basis for a government if we can vouch for the direction of a government, and this is not just about the area of foreigners, but about politics in general. Tomorrow we will be voting on a matter that I am very concerned about, namely the possibility for Danish citizens to have their spouses and spouses' children here. There, the Social Democrats choose to vote against our proposal, so I think I can say calmly that I do not think we are fully in favour. I understand that the Social Democrats are voting yellow, that is, neither for nor against this refugee island, asylum island, and frankly I do not know how to interpret it. We need to see what some negotiations lead to at some point. We would like to take the families of children out of Soulsmark, and then you could use that barracks to wear these people, and then you could totally save this money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219145912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219145913	Thank you. But from the point of view of the Radicals it must be seen. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye was out in the press saying that this is spot on a desert island is exactly what we have wanted since 2000; then the Social Democrats were the first to make the proposal and now we have heard here from the Parliament's platform today that the Social Democrats do not really know what they think about it. I mean, what was a really good idea a few days ago, you can't vote for it. Do you not think that this is a clear signal that we are moving in the direction of the Radicals, in other words that we are relaxing the foreign policy that has otherwise been expressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219145954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219145955	No, I'm not actually taking that as a signal. I take this as a signal that it is not possible to decide, and we in the Radical Left cannot really use that for anything. We want a government and support a government that decides on some things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150011	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150012	One might almost be tempted to say that it should be in the radical optics to weigh for and courage, but I just want to follow up on what Mr. René Christensen asks. Because when the rapporteur of the Radical Left says that we cannot vote for a government if we cannot radically support the immigration policy that that government should be pursuing, I think that is honest talk. Does this mean, now that we are talking about a third exit centre on Lindholm, that this is something that the Radicals say is not a policy that we can vouch for and should not therefore be part of a future government programme? Does this mean that the amendment also tabled by the Radicals that we should roll back, for example, the benefits of integration, in which the Social Democrats have indicated today that we are also voting yellow here, is also something that we must have as an admission, so that we can vouch for the immigration policy and thus vote for that government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150107	We will be voting against this asylum island later this afternoon or tonight. We think it's a waste of money. There is, after all, available capacity at many of the asylum centres you have, and we think, as I said before, that the families of the children in the Soulsmark Boxes should be allowed to get out of there, and then you could use that capacity for those people instead of spending 750 million. kr. to set up an island. So we are against this, and we will of course demand that too. Then Mr. Jacob Jensen also said that there is going to be a debate and that compromises are going to be reached and compromises are of course to be found, and so is the Radical Left. But it goes without saying that if we are to support another government, we will also have some things going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150153	So that is the confirmation that the foreign policy which the Social Democrats at least say they want to pursue is not going to happen. It has to be moved in some way or other, whether it is the island that has to go, or it is in relation to the cash aid and the former integration benefit, which is now going to be called something else, or something else, that needs to be radically changed in the foreign policy before one can radically support such a government. Is that understood correctly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150220	That is quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150224	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150228	Thank you for a good speech, in which, of course, there was something we can absolutely agree with on several points. But there are also some serious differences between our parties. The Radicals may be the party here in the Folketing, where you are most eager to raise the retirement age, so that was understood correctly. And that is probably the most important source of funding at all in the 2025 plan of the Radicals. I do not think I can convince the Radicals that it is inconvenient to the hundreds of thousands who enter the labour market early and who, for that reason alone, do not get as many good years after working life as the radicals' core voters. But perhaps the rapporteur can answer: what will all the hundreds of thousands of people live on, who will be forced out of the labour market in the coming many years when retirement age is raised, long before they reach retirement age, while at the same time looking at all the reductions in early retirement pensions, early retirement pensions, sickness benefits and cash benefits that the Radicals themselves have helped to implement? The question is quite simple: What should all these people live on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150336	I think that this is a very important critical remark which Enhedslisten makes and which we have also discussed several times. In Radicals we have taken on board the LO's proposal for an extended scheme on what is called a senior early retirement pension, as Mr. Finn Sørensen knows well. After all, not many people today come up with that scheme because it is too difficult. And the proposal from the LO, which we have simply copied, is that you should be able to enter a senior early retirement pension on a medical certificate alone. That is why we believe that we have met the criticism that many radicals also have, even though they are not in that pay group, because there are many radicals who think of others than themselves and made a special arrangement for the people who are worn out, but at the same time we also say that the people who can must be extra years in order for us to have a greater socio-economic situation to invest in children and young people and welfare and climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150433-2	Thank you. I think the rapporteur is reducing this problem to the most worn out. This is not just about wear and tear, it is all about justice in the matter of how many good years you can have after working life, that is to say, a senior life, until you scratch off at some point, which is inevitable for all of us, but in which there is a very great inequality, when you look at the population's average life expectancy divided by the quarter with the lowest income and the lowest education and then the second quarter at the top. In the case of men, there are approx. Ten years of difference in life expectancy. After all, it is a fundamental injustice that will contribute to and cause hundreds of thousands of people in the coming years, as the retirement age is raised, to be forced out of the labour market either because they cannot keep pace without being particularly worn out or ill or ready for early retirement or because they have not received the necessary training. These are two main reasons why many unskilled workers have left the labour market long before retirement even today, when a quarter of the 3F members have gone out of the labour market before they reach the age of 60. So my question is, what are all these people gonna live on? It may well be that you improve some senior early retirement pensions. We are all involved in that, and I sign for the Radicals' proposal here, but that doesn't solve that problem at all. After all, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people as the retirement age is raised. So the question is again: what should the whole group live on, which cannot just get a senior early retirement pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150619	The whole radical group has had a meeting with the NNF, a trade union for the slaughterhouse workers, and it surprised me very much how much lower life expectancy a slaughterhouse worker has than many of us. That is why I understand the question put by the questioner. I believe that the proposal made by the LO and Radicals will solve this, because many of those who are worn out and will be able to come up with the scheme we are proposing are also those who have a reduced life expectancy. So I actually believe that our proposal will resolve what the questioner is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150656	Sir. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150659	Now the rapporteur asked me about the North Sea, and I would also like to ask about the North Sea. We have been extracting oil and gas from the North Sea for many decades now and it peaked a number of years back. Today we are down to about a third of the production we had when it peaked. It's going steady and steady downhill. After all, the rapporteur's party is included in an agreement where additional investment has been made and tax rebates have been granted and will extend the extraction of oil and gas, find new deposits up to 2050 • 2048, I think it is called, or something like that. When I listen to climate science, there is quite a broad consensus that 80% should be charged. of the known reserves remain in the ground. So you can only extract 20 per cent. So when I go in and look at GEUS' inventory of what we have left of known resources and divide it by how much we usually pull up a year, it's quite a few years we have left if we're going to live up to this 20%. Does the rapporteur not agree with what we have in mind, namely that a resolution plan should be drawn up over perhaps ten years and that it should be done steadily and calmly at a reasonable pace and thus fulfil its obligations in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150818	I should just like to point out that the view that costs over 100 billion. kr., which I think the alternative should take and indicate where to remove into the welfare society. That's what I asked, sir. Christian Poll about. In the Radical Left, we think it is better for the climate and the environment and for the working environment that the oil that will be consumed is extracted in Denmark than in a developing country. We have seen some examples of the extraction of, among others. coal, which has taken place in a quite horrible way. So we think it's better that we extract the oil that everything else is just going to be used, and then it's going to give this over 100 billion. kr., which we could then spend on green conversion instead of cheaper planes and asylum islands, and what else is in this financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150911	Yes, but now it is not just us who are allowed to extract only 20%. It is the whole world that can only extract 20 per cent. of the known reserves. That means that everyone has to move in this direction. And then I don't think the 100 billion. As the rapporteur points out, the water is maintained. We have proposed a rapid phasing-out of about ten years, and there I think the North Sea is actually taking us anyway. I mean, in ten years, there won't be much more to push out of it. So we are in the situation that no matter what it is a powerful overestimate of how much money we can pull out of the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219150954	But we cannot finance the salaries of doctors and nurses and high - school teachers and primary school teachers with Mr. Christian Poll's belief that what the Ministry of Finance has figured out is wrong. In the Radical Left, we believe that we must reduce our consumption of fossil fuels and we are looking for demand. But when there is a demand for oil, we think it is logical that we should try to extract what we have. After all, we have already made a great deal of investment, which is why we might as well take up the latter and earn the money that we can then spend on green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151028	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151031	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's openness, for the fact that it is felt that the Social Democrats should move forward before the Radicals can point to the Social Democrats. I'd like to drill a little bit more in it, because how much is it exactly that needs to be moved? Is it just one small thing, or is it the case that you think there should be a major shift in foreign policy with a different sign than at present?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151057	Of course, we think that our policy should be implemented, that goes without saying. There will be a parliamentary election before the summer and how much luck the Radical Left can have in getting through with our policy depends initially on how many votes we get. But I can confirm that we are going to have a major shift in foreign policy. We think it is bad that companies cannot be allowed to recruit international labour; we think it is bad that Danish citizens cannot have their spouses and spouses' children in this country, even if they have done nothing wrong; we think it is bad that with this financial law we are going to deport people who are So we are going to have a marked shift, but it is the voters who must decide first whether they want to give us a mandate to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151144	After all, it is always the voters who decide the composition in here, and I guess you always hope that you get a complete majority, so that you get all your policy implemented, but it may not be so likely for any of us that we get it. That is why it is also relevant to ask, because we can hear that several other parties do not necessarily point to the social democracy as the negotiating leader, but the Radicals do, and that is why the Radicals have to know in some way that they can count on the Social Democracy before they start pointing to them as the negotiating leader. So what's it gonna take to get to where you can point them? Because that has to happen before you come to a government basis, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151221	Mrs Schack Elholm says something very important, namely that the Radical Left points to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as the negotiating leader. In other words, we would like to have a debate, and then, of course, we are going to get the most out of that debate, and if we do not feel that we are doing so, we are of course not going to make that one Prime Minister either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151241	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151245	I've been inside looking at the Radical Left's 2030 plan. It's got the name "Freefood." It's a very interesting plan. There are also many good things in it. But when I looked at the end of the plan, something was missing. A table was missing because no financing of the plan was provided. This puzzled me a little, because when we make plans in the Enhedslisten, we always make a lot of sense that funding comes with it. If you look at our plan, our 100-day plan, which is called 100 days with Enhedslisten, you will see that there is a 42-page methodology with which we describe exactly how we finance the plan and how we have calculated ourselves to see it so that everyone can see it. So I was wondering about that a little bit. But what really worries me in this context is where the money should come from. Following on from the question which Mr. Finn Sørensen asked: Is it again the retirement age that needs to be raised? Is it again the sick and the unemployed who have to pay? In other words, who is going to pay for this time for the many good initiatives that are being taken in the 2030 plan of the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151350	Actually, we haven't made a 2030 plan. We've made an economic 2025 plan. But I'm actually quite happy that Mr. Rune Lund asks, because I can then use the question to say to my group that we must have completed the work on our 2030 plan. For Mr. Rune Lund is quite right in saying that we need to present the overall economic policy, and we will of course do so before an election. As I also discussed with Mr. Finn Sørensen, we still believe that we can start to phase in the already agreed increase in retirement age more quickly, so we have more money to do well to invest in children and climate and education. And then we'd also like to make this special arrangement for people who are worn out. Because it is a problem that we simply raise the retirement age without taking into account those who simply cannot work so long. So we come up with a plan, but it is correct, as Mr. Rune Lund assumes that it is still our retirement pension scheme that is behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151455	I look forward very much to the funding of the plan coming. It was in the middle of September that the plan was presented, and now three months later the funding has not yet arrived, but we look forward to it. What worries me a great deal is that the senior early retirement pension is for people who are worn out, but when you just raise the retirement age to 69 years it will be raised to that by 2020, if the welfare settlement, as it is so beautifully called, remains in force and is not terminated before the end of the year, it will mean that people will have to work until they are 69 years old. In other words, the Radical Left imagines that if you really do, for example. is a slaughterhouse worker, can work until you are 69 years old? Because one thing is that you can get on some kind of senior early retirement if that scheme gets good at some point or other if you're completely worn out, but you don't have as a slaughterhouse worker, for example. the right to have a good life in old age, where you have energy, time and profits for example. to be with the grandchildren after working life? Well, we live for more than just working, and when we stop working, hopefully we should not be so sick and worn out that we can hardly be with our grandchildren. In other words, what are the considerations of the Radical Left here? And what kind of funding is it for the 2030 plan, in addition to a higher retirement age, that can lie ugly elements of here? I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151619	We are, of course, considering what Mr. Rune Lund forgets to mention that people are getting older and older. And then I think it is quite logical that we should have a discussion in the community we have here in Denmark about whether, if you get it is a thought example 5 more years in life, then 5 years is a pension, or whether you also have to contribute some of the years, so that we can solve the climate challenges and solve the social challenges we have. That is where we think it is right for those who can stay longer in the labour market, and then we have to set up a system for, among other things. The slaughterhouse workers, because I don't think they can work until they're 69 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151653	I really would have liked to have given Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau the word " and I see we can do that now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151704	Thank you. It was just such a follow-up to the issue of North Sea oil. It is difficult for me to understand precisely the answer and the reasons for how North Sea oil can finance green conversion. Something's conflicting there. Perhaps I would like to expand on that. Could you, for example, do that? instead of using that funding go into something with gasoline and diesel taxes? Could that be an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151738	The reason why you get money out of the North Sea is, of course, that the oil and gas that are being extracted are being sold, and that has been taxed, and that then provides income. There's a reply from the tax minister to Mr. Rune Lund, who claims that over a number of years it amounts to 100 billion. kr. If you do not want to extract oil and gas in the North Sea, I think it will be extracted in other countries, so I do not think it will have the great climate effect. But that will certainly have the effect of missing the money in Denmark and in the Danish economy. I find it difficult to see that taxes on petrol and diesel can be raised accordingly. After the calculations I have seen, it is very difficult to get more money out of it, because it will happen that a lot of people will drive to the border and buy gasoline and diesel, and then you won't get the big income out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151828	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151829	I still don't understand the whole argument either, so that if we don't do it, then there are some others who do it in and out, as was mentioned before, that all countries just have to go along. I believe that other countries feel that they also feel that they would prefer to be the ones extracting oil, in other words, as the rapporteur says, namely that it is probably best that Denmark does. Do not all other countries also think that it is best for them to do so? So instead of all of us, we could not be, or at least turn it down as science recommends.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151905	But all countries just don't. After all, over the next many decades there will be planes and cars around the world that use gasoline and diesel, and then I think we might as well be able to extract it. Moreover, we are also better at extracting natural gas and oil in relation to the environment and climate. So I think that's a good idea. And if you choose not to do so, you need 100 billion. kr. in its economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151933	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219151937	Thank you. The Radicals always make demands in negotiations, we all do, and I remember before the 2011 elections that the announcement by the Social Democrats and the SF was that the fiscal policy that the two parties had put forward was a new red government tax policy, no more and no less, and there could be no change to a comma. The Social Democratic Party forgot to take an oath on the Radicals. The question is whether we are not seeing things happen again. The promises flow out into strife from the Social Democratic Party, and the funding is a little airy. But there are places where we have made agreements, namely the Left and the Radical Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, among others. on a business and entrepreneurial package. There are, among other things: introduced a share savings account that has introduced an investor allowance, and we have also agreed jointly that those limits should be increased in order to attract more capital to our entrepreneurs. The Social Democratic Party is now going to vote to abolish it. I just want to hear from the Radical Left whether the Radical Left stands by the agreement reached between the Radicals, the Danish People's Party and the government, or whether the Radicals will support the Social Democrats' proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152102	We stand by that agreement, of course, and we are not going to agree to roll over the initiatives that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen mentions, back. We think these are good initiatives that we believe can help create more entrepreneurship, more new businesses and more jobs. I would just like to make the final comment that I hope that history will repeat itself, and I will say to Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, for in 2011 we got a new government, and the Radical Left got 17 seats. So it would be quite excellent if it could be repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152129	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152131	We are then those who are actively working to ensure that history does not repeat itself in this way. However, we certainly need to think the scenario to the end, also in relation to what is being said in the coming months in the run-up to a parliamentary election. In this context, it is only important to know how the parties that the Social Democratic Party expects to support to some extent relate to the things that the Social Democratic Party has put forward. I would like to know whether some of the other tax increases put on the table by the Social Democratic Party are some that the Radical Left can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152206	Now I think that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen should have been a little more specific, because we are in the situation where the Social Democrats have put forward a great many proposals for tax increases, and I do not have them all under control. However, those we have seen in this so-called inequality are not in favour of, because we believe that employment and job creation are at risk. If we want to discuss inequality, we want to call on the Social Democratic Party to discuss the benefits of integration, the ceiling on cash benefits and, by the way, the housing tax, which is one of the main causes of inequality. So no, we won't roll back those tax elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152242	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152246	Thank you very much. When I think of the Radical Left, there is an issue which, like any other question, is more pressing than it is, and that is: what is the Radical Left really doing in a red block? No matter which page you are looking at, you will have a strict immigration policy, and if you look at us, you will also have the reform-friendly economic policy you want. So what exactly are you doing in a red block?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152313	What exactly is LA doing in a government where DF is in charge of you? If we are to pursue an economically responsible policy that our two parties agree on, we must include either the Danish People's Party or the Social Democrats. If you look at it historically, it is under SR governments that an economically responsible policy has been pursued because, among other things, we have. has negotiated us for it. That is what we are going to try to do again. We hope, of course, that we can change the picture that Mrs Christina Egelund paints by having a good choice and making a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152348	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152350	But the difference between the situation of the Radical Left and the situation of the Liberal Alliance is, of course, that if we look to the left, there is, like, no good alternative. In return, if you look to the right, there's a great alternative. It is fair that the rapporteur does not want to give a clear answer, I understand that, but it is just to encourage reflection. You could use Christmas holidays or New Year's holidays to think about it, and then we could talk about it again on the other side of New Year's.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152419	I would always like to speak to Mrs Christina Egelund. I do not think that the current government is a particularly good alternative. I would also like to say that I believe the great difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left is that the Liberal Alliance gave up its policy in order to get into government. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152435	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152438	I saw the rapporteur sticking to the economic policy of the alternative somewhat in arm's length. I am thinking, then, that I should like to make it clear that we have at least delivered some finance proposals which have been financed and, of course, we believe that there is also a surplus on the bottom line of the economy. It may be that we want to take a different political stance on whether or not we believe in what we are doing; it must also be completely free from the rapporteur. But I know that we share many views with the Radical Left, among others. in the green area. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether he would like to take part in the debate and the decision that, if he is given the opportunity, he should have a national account with three bottom lines, i.e. a green bottom line, an economic bottom line and a social bottom line. It could be that we had a slightly more joint analysis of what it was that was needed to make profits on all three bottom lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152533	We'd like that. When we formed the SRSF government in 2011, we set ourselves both some green goals, some social goals and some economic goals • e.g. targets for reducing poverty, targets for reducing homelessness, targets for how much ecology there should be. And I think it would be perfectly logical to do that again. For that government was working with the three bottom lines. Unfortunately, there were a number of bottom lines we didn't have to deliver on because we didn't get to the end of it. But we would very much like to do that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152609	In this work there will surely also be implicit criticism of the • or at least a re-evaluation of the calculation models used today. There are at least some effects where it is difficult to create quite a lot of substance on the social bottom line, and also the green one, if you do not make some changes. It is a question, and it is a hope, that you may take your arm back a little and not make such a distance from the economic policy of the alternative. Because it often becomes a framing that we have not actually really understood how to calculate. We do, but we also have a desire to change the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152641	I think the alternative can be calculated. I just pointed out that the alternative proposal is much more expensive and underfunded. I still think they are. There is a discussion under the auspices of the economic wise men about trying to develop the calculation models. I think that would be wise, but I will, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted once said in a debate, animate that the arithmetic models would like to be some we share so that they would not be politically elected. But there are, in fact, many economists who are already suggesting that you should go in and look at them and change them. I certainly think that should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152714	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152715	I think so, too. I don't think that's a secret. But that was something else I wanted to ask, because I could understand that the radical side does not support these proposals that the Social Democrats are playing with, for example. a higher tax on income from shares. I understand that it is such a bourgeois basic idea that it should, like, be work that pays off, so that it is okay that you get rich with hard work. So my question is really just: is it not a little strange that we are taxing incomes from having money lower than income from work? Shouldn't it be the case that the money we make by getting up in the morning in sleet and snow and cycling to work every day was taxed lower than the money we get from having money, i.e. returns on investments, which are typically hugely unevenly distributed, because some have a lot of money, for example. because they have inherited, or because they have had fortunes, and that gives them some big rewards? I simply do not understand, even on the basis of such a more bourgeois thinking, why capital income should be taxed lower than our income at work. So why not make a switch and raise the capital income tax and then instead lower the tax on labour income and others?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152844	I think it's a really good idea to lighten the tax at work. I fully agree with Mr. Pelle Dragsted in, so I think it's starting to look like something. But it is not true that we have very low capital taxation. Capital taxation in Denmark is very high, at least marginal taxation. And it goes without saying that we are not voting to roll back some initiatives that we have just voted for and reached agreement on. So, of course, we are not in favour of it. Then I just want to say that this thing about you getting tax relief just for having money isn't right. You do something with the money; you take a risk with it, for example. to invest in an entrepreneurial business and be willing to take that risk and willing to lose the money. That is why I think it is quite right that we should get an income from it if we manage to drive that business forward. Then you have not just been sitting on your hands, you have also done something about the money and perhaps been inside and involved in the company you have invested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219152941	It is of course like the idyllic image that is described there, but if we look out into the world, and it has such an economist as Piketty described very well, then we can see that really large parts of the revenue • what makes people rich • is not hard work, but returns on money. It's money that makes you rich in this world, not hard, honest work. If we taxed capital income at the same level as income from wages, we have a response from the Ministry of Finance about • we could bring a little less than 7 billion. kr. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Using them to lower taxes at the bottom by increasing the base allowance, we would be able to give people with low incomes in this country, the store assistant, the warehouse worker, a significant tax relief. Wouldn't that be more fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219153031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219153032	I am also very concerned about the inequality we see worldwide. I just think you should be careful to take that discussion down to Danish level. Because if every country in the world had had the tax system that Denmark has, it wouldn't have had the inequality around the world. That's the answer, sir. Pelle Dragsted mentions, I haven't seen, but I'll see to that. At first glance, it sounds like a proposal which, from our point of view, will very much affect job creation and the level of investment in Denmark and thus make it less jobs in Denmark, and we are not interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219153107	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219153139	It's going amazingly well. That must be the theme of today's speakers from the government parties and from the support party. It's going amazingly well. And it's also soon Christmas, and it could be really nice to go on Christmas holidays in high spirits. Unfortunately, not everyone can look forward to Christmas carelessly. 64 500 children are now growing up in poverty, and they and their families cannot afford to celebrate Christmas as many of us can. That's even 12,000 more than just last year. Christmas aid has broken new records, and there is not even enough for everyone. Is it a record to be proud of? Is this one of the key figures that, overall, leads to an unbelievable success in Denmark? Our children and young people are stressed, and there are too few adults for too many children in our day care facilities. This autumn we saw on the social media many educators with a sign saying: Today I am alone with 15 children or 19 children or 21 children. Our day care institutions are underfunded, and the government doesn't seem very concerned about it. In any case, welfare investments are not included in this Finance Act. Savings after savings have influenced our education. This applies to youth education, professional education, VE education and to our universities. It may be a very healthy exercise to do once or twice, but when it is year after year, the core performance is affected: that our children and young people receive world class education, that we get research that can contribute to new businesses; that we have to make a living in the future; that we have to help solve some of the major problems facing the world; and that we do not get research that is solely dependent on private funds; and that we ensure that those in need receive the training they need. Education is our raw material. We are even hearing this from the Prime Minister; he even said it on the very day that the education ceiling was introduced. But savings on education are getting even, and it's coming soon, and whether you're red or green or purple or blue, we should be able to concentrate on that. But no, the headless savings continue with this government and with this financial law. Once you have lived a long and good life, hopefully, you have the right to the care that we tell each other is a cornerstone of our welfare society. All too often, older people do not receive the care or care they deserve after a long life. The government has a support party that would like to be known as the protectors of the elderly, and in financial law some money has indeed been earmarked for specific actions in the area of the elderly, but it is a smokescreen when, at the same time, there is no investment in welfare just to keep the level we have today. In other words, it is a bluff when you give a little with one hand and take even more with the other. Inequality is increasing in Denmark, quite significantly even. We hear from the Liberal Alliance that economic inequality is not a problem that the left has made up. Tell it to the families who are queued to get Christmas help, tell it to the children who grow up in poverty, where there is no money for a pair of football boots, tell it to the refugees who are already living on such a low level of integration that you cannot actually live on it. But they're gonna need a little less, because they're gonna need 2,000 kroner. less to live for. We have the Rockwool Foundation's word for that because you can't live for it in Denmark. But the inequality is not only seen in those who have the least. The richest run away from the rest of us, too. They are gifted with tax relief targeted at the richest. The richest corporate heirs in this country also received a huge gift from the government after extensive lobbying. Inequality increases in these years, but it doesn't have to be like that. It is the result of political elections and we can change it if a different political majority is elected. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. It is actually an understatement of dimensions to say the challenge, because we are facing mankind's greatest disaster. We attend climate summits where the government promises gold and green forests, but nothing really happens at home. Yes, that's right, we've made an energy deal, and it's good, and it's fine, and I think we're all happy with it. But to be honest, it doesn't have much to do with the big score. We need a binding climate plan, we need to transform our agriculture into sustainable, we need to take action on transport. But nothing comes from the government. The Prime Minister stands here on the platform promising 1 million electric cars by 2030. That is very good, but it is a free round when it is not followed by action. 2030 is in no more than 12 years' time, and how do we achieve the targets? By making a deal that gives 1,000 electric cars? That is equivalent to a day and a half of the sales of petrol cars! The government is proud to have made registration fees on cars of three laps. I think the Liberal Alliance is most proud. At the same time, charges have been put on electric cars during the time the government and the former Left Government have been in power. Yet you're surprised that no electric cars are being sold in this country. It's very strange. This is particularly true of a government that believes in incentives. You raise taxes on electric cars and lower registration fees on petrol cars, and then suddenly we find ourselves in a situation where there have never been more petrol cars in this country and on these roads before. It's very strange, very strange. The former chairman of the Climate Council spells it out for the government. I quote: It is not satisfactory for us to slow down the rate of greenhouse gas emissions reduction as much in the next decade as has been planned. We need to take action across a broad front, and then we just have to get started. Peter Birch Sørensen, former chairman of the Climate Council, said so. He was not allowed to continue, and the government seems to have been dissatisfied with the fact that he and the Climate Council allowed themselves to point out what is true, namely that the government is too slow to do what needs to be done to achieve our climate goals and to live up to what we ourselves signed up to in the Paris Agreement. Fortunately, it may be that someone is actually following the screen today and has not left yet, so I would like to say thank you to you, you who demonstrate, you who make your opinion known, you who tell us politicians that it is urgent, to children and young people who ask why they should go to school when we risk their future, to those who stand out in front of Christiansborg every Thursday when we meet at work, and say: What do you really think you are? You're sitting in there stalling while the disaster just approaches, because we don't have time. It is not an impossible task, it is not an impossible task. The Liberal Alliance is laughing, but maybe you should listen to those who demonstrate out there. It is not an impossible task; it is only if we continue the status quo. However, we can do things quite differently so that we do not put our children and grandchildren's future at risk in the way it looks right now. We must strengthen prosperity, turn up green ambitions and give each other more calm, and then we must put an effective end to the policy that means that thousands of children in Denmark are growing up in poverty with far worse chances than their peers. With our financial bill we have made such a proposal; we also make amendments, we will vote on later on creating a more equal Denmark, where everyone has the chance to join in. Because it should not be our wallet that determines whether we can get proper care when we grow old, a good treatment when we get sick or world-class education when we go to school. That is why we have set aside 200 million in our draft budget. kr. more for nursing staff at the hospitals, and we have money for permanent teams in the care of the elderly. Our children and young people must have more peace, more educators, smaller classes and more time to develop at their own pace, and there must be room for not always going the straight, targeted path. That is why we have set aside the necessary funds for a class ceiling of 24 pupils in the classes, for abolishing the education ceiling and for abolishing the re-priority contribution. Similarly, we must do much more to calm down and avoid the stress we see spreading in jobs, among our children and young people and among the unemployed. We must invest in the working environment and give everyone the opportunity of a dignified withdrawal from the labour market. In our proposal, we can afford to add 100 million to the Factory Inspectorate. kr. Next year already. At the same time, we must turn up the green ambitions significantly. There must be more room for wild nature, we must take far better care of our drinking water, and then we must have an overall climate plan that will show the way, not only here at home, but also internationally. That is why we have set aside 1 billion in our draft budget. kr. to nature and the environment and 1 billion. kr. for climate action. Finally, Denmark must take its international responsibility for the refugees most in need of our help and, once again, start taking quota refugees. All this and more are fully funded, and it can be read on our website. So we show in black and white that a completely different way is possible. Things are going unbelievably well in Denmark. For some, and if you focus on some ratios! But development is biased, inequality is rising, climate is failing, welfare is limping, and too many are being set aside. It is actually a failure of dimensions when we have all the prerequisites. We're a rich country, and we can do better. We show this in our draft budget. However, this requires a new political majority, and I hope the voters will remember that when we go to the ballot boxes next year. I will conclude by quoting Villy Sørensen: it is good that we have got better, but it was better if we had been well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154300	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Before we move on to the questions, I would like to say that the way we have arranged the Chamber now means that if you stand in the middle opening and talk small with your colleagues, the opening seems like a funnel, and the talk goes straight up here and distracts the speakers. We don't want to do that. We think they should be given maximum attention. So I would like to recommend that if you need to talk and it can be important negotiations and everything you can sit down just like the two colleagues who sit there or stand right behind one of the pillars, because then the sound is not so disturbing. We'll be able to have a quiet conversation in here. It was just a practical piece of information, because it was about to get out of hand now, while Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen gave her rapporteur's speech. The first question comes from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154351	Thank you for that and also thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for her speech. I would just like to ask the very specific question of immigration policy, which is also part of the financial bill, and the now very much mentioned island of Lindholm, where a third centre of exits for criminals expelled asylum seekers is to be established: how does the SF feel about this question, and how do you see the social democrats in that question, when you are told here today that the Social Democrats intend to vote yellow, that is not to say whether you are for or against? Is it as the SF experiences it, a move on the part of the Social Democratic Party, or is it just a tactic? So that is two things: what is SF's position on this issue, and how do you experience the social democrats' act by voting yellow?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154438	In fact, I hope that some people are watching out there, because I think this debate has also been a little mythical, and it is good that we are at least in agreement on what we are talking about. I hear many people say, "Criminal aliens, such and such." And I actually often meet people who think these people should be on an island instead of being in prison. It's not an excuse for what they've done. I think it's one of the most unsolidaristic things to come to a country and then commit serious crime... but this is just to solve it. Because there are actually a lot of people who think that it is instead of going to prison. These are people who have When you can't go out for different reasons, you are on tolerated stay in Denmark. We in the SF think that it is a good idea to separate those who have to be expelled as a result of a conviction, because they have committed crime in many cases very serious crime from those families of children or others who have done nothing but simply have not been allowed to stay in Denmark. So that separation we think is a good idea. When you have chosen an island where it costs the box to clean it and it will take a long time before you can even move some there, you think: Why that island? Is it because it can then be said that some people are going on a swine fever island like this, or what? Our point is that it is a very, very expensive solution. We would much rather have seen another solution that was not so expensive at all. But separating these people from each other is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154621	Now the rapporteur did not quite answer my second question, fair enough, about her assessment of the actions of the Social Democratic Party and the barn, that is to say, that you choose not to take a position, but that, as for tactical reasons, you choose not to speak for or against. However, something similar applies to an issue which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has also tabled, namely to withdraw the benefits of integration, as it is no longer called but we know what we are talking about. How does Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen feel about the fact that the Social Democrats here too choose not to speak for or against? Does she experience that it is a move towards what the SF really means, when, after all, one does not say that one will support the government in this, but that one moves in the direction of going from voting green to the government's proposal to now voting yellow, and that the next step must then be to move over with the SF in order to roll back the integration benefit to the higher level that was under the former SF-led government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154714	I do not want to stand here and be some puppet to answer on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. The Social Democrat rapporteur has been up here answering those questions. I would like to answer what we in the SF will fight for. We will fight for quota refugees again. We will fight for no-one to live on such an inhuman, low performance that both the current integration benefit and the self-reliance and repatriation benefit will come down on. Actually, we think it's a mess. People living in this country don't have to live in such miserable conditions. The Rockwool Foundation has said that you cannot live for so little money in Denmark. It's fine to have a strict foreign policy. We can easily discuss who should be here and who should not be here, but when it comes to those who are here, I simply think that I should not take that word in my mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154807	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154810	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. There has also been a lot of talk about this demographic move and how much money is being spent. The rapporteur and I also had a small discussion on this in connection with my rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur: now that SF is very concerned that we are spending the money, is the rapporteur aware of what real growth has been since 2015 and until 2017 if, for example, the elderly are taken in isolation? So, how big has real growth been in the area of older people since the elections until 2017? Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219154846	I do not remember what real growth has been in all policy areas. I am sure the questioner will tell me about this in a moment. But everyone agrees that it was actually DF once that you should have at least about 0.7 or 0.8 per cent. growth in public consumption in order to keep pace with demographic developments. In fact, you have to over 1% if you are also to keep up with the increase in prosperity that we are experiencing in society, and people also have the expectation that they will then get the new types of treatments, etc. I have noticed in the last debates we have had that DF suddenly thinks that it does not matter what the promill is in the increase in public consumption, and I am a little puzzled about that. Because I remember that only a year or a year and a half ago there were no limits to how many times the number 0.8 was mentioned. It came as a mantra from DF's side. It was a sacred figure, one would not compromise, it was a requirement of the government, and the government was dependent on DF, it was said. You wouldn't compromise on that. Then I just think it's a little weird that all of a sudden it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I am sure that the questioner will now clarify this with the elderly area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155008	Yeah, 'cause that's what's interesting. If you take the older area, and that's what everyone in this room is saying, we're getting older and we're gonna have to finance that too. The average annual real growth rate from 2015 to 2017 has been 2.04, i.e. over 2%, in the area of the elderly. That's what's interesting, because it's not just 0.6 or 0.5 per cent. down all over the place, so it's just a matter of everyone getting some money, and then we're happy. No, that's where we have with the government and we're really happy about that, among other things. Priority was given to a dignity billion, which has been sent out to the municipalities. 1,000 million. kr. a year has come out to the municipalities, and this shows precisely that giving priority to what the money is to be used for is much better to have a discussion about instead of having a discussion about spending the money. Just to repeat what is the right number: it is over 2% that is being used in the area of the elderly, and we are really proud of that, and we are happy about that in the Danish People's Party. Has it done that there have been gold taps all over the place? No, it certainly hasn't. As a matter of fact, prioritising is what has been needed, and that is why the discussion is also necessary. We have to give priority to what we spend the money on instead of just talking about spending it. The elderly area is one of the areas that needs a strong forward-looking boost, including in the economy, and we can just see that with the level we have now, we have been 2%. higher since the 2015 elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155124	If it does not matter about percentages or what you invest in, either in the wider welfare area or specifically in an area, then it should also be equally important in the area of the elderly, but it is not here. I know what the rapporteur is going to say, namely that priority has been given to the elderly. I think that's fine, too. But go out and tell it to the sosu who run fast, or the elderly who don't get the care and care they need. There are all the examples that we hear over and over again that, after a long life where you have paid taxes, you do not get anything that we just think is fundamentally worthy. I therefore believe that the questioner is also aware that it is not good enough as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155219	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155221	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for a speech which also addressed the climate crisis and the challenges we face there. Part of the quite large environmental impact we face in Denmark is our plastic consumption, and the fact that we use plastic on a large scale and burn it off afterwards. The government gave its answer here last week with a plastic action plan containing a national plastic centre to look at solutions, perhaps in the future, and some sectoral cooperation within, for example, the United Kingdom. agriculture and construction. In the Enhedslisten we would very much like to have some circular economy so that we do not continue to produce new plastics that we burn off, but actually use the plastic we have several times, so that input stops so to speak. What does the SF have in this case? Does the SF think the government's plan is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155325	Thank you for the question. It has to be said that the government and the minister have, after all, realised what a problem this is. I think that should also be acknowledged. But the answer the government gave is that it is not enough. I mean, it's not just a problem we have in Denmark, it's a global problem, from microplastics to the plastic that's visible, what ends up in our food, in our bodies, which helps bind all sorts of things that cause hormonal disorders, etc., so it's really dangerous. I know that our current rapporteur, Mrs Trine Torp, is very aware of this and, as far as I know, there is also good cooperation in the Enhedslisten and the SF. It takes more recycling because otherwise it ends up in our waste water, it ends up in our fields, it ends up in our sea, it ends up in our fish etc. And that is where we need completely different technologies in order to put it to good use and also to invest in the area. Among other things: We know that a lot of plastic ends up in the fields because it comes into the sewage system and then it ends up in the farmers' fields, and it simply does not have to be there. Plastic is an excellent material for many things, but it must be recycled, it must not end up in nature or inside our bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155456	Thank you, and also thank you, for addressing microplastics, which is a growing problem and which is something that we also see spreading to our drinking water. The biggest sinner in relation to microplastics is actually car tires they make up 60%. of the microplastic pollution that Denmark is responsible for. And it is absolutely true that it spreads everywhere, especially in the aquatic environment of the sea, where we also see, for example. killer whales, which are seriously threatened by plastic, which means that they cannot actually reproduce. Something to ensure that we manage the use of plastics, not least microplastics, could of course be to apply taxes. I must say that I have not seen any government proposals in relation to that. But would SF like to put some taxes on e.g. plastic consumption in different contexts so that we stop plastic consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155606	Yeah, we think there's more to it. One thing is the levy on plastics, and now plastics are also many different things, and the rapporteur knows that best, depending on how it is used and in which contexts, etc., and there is some of the plastics that are worst because it binds other very dangerous substances. But one way is taxes I think we have to do more different things.Something else is that there are parts of the plastics industry that are very progressive and would like to go further along the right path to use less plastic, recycled it and used it in the right way. I think that is actually very positive, and here we can at least see an industry in which there are some good forces that would like to contribute. That is also very wise, because otherwise we would have to say that it is simply so dangerous that we have to phase it out. Having it used in the right way and having it recycled is also a way to go, but we must have reduced its use, especially what ends in the wrong places, because it is something of an environmental and natural disaster and also a biodiversity disaster that ends in those places.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155712	Well, that's the ride to sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155715	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur says that climate change is the greatest disaster we are facing, and I fully agree with that. The organisation CARE has calculated that Denmark, as part of the Paris Agreement, will have to pay a steady increase in climate aid, which will end up at around 5 billion. kr. in 2020, if we are to make our fair contribution to this agreement. I see that in your draft budget you will give 300 million. kr., I think, for climate aid, and that is a good step on the way, but is it part of development aid, or is it additional funds, and are you willing to go further in the order of magnitude that CARE highlights, i.e. up to several billion kroner annually?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155809	That is right and thanks for the fact that the rapporteur has read our draft budget. We need to separate ordinary development aid from climate aid, and I know that we agree with that, because I know that the alternative also means it. We want to set aside 1 billion. kr. I would also like to see some of this implemented in new technologies, with which we can help other countries, because there is indeed a great deal of work to be done by means of new technologies, sharing and exporting know-how, etc. Then it is true that in this draft budget we have set aside 300 million. kr. for independent climate assistance. Of course, that amount needs to be increased, but this is what we could figure out as a start.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155904	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155906	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned that there have been 12 000 more poor children in Denmark. And now we have a financial law that creates even more poor children and even more poor families when integration benefits are reduced. SF is part of the so-called ghetto agreement, where we are going to lose 10,000 common family homes without the resident democracy having any influence on it. The SF has then come to the conclusion that it is not helping to find solutions to where the poor are to live. In other words, we have 15 residential areas which are facing the task of drawing up settlement plans where it will be decided that there are 10,000 fewer general family homes. I would like to know where the SF imagines that the poorest families will live. Because there will be more poor families with the Finance Act that others are adopting today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219155958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160000	I have to say that I am actually a little bit indignant about the way some insinuate that SF would be involved in making an agreement. Some with a very nasty word call the ghetto agreement.I don't like that word, maybe it's also because I grew up in a general housing block myself, that I think it's a pretty nasty word that throws people out on the street without having a roof over their heads. This is completely insane. That agreement must mean that we will have better housing. There are accommodations that may eventually have to be demolished... maybe if you want to do it locally... in the places it's about. But what is it that Enhedslisten never says? It is that in that agreement there must be funds for development, local development, that you do as in Aarhus, namely that you get opened up. One member of the Enhedslisten, who is very, very active and I think the rapporteur knows who I am talking about, says that this is the way to go, that we have to open up, that we have to do some things so that we do not live more and more isolated from each other. I would say as someone who grew up in such a place... my own party chairman has grown up in such a place, my own group chairman and several others in my parliamentary group have grown up in such a place... that it seems that the most progressive thing is just to let go, and that the poor can then be allowed to live where they have always done, I do not think that is progressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160125	There's one more question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160128	I have met many SFs who find it difficult to understand why the SF parliamentary group is part of that agreement, and I myself find this difficult to understand. We're about to lose 10,000 ordinary homes. It is a settlement plan and I am not saying that the homes are being demolished, there can also be privatisations, so that these homes are being sold. And I find it very difficult to understand that it is SF's policy to go into undermining the resident democracy. Because that's what you do. That's also why there's this discontent in the general sector. What is happening in Aarhus is that you have started something that the local democracy has decided, and then the Folketing and the city council come and decide something that you have to do. This is not the right way to do it. There is a change going on out there, and the Enhedslisten supports what the resident democracy comes to, but we do not support what the SF dictates in here from Christiansborg. So I think there is every reason to be deeply concerned about what the SF parliamentary group has moved into. There's gonna be a day when you wake up and find out this is your DONG case anno 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160226	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160227	I understand that there are many who are very concerned about the agreement as it has been addressed in the media • completely without nuances! The only thing there is that there is a demolition pool: we tear down your home, you have nowhere to live, no roof over your head. That is what this agreement is about. That is simply not fair. That agreement is about us getting a more mixed housing mix in this country. Where I grew up, there was what was called the block, and then there were parcel houses, and then there were villas. The author Lars Olsen may have described better than anyone what this development has been in this country for the last 30 years. There are not only poor ghettos, but also rich men's ghettos, where the children do not go to school with those who do not look like themselves. This is one of the worst and most dangerous things for the cohesion of a country. We have been on the left for decades shouting for a housing policy. Why don't we discuss housing policy in this Parliament? And then, when we had the chance, we would have liked Enhedslisten to have come into that negotiating room. That is not all in the agreement that we think is perfect. We have also worked to get things out, and we have succeeded. Social democracy has also worked to get things out, and it has succeeded. If we hadn't gone into this, the Landsbygningsfonden would have been completely ruined by government plans. So I don't want to apologize on behalf of the SF. It is not everything that is perfect, but that it is progressive to just stand by and say that we are not changing anything, I do not think.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160351	It is actually possible to follow your speaking time, if you look down (Lisbeth Bech Poulsen Well I looked too) then you can manage it yourself and be free from any need to say anything. But now the word goes to Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160404	Thank you. And thank you for a fantastic rapporteur's speech, which perhaps describes the situation in such a way as to contrast with the fact that, although things are going so well and have almost never been better, it is still not the choice to invest in the future and in our community. The fact that things are going so well may be reduced to the economic bottom line; it is possible at the same time not to be well, as the rapporteur also mentioned. In other words, even if things are going so well, we humans do not necessarily have to be well for that reason, and neither does nature and the planet, when it comes only to the economic bottom line. When things are going so well in economic terms, because I think the rapporteur agrees that on this point, what does SF think about this continuing to pull oil out of the North Sea, which we have also talked about in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160456	It is true that this is a dilemma, but when we in the SF have ended up in that agreement, it is because we can see that we will not be independent of oil tomorrow; I also know that the alternative does not believe in that either. If you could make a snapping solution where we were fossil-free tomorrow or next week, we would of course choose it. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a overlap between the alternative, the radicals, the social democracy, the Enhedslisten and the SF, and if we have the ambitious objective; if we have the partial objectives; if we have the climate plan that is binding, so that we can achieve those goals, and not just say 1 million electric cars and all those things here and there, without there being any commitment to it; so, if we go that way, we can also do so while using some of our own oil. Because the alternative would be that we imported oil. And unfortunately, many oil states in the world are not people you want to depend on Russia, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, etc. Therefore, we thought that when we still rely on oil for a certain period of time we should make ourselves independent as soon as possible it is better that it is our own than that it is the Russians.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160612	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160614	Then I can only say that it is unfortunate that on the one hand we can make an agreement to pull up more oil, but on the other hand we cannot agree to support what should then be replaced, as the rapporteur rightly says, with electric cars, for example. Unfortunately, only one side of the agreements goes through.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160633	So, I think we need to do a lot of things; we also know that we have what is called the non-quota sector. We know that something really needs to be done about passenger transport. It can't be fast enough to get away from fossil cars. We know that agriculture is a great emitter and emits even more, and there are very many farmers who want to do what is right and sustainable, but they need our help. We know that our consumption needs to change, and we know that, in the end, our economy must also change. And now is the time for us to do it, because if you only care about the economic bottom line, it will only be more expensive; it will be more expensive, the longer we wait. And at some point, we need such tough measures, because there is no alternative, that I think those who come after us will be quite startled, in other words, about how hard the means are to be used. For then it is no longer something that lies a little in the future, but here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160733	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160734	I guess the SF would also like to pursue a responsible economic policy. Therefore, I would ask the SF to relate to the fact that we are experiencing a boom, that there is a capacity pressure, a shortage of labour in construction, etc., and that is why we have to keep up with public spending. Right now we have a neutral fiscal policy, but if more money had been spent, as the SF proposes, we would not have had a neutral fiscal policy. Then we would have pursued a fiscal policy in Denmark, which had helped push an overheating, and somebody has to pay for it at some point. That's usually the way it is, and it's usually people who get fired at some point. There is, of course, a conflict between wanting to pursue a responsible fiscal policy and wanting to spend more money in the current economic situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219160838	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen sounds almost like a keynesian when he sits down there and says so. It is true that when things are going well, you have to hold back in some areas, and then it is very good to kick-start the economy when things are not going well. You can do that in a number of different ways. And when sir... Joachim B. Olsen talks about responsible economic policy, as if it were one thing, I just have to say that I do not think we agree. It is true that public consumption can be kept back and private consumption lost. You can also turn it around and say: many of us are actually quite rich, but we think that some are left on the platform, and we want to invest in them, or we want to invest in our welfare or in climate solutions. It means so economically, and it is true that then you can't give up on private consumption, and you can't give up huge tax cuts, because if you do both in a boom, you get overheating. You have to choose. The difference between Liberal Alliance and SF is that, when we have a boom, we want to invest in welfare, so that it is also future-proof, we want to invest in our children and young people, we want to invest in climate solutions, etc. But what went wrong in the 00s was among several things that there was an overheating, because there were also major tax cuts given by the Anders Fogh Rasmussen government. What also went wrong under Anders Fogh Rasmussen's government was that the housing market was completely lost, etc., so we ended up in a financial crisis in which Denmark was hit harder than our neighbouring countries because of the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219161014	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219161017	I do not think there are many economists who would agree that it was tax cuts in the '00s that led to overheating. Many economists had a great deal of trouble with the fact that public spending was extremely high, that public spending was not controlled, that municipalities exceeded budgets and so on. Public consumption is, after all, currently becoming more active. Tax relief doesn't. They have half the activity effect. Then you have to choose between them in a boom, you have to choose lower taxes. But the SF will pursue a strict fiscal policy. So now that you want to lose out on public spending, which is putting itself into increased activity immediately 1 billion. kr. more in public spending next year is equal to 1 billion. kr. in increased activity how, if SF gets power, will SF pursue a tight fiscal policy? You want to increase public spending, and then you have to pull some activity out of the economy in a different way. How will the SF do this in order to conduct a responsible fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219161116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219161117	We would, for example, like: have not lowered registration fees three times, so we have got more petrol cars on the roads than we have ever seen in the history of Denmark. It is a consumption that has so much set one to one. We did not want to give tax relief and we did not want to continue the housing job scheme, for example. in a building industry that is on the way to being overheated in some places. So there are some areas. But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's party wants to contribute, even if there is a boom, to people getting things done at home by craftsmen, and would like to push on consumption by making petrol cars cheaper. These are just different political views we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219161209	In fact, I would like to thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and give way to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219161226	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking our government partners and the Danish People's Party for a very good cooperation on the Finance Act. In cooperation with the country, we have an agreement whereby we both invest in our health care and ensure a tight but fair justice and immigration policy, remove red tape for our businesses and give more children a good start to life. As a conservative, I could hardly wish for a better Christmas present. Christmas peace begins so little to sink over Christiansborg or almost then. Because while we in the blue block have landed a strong financial agreement, the tone is slightly different in the red camp. Most recently, you could read in Everything that Mr. Morten Østergaard believes that it is unclear what Mrs Mette Frederiksen wants besides being Prime Minister. I also think it is unclear what exactly the promises of the three prime minister candidates in the red bloc have made. One wants to be Prime Minister for the children, the other wants to be Prime Minister for the climate and the last one, yes, I understand that Mr. Morten Østergaard is a little confused. But, fortunately, politics is about something other than who is going to be Prime Minister. Politics is primarily about results, the results that we produce for our citizens. That is what matters to the Danes. In health, the Danes should be able to get help and care when they need it. This is a matter for the Conservative People's Party. In fact, it was also back in 1987 Poul Schlüter, who was a pioneer and set up the Ministry of Health, a ministry to provide shorter waiting times, more coherence and better treatment. Those principles apply to this day. We invest with the Finance Act 500 million. kr. further to lift health care with a new health reform, a health reform that will help to ensure the principles that were also in place when the Ministry of Health, shorter waiting lists, more coherence and better treatment were founded. The Danes deserve world-class health care. For example, if you are affected by a serious disease, you should not be worse off just because you live in Denmark, and although record number of cancer patients are alive, five years after they have been diagnosed with cancer, we still have to do better than today. It starts with prevention. Therefore, we are now offering boys in line with girls a HPV vaccination, while at the same time strengthening the child vaccination programme so that more are given the recommended vaccinations. But prevention is not the only thing that matters. This also applies to citizens' waiting times for treatment and investigation. We're investing 100 million. kr. in shortening the waiting time to e.g. hearing aid treatment. This is an area that has lagged behind in recent years. Criminals also need to be better able to listen, otherwise severe penalties will be imposed. Denmark must respect the law and our common values. With the Finance Act, we make it safer for citizens and harder for criminals. For example, criminal foreigners are sent to a new exit centre on the island of Lindholm. At the same time, we are strengthening controls on exiting criminals at the Danish borders and at airports, and we have been given money to check whether we can get prison places abroad for exiled criminals. The Finance Act is bad news for criminal foreigners, but also for those who are considering committing financial crime, because we are allocating money to strengthen the back-up police so that they can strengthen the efforts and controls against money laundering. We will not put up with financial crime... we simply will not put up with it. Fortunately, the vast majority of Danes are law-abiding and pay tax, the tax they must, and contribute to the community, and you can really feel that in these times when the economy is going really well. Danish economy stands sharp, in fact so sharp, that if I go over my speaking time with 1 minute don't worry, President, I don't, but if I did now then an extra private job would have been created in Denmark, because since the election there have been 153,000 new private jobs in Denmark. That's like a new job every 11 minutes. Some might be content with it, but we do not. We want a Denmark where even more will be part of the working community. This requires, first and foremost, that it is easier to be entrepreneurs in Denmark, because it is the companies that create new jobs every 11 minutes. That is why business conditions are not just about companies, but equally about the citizens who are at work today, because companies create more jobs. With the Finance Act, we remove trouble and bureaucracy, such as: The waste fee, a fee, a giro card, which is sent out to 300,000 companies every year, also to companies that do not produce waste. And then one could at least be tempted to believe that it was at least an effective way of collecting taxes, but that is not the case either. The waste fee provides tax revenue for 100 million. DKK, but it costs 50 million. kr. in administration and in collection only. In short, it's a bad business. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very pleased that the garbage fee is finally going to the garbage bin. It is not only the conditions of companies that we are improving. We are also making it easier to be a student, because we do not believe that it can be right to punish young students who want to take an extra job alongside their studies. For example, students in upper secondary education can only earn just under DKK 8,000. beside their su, although they can and will work more. We are opposed to such a ceiling in the Conservative People's Party. That's why we're raising the student's free money so they can now earn 1,000 kroner. more a month next to their su. It is not an abolition that we would have preferred to see, but it is a step in the right direction. Now that we're with the kids, let's start by talking about the youngest kids. They each deserve a good start to life, but unfortunately some children start backwards on points, and when they start backwards, it unfortunately follows them very many years forward. For example, there may be years of difference between children's linguistic and social skills when they start school, and that is a difference which is really difficult for many of them to catch up on later. That is why we are also pleased that with the Finance Act we are investing 1 billion. kr. in the first 1,000 days of the child. This includes, among other things, that we can hire 475 educators extra in the day-to-day services where there is a high proportion of exposed children. At the same time, we are investing 165 million. kr. in an increased health care effort in vulnerable and vulnerable families, so that we can ensure a good start to life for more children. There are many other solid results that I can highlight, increased availability of funds for pensioners, more investment in the environment and climate and much more, but I promised the President that I would not go beyond my speaking time, so I should rather round off. As Conservatives, we can look back with satisfaction on another Finance Act with conservative prints that help make a difference in the Danes' everyday lives and, as I said at the outset, after all, it is the results that count. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162131	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162140	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I'm a little curious. After all, we hear nurses and doctors saying that there is too little staff in our hospitals. We have also discussed today that there are problems due to lack of practitioners. We also know, as the rapporteur knows, that there is a lack of what we call warm hands in the care of the elderly. Therefore, can the rapporteur explain to me how the Conservatives, with their new tax proposals, can think that there is money to give tax relief to the Danes when we are so lacking in warm hands, both in our hospitals and in the care of the elderly, and when we lack some of the most important things in our health care, namely the practitioners? And where there is real pressure in the tax proposal from the Conservatives, there is also the top tax, and that means that these are the kind of people like the rapporteur and I who already have ours on the dry side, who, as such, are even more favoured. Can the rapporteur tell us how it is possible to find money for these tax cuts, while at the same time there are real shortcomings in the close welfare situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162300	I can do that very easily, because it is exactly the same way as when we had a social democratic government, where top taxes were also lowered and, at the same time, a level of service could also be maintained in the public sector. It's not a either or. It is not the case that, if you lower taxes, you cannot at the same time invest in public welfare. If the rapporteur had bothered to read about the funding in the plan we have put forward, the rapporteur would also have seen that a margin of manoeuvre of some 20 billion is actually left. kr. kr., which can be invested in all sorts of other areas of government. It may be to strengthen the defense, the police, the care of the elderly, the health care system. There are so many possibilities. But what the plan does is that we ensure that Denmark will be more prosperous in the future. It increases bnp by 30 billion. kr. kr. richer by spending the money in a more sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162352	I just want to ask you again. That is quite right in relation to the economic room for manoeuvre, but there will be only 20 billion. kr. back into the economic space. According to the Ministry of Finance, 27 billion will be needed. kr. just to maintain the level of service that is today. So that means that the nurses and the doctors who are already saying that they are running too fast today and that there is not enough time and that there are not enough hands. So do they in the care of the elderly in the municipalities. Then run even faster so that the rapporteur and I can get a little more for ourselves, even though we must admit that we have enough already.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162437	I do not buy the paragraph on the demographic trait to which I assume the rapporteur refers and that it is one that has to be invested in the public sector in order not to change the level of service. That is simply not correct. The demographic trait is a technical calculation which is calculated from an average consideration of what it costs in the public sector per single citizen, but it is clear that the last citizen in this equation does not cost the same as the first one. First of all, there are economies of scale which are not included in the demographic trend at all. In addition, it is also the case that we do not pursue fiscal policy after a technical calculation in the Ministry of Finance. This is, of course, our priority from time to time. This time we have actually given priority and invested in recruitment to the areas mentioned by the questioner, namely that we need to have more nurses trained, that we need to have more doctors trained, and that we also need to have some more trained for care for the elderly. So we are very aware of precisely those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162532	Thank you. Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162534	Thank you. The rapporteur came to the conclusion that time was running out, and what was then left of which the rapporteur did not manage to tell us was, among other things, what was left. All the good that the Finance Act should contain, among other things. environment and climate, as I understood it. Now there was a time when the Conservatives were a very green party, but the most green at the moment is probably the party letter. When I look up the Finance Act and look up the section called "More Nature" in 2030, it doesn't get much better. There's a green natural pool of 50 million. kr., but the remaining money, and that's actually quite a lot • 150 million. kr. We have been involved in this ourselves in the Enhedslisten, so I shall not criticise that. And I shall not criticize the Animal Security Centre, either, but I would like to criticise the fact that the Animal Security Centre and the protection of the Danish coasts are called nature. The latter, on the contrary, is protection against nature, and the Animal Watch Centre has the sensible purpose of caring for sick animals, but it is not exactly nature that we help in this way. Could the rapporteur perhaps explain to me what is as good as the government is doing for nature, since I cannot find it in the section called "More Nature by 2030"?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162711	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162712	Well, the questioner himself mentioned this pool of 50 million. kr. But in terms of coastal protection, it is just a real, really big challenge that we see climate change, which means something to the people who live close to the coast, and we have to take it seriously, that is, it is a real, really big cost, and that is where we, as a society, also have a responsibility to those who experience these water rises that experience storm tides time and again. That is what we wanted to do. I don't think we're unambitious. I mean, I actually think we're very ambitious. 50 million kr. In a natural pool in my optics is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162756	Thank you. Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162758	It is, of course, taste and pleasure that you think is ambitious. And if 50 million... kr. If nature is ambitious, you can say that you are twice as ambitious in terms of abolishing the waste fee, where you spend 50 million. kr. On it. Well, it's cost 100 million. kr. for companies. And now I am not quite sure that the rapporteur is right that half was an administrative fee it was probably a little less. At least that is what we can see in the hearings. But the Conservatives and the government can also afford to set 80 million. kr. off to a wild boar fence. So I would say that it would be nice if the ambitions were to go further than the 50 million. kr., when you can now spend so much money on something that has nothing to do with nature, and by the way it calls nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162853	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162854	Well, there are a lot of things in the Finance Act, and the questioner comes up with a few of the good initiatives that are there. There are also a great many other good initiatives which also have to do with the environment or climate. Another thing is such a thing as air pollution. It is also something that really matters to the Danes, so that there is a proper environment where they go. There we have, for example. money to make a scrapping premium for wood-burning furnaces, which also means a great deal. This is something that is actually harmful to health. So there are a great many good initiatives in this area, and I am pleased that the questioner recognises that there are a great many initiatives in our Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162934	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219162937	Thank you. Yes, we know the party as the green party in the blue block, and I am delighted. But I'm so little curious about where the big stuff goes. I remember that Mette Abildgaard, I think, was with the Minister for the Environment out identifying these new forests, which will be finished in 30-40 years, and which will increase the natural area by 0.4 per cent. I do not think it is impressive, and I am wondering whether the rapporteur could be interested in what we are very interested in at the moment when we are talking about financial law, namely to make a green review of the financial bill every year and to present what the financial bill now put forward means for the sustainable transformation, that is, for the three bottom lines of sustainable change. What we're looking at right now is typically just the economic, how growth is being created, but you can't actually see through that and I just got an answer today from the finance minister about what this finance law is actually going to mean for the whole green area. Could it be interesting for the rapporteur's party to be involved in this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163101	We think it is important that we take the climate issue very seriously, and I think that in the draft budget we address some of the challenges we have. We set, among other things. This extra billion kroner, which, among other things, is... ensure that we get something done about the transport sector, which is, of course, one of our major challenges in the area of climate change. As far as the questioner is concerned, I assume that this is one of the things that can actually be compared slightly with the green account that was previously held. We in the Conservative People's Party are certainly not opposed to this. As I understand it, there are some criteria from the European Union that make it necessary to make a number of things clear anyway. And if it is not a great deal of extra work, I personally and the Conservative People's Party do not mind that a green accounting is being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163147	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163150	I am glad to hear that, because this is not just a silly effort we are proposing. It is, of course, a work which the OECD, among other things. This is the case, and as other leading organizations have also worked with over time. So I hear it a little like I can expect that if we come up with a proposal here in the Danish Parliament to integrate this kind of thing into the financial law process here in Denmark, the Conservatives would actually like to take part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163220	As I said, this is not something we on the conservative side are opposed to. I know that priority has been given to the fact that there are already some criteria. Now the rapporteur mentions the OECD, but I also believe that there is something from the European Union that makes it necessary to make some of these calculations anyway. But it is clear that if there is not a lot of extra administration or bureaucracy in it, we think it might be a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163239	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163242	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, and in particular to the rapporteur for his reply before my colleague Erik Christensen. There was just one thing I was sprinkling over in that answer. I heard the rapporteur say that he does not recognise the Ministry of Finance's calculations of the demographic features, that he simply does not recognise the premise for it. And then, in the same vein, the rapporteur says that, in fact, he also believes that when there are more elderly people who need to go to more nursing homes, and when there are more children who need to go to more day care institutions, there will also be economies of scale. I heard the rapporteur say this: economies of scale. Can the rapporteur clarify what the rapporteur and his party mean by economies of scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163328	The calculation, which is a purely technical calculation made by the Ministry of Finance, is calculated on the basis of an average consideration: what does a citizen cost on a given service or service? It is clear that the first citizen in a course does not cost the same as the last one, and that is the prerequisite that is put in in such a way if one simply blindly portrays the demographic trait. I would just like to say that we do not, of course, conduct fiscal policy on the basis of such a mechanical calculation by the Ministry of Finance, but on the basis of the areas we actually consider important to prioritise, and I mentioned them in my speech. I mentioned, for example. Health, the children's area, let's give the children a good start in life and justice. These are the areas that we think are important to prioritise, and that is, of course, where we choose to give priority to money rather than just blindly using a calculation which, by the way, has a lot of variables that we can also move on to the demographic features of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163428	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163430	Thank you. But, of course, we are pursuing fiscal policy based on the projections and the figures from the Ministry of Finance, whether it is the calculation of the demographic trait or all sorts of other things. Because if we do not do that, we will end up in the situation where, as the rapporteur is talking about, there are economies of scale, so that if there are suddenly enough older people and you keep stumping them into the same care centres, there will also be too many elderly people in those care centres. So that's what they're in the hallways, then what they don't get is the food they need, and that's what they're undernourished, and a lot of other things happen. That is the consequence of underfunding welfare because economies of scale are envisaged. Then the rapporteur will not recognise that when the Conservatives are playing out with a tax proposal that underfinances the demographic move by at least 7 billion. kr. in order to provide top tax incentives because economies of scale are expected, will it also cost the elderly, for those children, for those schoolchildren who are out there and benefit from the welfare that we invest in?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163532	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163534	I am sorry to say this, but unfortunately I think the questioner needs to re-read the demographic move. It has nothing to do with overcrowding anywhere. It is a mechanical calculation where some things are presented, and it is also how many immigrants come to Denmark, how many asylum seekers come to Denmark. It is included in the calculation of the demographic trait, which means that because we lower some of the benefits and make it less attractive to come to Denmark and seek asylum, this will mean that the demographic trait will fall in the future. We have already succeeded in this once. If you go back to before the elections, for example... This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2014-2020. kr., now it's 5 billion. kr. kr. So the thing about politics one to one after the demographic trait is simply not the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163626	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163628	Excuse me, but frankly, I think it is a little black talk coming from the rapporteur, and perhaps it is because you have been caught a little bit on the wrong foot. But does the Conservative rapporteur not recognise that the proposal you have put forward will lack billions for welfare? In other words, if the demographic feature is, as the Ministry of Finance calculates it, then you will not be able to maintain just the level of welfare that exists today. There will be a shortage of billions of dollars for our elderly, for the hospitals, for the children. Does the Conservative rapporteur not recognise that? That's a little interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163708	I don't know how interesting that is. We can discuss it again, but the demographic trait is not an expression of what it really costs out there. I know that this is the prerequisite that the Social Democratic Party has put in place as a precondition, but that is just not right. In other words, the demographic trait represents an average calculation, and by the way there are a lot other things than the drawing on how many more older people are getting. There are also how many asylum seekers there are coming to Denmark. If there are fewer asylum seekers, the demographic move will be reduced. I think it is unwise to conduct policy solely on a mechanical calculation in the Ministry of Finance, which, moreover, we have the opportunity to influence. And that's what we do, among other things. with the Finance Act here, where we once again tighten up the area of foreigners with the expectation that when it becomes less attractive to come to Denmark and seek asylum, there will be fewer asylum seekers. This actually means that the demographic features, the cost, may fall in the future, because we are dealing with the problems in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163802	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163803	I would hope that the Detector will listen here, because I think the rapporteur is moving out of hand. However, I would like to ask you about the proposal on tax relief, which the rapporteur's party has also put forward, because it is enormously wrong. Those who have the most will get the most, and those who have the least will have to pay, that is. the unemployed, they worn out. This may not be surprising, but there has not been much taste for these skewed tax concessions in the present government, of which the rapporteur is a part. So, can we not have a foretaste of what the rapporteur's party would like to sell out to get these tax cuts through? For example, is it the green ▪ that you do not go to the polls on which you are willing to pay the price to get such tax reliefs to pass through?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163849	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163850	We have presented a tax proposal which we think is realistic but also ambitious. In general, we think that the Danes pay too much in tax. We have the world's second highest tax burden, and we think that is too high. We do not think it should be a law of nature that we should be in the absolute top of the world of those who pay the most in taxes. That is why we have put forward a plan which facilitates the tax for the Danes across the board in relation to the employment allowance. In other words, it is better to get up in the morning and go to work. This helps to increase the supply of work, and it helps more Danes to get up and go to work because it pays better. It must pay off to make an extraordinary effort. That is why we have also raised the top tax limit, because today it is the case that one in five people who go to work pays top tax. I do not really think that was the idea of the top tax when it was introduced. That is where we want to raise the limit so that fewer people will pay top tax. We would very much like to abolish it because we think it is unfair, but if we can move the border, we have come a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163955	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219163958	Well, it's always interesting how to spend the money, whether it's on tax cuts, or whether it's on other things. Now the rapporteur mentioned that it is important to take the climate challenge seriously, and I can look back at the fact that we have made an energy agreement in which we achieve CO 2 10 million. t in 2030, and then there was an expectation that the government would come up with a proposal on climate change, which would then contribute more. Because it has to be said that with what has been agreed, we are in a situation where we are only reducing by 25%. What has been reduced by the last 10 years, so we need more climate action. It has to be said that with what the financial bill here contributes, the climate effort in Denmark will increase by an extra 120 million. In other words, it is not enough to look at what we achieved with that energy agreement. In other words, there is a need for a climate agreement that is ambitious, not just this petty little run-off of diesel cars and stoves, which the rapporteur stands and is so pleased about. Does the rapporteur not see that this draft budget is not at all green, but that it is a coal-black budget proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164111	In other words, we are among the very first countries in the world which clearly state a target of when we will phase out petrol and diesel cars, among the very first in the world. Already in 2 years' time or in 2020, it is already in just over 1 year's time that new CO2 should not be registered. It starts with the transport sector, afterwards it is taxis, and then it is ordinary cars. It is a huge transformation of our society that we are in the process of. We're among the leaders in the world, I think, in driving this development, and that's where we're supposed to be. We must be those who set the direction, of course we must. We must be ambitious about this, I think, and so are we. So, with this transition that will take place in the next few years in the transport sector, real, really big steps will be taken in the right direction, and Denmark will be among the leading ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164206	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164208	Well, it would definitely not be because of this financial law if it could happen. It has to be said that the chairman of the Climate Council pointed out this criticism, and this then meant that he was fired. Hopefully now we are faced with a parliamentary election just in a few moments, where the people have the opportunity to fire the government because of this lack of effort in the climate area. The Prime Minister was out at the opening of the Danish Parliament that there would be 1 million electric cars by 2030, and then you can see some negotiations that have been going on and that result in 1,000 extra electric cars coming. I mean, honestly, it is not ambitious what has been put into the financial law agreement. Can the rapporteur not see that we are completely abandoning the climate effort and simply making a little symbolic policy here and here by giving a small subsidy to phase out an old diesel car and some stove, and then we are also slightly clapping on some biogas plants that are leaking? Well, it's good enough that you do something like that, but it's not enough just to put a little duct tape on a leaking biogas plant. It simply takes something significant to solve these significant climate problems that we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164310	Well, that's what I'm gonna do if mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen had read the conservative tax proposal, he would also have seen that we actually set 2.9 billion. kr. to make it more attractive to get some more electric cars on the roads, because we have to make 2030 a deadline for no longer registering petrol and diesel-powered cars in Denmark. We must be among the leaders in the world, and we must, because it is in this way that we can make the greatest difference, namely by showing the way and getting some of the big countries to follow us, and by Danish companies developing technological solutions in the green field because we are among the first. So we have a strong home market that we can export abroad, because then we can actually, even if we only emit 0.1 per cent. of the world's CO2 That's the way we're going, and we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164415	Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164417	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I particularly appreciate the fact that Conservatives will ensure a good start to life for each and every one of the children, and I believe that the party believes so. And when it comes to each and every one, it must also apply to the increasing number of children who grow up in poverty because of cuts in benefits. Just like money is taken from the vulnerable families and money is invested in institutions with a high proportion of vulnerable children. So I wonder whether it is in the institutions that children should eat their fill and that the institutions might even have to buy air costumes and diapers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164455	We have introduced a ceiling on cash benefits in order to have a ceiling on how much you can get in public services, because there has to be a difference between being at home and being on passive support and being on the labour market. There must be a difference, and it must also be so that it can be felt. In fact, we think that is fair. Then I know that there is a discussion about this about the fact that the 20% who have the least are apparently suddenly poor. It is not, of course, because they have received less in kroner and ear, but it is because some others have been moved from passive support to the labour market. It increases everything else equal the difference. That's the way it is. But it is not because these children live in absolute poverty, because we must combat that. We should not have people living in absolute poverty or extreme poverty, as is done in other countries. Of course, we should not accept that poverty in Denmark, and we will certainly ensure that. But this relative poverty, I think, is a completely wrong way of calculating it. Because no matter how rich we are in society, no matter how rich the bottom 20 percent of the children are, they will still be considered poor when you make it up that way. I think that is a wrong way of making it up. Now let's look at the absolute numbers instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164608	If we look at the absolute figures, we have heard earlier from the platform that the Rockwool Foundation finds that it is not possible to live on the benefits that some have been put down on. So now that it includes each and every one of these kids, are they also the ones that are included in this group of kids?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164631	Now I do not know what exactly is for services to which the rapporteur refers. If that is the ceiling on cash benefits, it is the case that, for example, A single mother with two or three children receives DKK 18,600. paid out. I think we can be familiar with that. Of course, there has to be a difference between being on public support and going to work. It's only fair. We should not have really poor people in Denmark if we make it up absolutely or as they do in other countries. But this relative poverty is always about a method where there will always be 20 per cent below the median, and when the median moves up, it's because it's going well in society, and then the number increases in that group. Now let's do it the right way, and then I'm kind of in on it, of course we have to solve it. Because we have to deal with the weakest in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164725	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164728	Well, it's fascinating to hear how sir. Anders Johansson tries to address calculations of demography as such a slightly random and arbitrary calculation over in the Ministry of Finance. I just have a few questions. Does the rapporteur recognise that, when calculating the demographic trait, what is called healthy ageing is recognised, so that it is not only directly calculated that there are more older people, but that there are also more older people who are actually better off, and that the move on the welfare society is thus everything else equal than it would otherwise have been? That's one. The second is whether the rapporteur also recognises that we are actually becoming significantly more older in the years to come, and that it is especially because of the significantly more elderly that we are going to see that what is calculated as the demographic trait is just greater than it has been if we look back years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164833	Yes, I certainly recognise that there will be more elderly people in Denmark. We live longer, and fortunately we also feel better longer, and we should be happy about that too. After all, the demographic trait is made up of many different things. It is of course also how many children there are and, as I have mentioned, it can also be how many asylum seekers come to Denmark and the integration costs of it. It is composed of many things, and some things can be influenced, and others can be influenced less, but that does not change the fact that we always have an opportunity to give priority to money in the public sector. What we have highlighted this time and now Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, specifically for the elderly, is where the problems are actually at the moment, and that is in relation to recruitment. With the agreement, we have just ensured that we need to have more focus on how we actually recruit enough staff in the care of the elderly. Because that is actually what are really major challenges with which we are at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164927	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219164929	When it comes to precisely the part relating to the elderly, it has to be said that we have known for a very long time that the challenge would come, that there will be more older people. We knew that, among other things. in 2006, when an agreement was reached on the welfare settlement. And sir... Anders Johansson not only remind us all of what the politicians actually said in 2006 when that agreement was concluded, including Conservatives themselves? Did they then say that the necessary room for manoeuvre had now been created in order to provide the welfare that could otherwise be cared for that would not be possible? Or was it said at the time that there would now be money to provide tax relief? Because I remember that was the first. But it may be that sir... Anders Johansson has a completely different view of reality than the rest of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165024	Now I haven't been in this business that long as the questioner, so I'm gonna have to say that I haven't been in that part. But the short of the long term is that the reforms that have been implemented over the past decade have helped to make Denmark richer. That's one of them. Because of the fact that we have a great deal of room for manoeuvre now. After all, the great room for manoeuvre is beginning to come now, and we shall be delighted about that. After all, these are reforms that help to make Denmark richer, and we must continue along that path. It has to be the case that working pays off, and it has to pay off to make an extra effort. Because that's what makes Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165102	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165103	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned health in such a very short way and touched on hearing aids and included, among other things, hearing aids. I do not really hear the rapporteur mention another quite important area of health, namely psychiatry. It is the case that mental health problems, according to the Psychiatry Fund, represent the greatest burden of illness among children and young people and that, in fact, almost 15%. of all children have been treated for a mental illness before they are 18 years of age. So what I would like to ask the rapporteur is this: if we are going to have this connection, and if these children in particular are going to have a good start in life, is it not an area that needs to be lifted and needs a stronger boost rather than top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165156	Fortunately, we also spend money on psychiatry, more beds in psychiatry, with the Finance Act, so that is an important priority. It is clear that I think it is important that we take care of those who have the most difficulty, and that is among other things. this group, and that is also why we have given priority in the Finance Act to securing some more beds for precisely psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165222	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165223	Bedrooms are a small part of this, but there is also a huge amount of preventive action in this area, and I would just like to hear it quite frankly: does the rapporteur not think that this is an area that needs to be raised much more than the Conservatives are proposing? Because we are looking at the Conservative People's Party's tax proposal in particular, that another group should be given priority. They are the ones who earn a great deal of money that must be favoured. These are some of the most vulnerable groups we're dealing with that don't fill at all with the Conservatives. So when the rapporteur actually says in his speech that it should be good and that politics should be about results for the citizens, I would like to ask: what are the results for some citizens when they have such a tax proposal that really gives priority to the already wealthy groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165319	As I said before, we have a debate on finance law now, which is about the financial law that we have just signed, and that is precisely where we are allocating funds to strengthen health. We're allocating funds to strengthen psychiatry. These are actually some things that matter to the Conservatives. As I also mentioned in my speech, Poul Schlüter helped to set up the Ministry of Health at the time, when we had to focus more attention on this coherence, on the coherent patient cycle: How do we get a greater professionalism, a better health for the Danes? So that is something that matters to the Conservative People's Party. But that does not mean that at the same time it is fair that people, for example, should be allowed to do so. has to pay an inheritance tax, a death tax when you're leaving. Well, these are two very different things that you mix together. One doesn't rule out the other. We do one thing here in the Finance Act. We have a huge room for manoeuvre, and we say that then, for example, we have to. not pay a death tax in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165407	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165410	In connection with this financial law, the rate pool has been abolished, and that is a good thing, because funds have been taken from the transfer income and brought into a pool: the rate pool, which has then been used to finance good initiatives by the way. But it's been feeding the dog its own tail. So it is good, but then it has happened that the new regulation on transfer income, which replaces the old rate regulation, will actually mean that a large number of people on transfer income will get less in hand than they got with the old rate regulation. Because if the regulation that is now coming into force had been in force from 2005 to 2018 and we have received an answer to that in question 99 to the draft Finance Act here • a person on early retirement would have had DKK 4,200. less a year today before tax. A person on unemployment benefit would have had DKK 3,600. less a year before tax, and a dependent person on cash benefits would have had DKK 3,200. less a year before tax, if the regulation that will apply now had been in force from 2005 until today. This is a huge deterioration, and I would just like to ask: is it something that the Conservative People's Party is proud of?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165539	That's what Mr. Rune Lund doesn't say about this, is that the money that you don't get paid right now, instead of being paid into a pension fund. After all, this is about the fact that most Danes have a pension fund in the future, but if you've been on public support for many years, you won't have the same opportunity to save up. So, where it used to fall into a rate pool and I also agree that it was used for many good initiatives, you now ensure that the citizen is allowed to keep the money even in the form of a pension savings. In fact, I think that is a good solution, because the alternative is that it will lead to increasing transfers, and it will again help to reduce labour supply. This will help to make it less attractive to move from passive support to the labour market. What we have just succeeded in in recent years by making it more attractive is that these financial incentives seem to go from passive support to the labour market, is that we have actually lifted a lot, for example. cash benefits from passive support and into the labour market. This is very good news both for the Danish economy, but also for the individual citizen who was once parked on passive support, but suddenly becomes part of the working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165659	Thank you. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165701	But early retirement will in future be regulated in a way that will be harder than it has been with the current and, incidentally, harsh rate regulation, which means that you will have less money to pay rent, food and running costs on a daily basis. Then it is true that some money is also being taken into compulsory pension savings, but when we look at the figures, we can also see, if we take the years from 2005 to 2018, that in 5 of those years an early retirement pensionist would, in general, also get less if the early retirement pensionist ends up being set off in the old age pension as a consequence of compulsory savings. That's one thing. The second point I think is worth highlighting is that according to the statistics we have on how long people live and are on early retirement etc. etc. By those who are on early retirement today and are now being forced to pay for a pension fund, which will not in any way live long enough to get them into a situation where they can get the pension savings because they are actually going to die before. Is this something the Conservative People's Party has been aware of? Is that something you've been fighting for? Is that something you're proud of?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165827	In fact, I think it's a good solution we've made in terms of changing the rate pool. I think it is very reasonable that pensioners' rates should be allowed to follow the trend in wages. However, there are also some challenges if public services just run out of hand because people are on transfer income. For it goes in and influences the Danish economy, in that it causes fewer people to leave passive support and to enter the labour market. It must pay to go from passive support to the labour market, and that is why it has been important for us to come up with this solution, so that instead of immediately getting a lot of money paid out in the future, we got this pension savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165920	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219165921	The rapporteur and I are colleagues in the Committee on Taxation, where we are currently working on a proper clean-up work across the whole of the Danish Parliament. And there is my view that we all agree that the tax administration should be so much back on track and that it should be rebuilt. Capital has also been created for this. We are all involved in making the necessary investments. I have a question for the rapporteur. I can ask the rapporteur, just as I sometimes allow myself to do to our tax minister: is that enough? Is this the turnaround that we need and in which we have also invested, or should we really see more money? It is always a political priority whether you want to put more in the system than you have already done or whether that is not possible right now. It may well be my fear that we have done what is politically possible to get through right now and that we are actually going to be craving the interest we pay on the large amounts that are available. Is it the rapporteur's view that there has been enough investment in the tax administration to ensure that, not tomorrow, but over an affordable period of perhaps 4-5 years, we see a tax system that is again worth having confidence in all around, so that we can also restore security by paying taxes and that it is useful?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170033	I certainly hope so. After all, we have invested widely here in the Danish Parliament. In a broad circle, we have found money to invest massively in restoring the IRS. The Danes' confidence in the tax administration is perfectly understandable. We must gradually rebuild that trust. It's gonna take a while. It's gonna cost resources. One thing that I think is really important is also that we get a serious job done in order to simplify our tax legislation. For a large part of the challenges we faced, for example. The EFI recovery system was, of course, that it could not deal with the very complex tax system that we have. So I think that here too we have a responsibility to clean up some of these rules that make our tax system so complex. Both so that the Danes can better understand it, but in reality also so that it becomes easier to control it in the tax administration, so that it is easier to recover an electronic recovery which will work properly from day one.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170132	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170134	I also think it is essential to say that we have an excellent tax system in a great many ways and a tax system that is far ahead, including digitally, many other countries. But that being said, we just have challenges. I would then like to ask the rapporteur: if it is possible to find the employees in terms of recruitment and recruitment, then we have seen that there is actually a very good business case in hiring new employees for control, hiring new skilled employees to strengthen the tax administration. Many have already been recruited, but if it is possible, if there is no barrier in terms of recruitment, would it be interesting for the rapporteur and the Conservatives to hire more than is already planned?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170210	As I recall, we've been hiring 2,000 extra since the election, that is, since we started this plan. We in the Conservative People's Party actually have only one ambition, and that is that we have employed the right number in the tax administration to solve the task. And it's hard for me to say here whether it's exactly the 2,000 we've hired now. We've come a long way compared to the low point that was before the election, but as far as the exact number is concerned, we just need the right number, the number needed to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170242	Thank you. We're just gonna get to the last one, and that's Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170245	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur will not accept absolute poverty. I very much agree with that, but I would like to know whether the rapporteur will not define the concept of absolute poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170259	What I said was that relative poverty is measured by taking a group and saying that because they are in the bottom 20%. definition just poor. I say that poverty must be made up of how much money you have in dollars and ear to yourself, and not in which coffers you are in the level of income. There may be many good reasons why you are in the upper or lower coat; it may be that you are temporarily out of the labour market; you can be a student; you can live in a place where you live cheaply and have just chosen to go down in time and thus have a lower income. I mean, I'm just thinking that it's important to me that we don't have children in Denmark who feel bad, because the family simply doesn't have money to live for, but that doesn't mean they're 20%. relatively poorest children in Denmark are ill. I just don't agree with the way it's done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170352	I stumbled over a quote from last year when a lone woman on integration benefits has said that if you lower it further, then I'll be homeless. Then there's nothing to do, I wouldn't be able to survive on it. Now, if we want to reduce the benefits further for single parents and families, will the rapporteur not explain how to live as a family or a single parent on the reduced integration allowance? So, how much is paid and how much does it cost to live in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170417	It's very individual. But what I think has been important in relation to the integration service is that you should not come to Denmark to get a high public service. That should not be the purpose of coming to Denmark. You have to come to Denmark if you have a need for protection... then you can apply for asylum... and it shouldn't be because you can get a high public service. Now we have changed it from integration service to repatriation service, because it is precisely not the purpose to come up here and get a service in order to be integrated. It must be temporary if you have a need for protection, and that is the case. Then, as far as possible, you have to be self-employed. So, to the point of saying that because you are on return service, integration benefit, or whatever you want to call it, you are forever, I would say that in the vast majority of cases it is temporary. So the very best thing is either to get people a job, or they have to go back when there is peace in their homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170515	Then we can thank the Conservative rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA who is now being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219170528	Thank you very much. This is the last financial law of this parliamentary term, and at Inuit Ataqatigiit we welcome the new tradition of the North Atlantic members being invited to the financial law negotiations. It is a step in the right direction. In the 2019 Finance Act and for the coming years, the government had already set aside 85 million. kr. to the Commonwealth. That's 25 million, on the one hand. kr. to the cultural sector, on the one hand, and 60 million on the other. kr. in government reserves. We in Inuit Ataqatigiit also know that it has become a personal matter for the Prime Minister to break down prejudice and build trust between Greenland and Denmark. And this means quite specifically that in the years to come we will see more television broadcasts and that there will be a larger cultural meeting between Greenlandic and Danish young people when students have better opportunities to study with each other. This also means that Greenlandic students who are in Denmark, who need a better Danish, will be supported more in the coming years. And I know that the Greenlandic Houses in Denmark are already well in the process of planning this good initiative. The government intends to get the Kingdom community on the school schedule, and this is what Inuit Ataqatigiit hopes that the other parties in the Folketing will back up in the public school settlement, because when we know more about each other, we also break down barriers, and we replace prejudices with curiosity. So thank you for that effort. It is a very good basis to work on, because in the Kingdom community we need to know more about each other. We also need to build a bridge in the Kingdom Community to a greater extent, but it also requires that both sides at both ends of the bridge want equality and cooperation. Next year it will be 10 years since we gained autonomy in Greenland. We have not taken a single area, and it also shows that there is a great deal of work for us both here in the Folketing and in Inatsisartut in relation to the areas we are doing on behalf of Greenland. Here in the Folketing we must continue to strengthen the 32 areas for which we have a responsibility. With the Danish Finance Act for 2019 and the coming years, the work is well under way. Above all, we see a strengthening of the area of justice. Funds have been allocated to the National Defence Office and to strengthen that effort. Funds have been set aside for preventive action in relation to criminals. And in the new year, we also hope for an equalisation in the wage differences between asylum officers and police officers in Greenland. All of this is important prerequisites for everything else we do in the area of justice, so it's really good steps that have been taken with this financial law. We would also like to thank the Minister for Justice for doing this work in Inuit Ataqatigiit. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we are ambitious in the area of justice and we know that the North Atlantic unit in the Ministry of Justice is under some pressure, but we also know that the many skilled professionals in justice in Greenland are under some pressure. But what we can look back on in the coming years is that there have been clear improvements in the area of justice, so we would also like to use the opportunity to thank both the Ministry and the many skilled professionals we have in Greenland. In the coming years, a Greenlandic entrepreneurship house will be established in Denmark and we will explore the possibilities of establishing an Arctic investment fund in cooperation with Greenland. It is a really, really interesting work that we look forward to. The Danish Parliament has also chosen to support Greenland's efforts to expand the airports of Ilulissat and Nuuk, and this is a work that will be launched in the coming years and which we look forward to. Working for a stronger economy and a more self-sustaining economy is an important part of the work on self-government. Therefore, Inuit Ataqatigiit also values the cooperation between Greenland and Denmark on industrial development. We would also like the foreign policy we are pursuing to focus more on trade policy and increased equal cooperation in terms of strengthening business and opportunities for investment in the Arctic. Another area we need to strengthen is human growth, which is also needed in Greenland. Every year 300 Greenlandic students from all over Greenland come to Denmark, and today, when children are placed outside the family or living in vulnerable families, it is socially wrong to have a contact family that cannot support the post-school student sufficiently during their stay in Denmark. Unfortunately, we have seen some glaring examples of this over the past few years, and that is why we have also proposed from Inuit Ataqatigiits that we strengthen our efforts in relation to contact families with Greenland's post-school students. We propose this in the project Ikinngutit, which means friendships in Greenlandic. It is a project that Inuit Ataqatigiit hopes that in the coming years we will be able to help realise it. Another important area that we have not given sufficient attention is to get more Greenlanders living in Denmark to work, and that is to secure the homeless Greenlanders who are in Denmark, roof over their heads and ensure a dignified life for everyone, including for the socially vulnerable Greenlanders. Although we know that the vast majority of Greenlanders living in Denmark are well-functioning, we are still overrepresented in social statistics. We see that, in particular, the group of young homeless Greenlanders in these years is increasing. This is an area in which Inuit Ataqatigiit will work to be strengthened in the coming years. With Greenlandic glasses there have been many battles, but there have also been many victories in this financial law process. We are going to meet another exciting year, and we hope that we can continue to work towards a greater understanding of each other, not only here in the Folketing, but throughout the Kingdom community. The Danes are very good at imagery and proverbs. They are sometimes a little strange for us who come from Greenland. I also find it sometimes difficult to use these sayings. But the proverbs are important because they help to increase understanding of each other and also increase understanding in the political debate. One of the sayings that you have in Denmark is that if you point fingers at others, at least three fingers point back at you. This is also true when we talk about the Kingdom Community. Because as a Greenlandic MP you can stand in the corner and point the finger, but it really ends with you putting yourself in a corner, and we from Inuit Ataqatigiit will certainly not be involved in that. So we think it is really important to pursue a solution-oriented policy rather than a policy that focuses on criticism, or one that may even be confrontational in the way the messages are presented. Politics is the art of negotiation, but politics also requires that we seek solutions and that we seek some solid, constructive new paths. In fact, we think that with this draft budget some good steps have been taken, some good trends have emerged. And from Inuit Ataqatigiits we would therefore like to thank all the parties of the Danish Parliament for their cooperation this year. As Greenland's free voice in the Folketing, we are very pleased with the good cooperation with all the parties here in the Folketing. It is important that not only are we working with the blue block, but that it is the red block, which has also supported a great many of the initiatives and initiatives that we have taken. So we would like to thank you very much for that. Finally, I would like to say something in Greenlandic: Juullimi ukiortaassamilu pilluaritsi! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! Qujanaq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171422	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go. No? It was a mistake. Then it's Marcus Knuth. Is that a mistake? No, it's not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171438	It is not a mistake, and I would just like to be brief and thank the rapporteur for the very good cooperation. I am very pleased that we have the North Atlantic mandates in the negotiations, and I am therefore very pleased that the rapporteur has taken the floor. The wording on which the rapporteur put a great deal of emphasis, which is, after all, a community and cooperation across the national community, I think is very descriptive of the cooperation we have had. I am pleased that the rapporteur also mentions the possibility of getting the Kingdom Community on the table in Denmark, because it is precisely about the fact that it goes both ways when it comes to learning about each other's cultures and that it does not just go one way. This is also true of the rapporteur's work in the area of justice, both for the area in Greenland and for Greenlanders in Denmark, which we saw most recently with the agreement we have made, about conservation-dominated Greenlanders who choose to stay in Denmark, although they have the opportunity to go to Nuuk. So I just want to say thank you for the good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171539	Thank you very much. I will also sign for the good cooperation. Then I would also like to say that I often find, either when we say the word 'racial community' or when we say the word 'racial independence', that it derails the debate very quickly. I really think that a pragmatic approach is needed to ensure that we are self-government right now, and it is important that we do not skip self-government, but that we take on the task and know that there are very, very many tasks that we have to do today. And yes, there may well be some visions forward for what kind of relationship we need, but I am also quite sure that we can find out in remembrance as well. And that's kind of what I want to do. But thank you very much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171618	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171620	Thank you. I just have one question, and that is about the teaching about Greenland in Danish schools. I remember it was at least one of my favorite subjects when I was in school. I just need to know if the books underlying the teaching about Greenland are not in need of an update, so there will be new knowledge. After all, there has been quite a lot of development in Greenland. My question is: Is what is to be taught up to date, or is it about to need some new books with new knowledge written in Greenland by some of your people who have great knowledge of Greenland so that new knowledge can come to the Danish schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171710	Thank you. It is the case that a new study has been carried out which shows that Danish young people actually know a lot about Greenland, but not so much about Greenlanders, and that is a little thought-provoking in itself. I think there is a need for us to update our teaching material because it quickly becomes the case that it is the historical relationship between Greenland and Denmark or nature in Greenland that in some way becomes the subject. I just think it is important to emphasise that people also live in Greenland, and that we have a modern Greenlandic society that I think there are many who do not know so much about, because it will either be the many challenges we have in Greenland, in the social and educational field, or in one way or another it will be nature, which will be the image you have of Greenland. So there is no doubt that there is a need to do more. The government has, of course, also allocated some money precisely to secure some new material around Greenland for the folk schools. So we think that is really positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171807	Then it's Mrs. Anne Marie Geisler Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171808	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would also like to thank you for your good cooperation, despite the fact that it has been short. I am glad that we secured that the inmates in Herstedvester can retain their Greenlandic rights if they choose not to be transferred to the new asylum in Greenland. And I'd like to wish you a merry Christmas, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171832	Thank you very much. I would also like to express my particular thanks for the good cooperation. The rapporteur is a deputy, but he has achieved a very great thing. I am very pleased with the cooperation that has been specific to the inmates on Herstedvester. This has happened in collaboration with many of the parties both in red and in blue, so it's a really good example of this broad collaboration and how important it is in relation to Greenland. Thank you very much and merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171858	Thank you to the rapporteur. A brief comment was made on the subject, and that is Mr. Rune Lund, who has a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171907	I would also like to comment on the situation of the inmates in Herstedvester who choose not to be transferred to Greenland. After all, it is also a matter that we in the Enhedslisten have been pursuing, and we are very pleased that something very good has happened here, that one could now continue to have some of the rights that have been enjoyed so far, among other things. in relation to diet. How does the rapporteur view the agreement reached? Has the goal been fully achieved, or are there some additional things that might be relevant to make improvements in the light of the agreement that has been made? It would be nice to hear the rapporteur's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219171949	Thank you very much for the question. It's very relevant to ask questions about. Something I just found out yesterday is also that there will be aid swearers forward for the Greenlandic inmates on Herstedvester, and I think that is very fine. So I actually think that agreement is quite reasonable and that we have got quite a lot of things in this process that has been around the inmates on Herstedvester. When we had the third reading, I unfortunately forgot to mention the Enhedslisten, which has also supported our work, so I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for that support. Where it could be said that we could use some strength forward in the area of justice is in relation to the victims. We have 34 times as much personal crime in Greenland, and this also means that we focus very much on the inmates, because many of these laws are being put forward, which are really about the criminals, more than they are about the victims of those violations, and we want to promote this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219172047	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219172051	It sounds incredibly relevant to continue further down that path. If we are to look at how the legal system generally works in Greenland, and look at the tasks that the police and the judiciary have to carry out in Greenland in relation to the situation in Denmark, how does the rapporteur think that the standards are in Greenland for what to offer citizens in Greenland, in relation to what police, courts, justice and criminal justice can offer in Denmark? What does the rapporteur think it is necessary for us, because we are together in the Kingdom, to have uniform standards, uniform levels in all parts of the Community? What does the rapporteur think it would be appropriate to implement more generally in the area of justice, so that we can ensure that there is a more uniform level of what can be offered throughout the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219172155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219172157	Thank you very much for the question. It is, of course, the whole essence of the self-government law, precisely that we must try to ensure more equal standards in the areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. I think that when you look at the area, there have been good improvements over the past few years. As I said, I think that a greater focus on the victims would be preferable. We have virtually no efforts in relation to the victims, but we focus more on the measures. Then I also think that there is a need for a democratic debate on whether we really should crack down on the offences that exist. Today we do not have penalties in Greenland because we do not have a criminal law as such. But creating a framework of measures seems to me to be really fine. Today, for example, it is. Only the chief of police and the national judge who sits down and decides what it will cost to commit a given offence. I think that could be raised to a democratic level, so we had a slightly more open process about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219172257	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in line is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, NQ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219172308	Much of the work in the Folketing is about meeting with different people and listening to their thoughts and wishes for Greenland. As one of the representatives of the Greenlandic people, I have chosen to live in our country and commute back and forth between Greenland and Denmark. In Greenland I can meet citizens and the Greenlandic politicians and organisations who have their home in Greenland on a daily basis. These both formal and informal meetings help to ensure that my policy in the Danish Parliament is linked to life in Greenland • a life far away from Denmark, a life far away from Christiansborg. As a Greenlandic elected member of parliament, I have a great desire that our work in the Folketing should leave tangible results for Greenland and the Greenlandic citizens in Denmark. I would therefore like to acknowledge that the Minister for Finance has chosen to listen to our input and has made use of our capabilities in the appropriations that concern us in Greenland. There's been a lot on the program this year. Last month, in Inatsisartut, we dealt with the major investments at the new airports in Greenland, which are intended to provide us with a significant and better infrastructure and create opportunities and growth in our business community. I see this agreement as a best practice in the Kingdom Community, where together we set the framework for a business cooperation between Greenland and Denmark, an agreement that has been based on an equal cooperation between our government in Nuuk and the Danish government. This is a positive paradigm shift in our parliamentary Greenlandic work in the Folketing, where we put action behind the words, in relation to how Denmark can best help to promote development in Greenland within the framework of self-government. The proposed Finance Act also provides for a pool of 25 million. kr. to raise young people's knowledge of the kingdom community. The funds are intended to launch tangible initiatives such as study trips, folk high school stays and documentaries on the Kingdom Community. I believe that this initiative will make a positive difference, especially for Danish young people, who will be able to learn more about our common history and the diversity of our culture and language. Earlier this year, a large number of organizations associated with Greenland initiated a citizens' proposal to get the Kingdom community on the school schedule. History and cultural dissemination about the Kingdom should be on the mandatory school schedule in Denmark if we are to make Danish young people much better in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I am therefore pleased to hear that the government is trying to find a majority in the public school circle so that we can get the Kingdom community on the compulsory curriculum. This will really strengthen the knowledge of the Kingdom community. It is not only in relation to Danish young people that there is a need to strengthen co-existence in the Kingdom community. As a Greenlander you are a Danish citizen, but many may need help with the Danish language, especially when you come as a new associate with Denmark as a Greenlandic student. I have therefore previously called for a more consistent and coherent effort in relation to Danish courses for Greenlanders in Denmark. This applies both to our resourceful students and to the vulnerable citizens who need help with the Danish language. That is why I am pleased that 20 million have been set aside. kr. for courses in Danish academic language use for Greenlandic students as well as a turbo course programme so that students can be better equipped before the start of their studies. Our vulnerable citizens also need a helping hand. One person who perishes in our society is one too many. It is therefore very worthwhile if, as a society, we prevent people from getting into social problems. That is why I can be worried that the financial settlement has agreed to close the rate pool without, at the same time, having a plan for what will replace the pool. A large number of initiatives that have helped socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark have been kicked off by investment pool funds. These are often projects via the Greenlandic Houses, which have ensured that Greenlanders have been helped properly when they have come to Denmark • projects that have ensured a dignified help at eye level for the vulnerable Greenlanders who may need it. In this context, I also note that there are still separate appropriations in the Finance Act that are targeted at vulnerable Greenlanders. It is good that the focus is still on our weakest. Thus, 4 million have also been set aside. kr. in the Finance Act for an extension of the social inclusion efforts of the Greenland Houses, which would otherwise have expired next year. As you know, the police and the judiciary in Greenland are a Danish responsibility for an area which has needed great and up-to-date improvements for many years. Over the last year, I have sensed a political will to improve the Greenlandic justice system, both black and white in the government base and through the funding of the Finance Act. These are small steps for the better, and this shows that the Greenlandic mandates are being listened to. This year, for example, 5 million have been set aside. kr. to strengthen crime prevention efforts in Greenland and 3.5 million. kr. to strengthen the national defence office. In addition, a cover has been set up for the remuneration of police and criminal services staff in Greenland, an area which has been neglected for too many years. Greenlandic officers are paid less than their Danish colleagues despite the same training and the same employer. Most recently, the Prisons Association has demanded that the government step in with an additional appropriation on the Finance Act for Greenlandic asylum officers. It is, of course, so urgent that they propose that the appropriation should already be included in this budget law. The pay gap between a Danish and a Greenlandic asylum officer is far too great a cry for political action. Yesterday we finished the law on the abolition of a system that sent Greenlanders in custody to serve in Denmark. The system has been criticized for many years for violating human rights. The draft law has therefore also been more than 20 years in the process, as the Legal Affairs Commission was asked back in 1994 to consider how special detention centres could be set up in Greenland. In this parliamentary year, the first prison in Greenland is opened better late than never. It is gratifying for those sentenced to be able to serve their sentence of measure in their country of origin from the new year, but it also requires attention from the Ministry of Justice if the prison is to get a good start. There must be no shortage of asylum officers due to poor pay and working conditions. The convicted must continue to have access to activities and medicine on an equal footing with Danish inmates. The police and judicial area in Greenland continues to require our full attention in the financial legislation work for the coming year. Legal certainty in Greenland must be strengthened, so that our legal certainty is at the same level as the Danish one. There are still 14 out of 60 settlements which do not have the law's representative in the form of a municipal bailiff. The legal proceedings are longer in Greenland than they are in Denmark, and there are not least obsolete detentions where human rights must be at odds. There's a lot to do. I know that the political will is present in the Chamber, so let us continue the work in this area, because we are still a long way from the goal. It is now more than 5 years since the National Audit Office made a devastating criticism of the preparedness in Greenland, including a serious criticism of the lack of charts which, as you know, have been delayed for several years because of the relocation of the Spatial Data Board to Aalborg. There is still much to be done. The Greenlandic community in Denmark accounts for more than 18,000 people. For them there is one Greenlandic priest under the Danish Finance Act. The desire for at least one more priest and for his own Greenlandic congregation council has been expressed for several years. It is a great wish that we have yet to achieve. The establishment of voluntary preparedness, the continued acquisition of data to support submission to the continental shelf as well as increasing traffic challenges in Greenland waters require more investment in Greenland to ensure our common ambition to be first movers in the Arctic. As you know, this is definitely the last budget debate in this parliamentary term. I would therefore like to commend the government for taking the North Atlantic mandates on board when it comes to funding for the Kingdom community. From this point of view, I would urge that the system be continued on the other side of the parliamentary elections, whether it be a blue, green or red government. We all have a wish that our political work in the Folketing should leave concrete and tangible results. We do this by listening to each other. The government is to be commended for listening to the Greenlandic mandates along the way and at the same time has shown a fundamental will to put action behind the words. But there is still much to be done. I would like to take this opportunity to say a very merry Christmas to all of you in this Chamber and all of your colleagues. Because tomorrow I'm going back to the snow to celebrate Christmas with my family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219173312	Thank you, and you too, Mrs Aleqa Hammond. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219173333	Thank you, sir. President. Once upon a time there were so many years ago that the Danish Treasury found it difficult to find money for the operation of the state's theatre in the Faroe Islands. Amtmand Hilbert solved the problem by borrowing money from Føroya Banki, whose cash supply was bogged down due to a large savings from the Faroese. We're back in time during World War II. When the war ended and the Danish state tried to roll the legislative and executive power over its own circumstances, which the Faroe Islands had built up through the separation from Denmark, the Faroese had sufficient self-consciousness to refuse and choose the path of independence. It was the beginning of a long life hold between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, which has basically been about the rule of the islands. The Home Rule Act was the result of this bickering. The Prime Minister's envoy in the Faroe Islands, Niels Arup, also recommended that the Danish state use all kinds of funds to get the Faroese to come closer to Denmark and accept the state of unity Denmark, and that it included the Faroe Islands. Some of them were quite clever, among other things. more frequent royal visits and generous distribution of knight's cross and other orders. There was also more money on the table, which gradually flowed into the public Faroese economy and created a growing dependence on transfers from the Danish state. The transfers only accounted for well over 1 per thousand of the Danish state budget, but at one point it amounted to 20-25 per cent. of the total expenditure on the national government budget and therefore had a highly addictive effect on the behaviour of Faroese politics. In a Republican's optics, the Danish state thus continued to secure control over the Faroe Islands and its territorial waters, which are twice as large as the Danish one, for 1 thousandth of the Danish state budget. The merchantship in Denmark does not deny itself, and we could learn something from that. For a similar disposition from the Faroese side, it would mean that for an investment of 6 million. kr. gained control of an area the size of Britain. But none of this has ever been able to stifle the Faroese will to stand on their own feet and be master of their own house. With an irrefutable will, the Faroese people have steadily and stubbornly fought for their own independent existence among other nations. Block subsidies were unilaterally reduced by one third back in 2001 from one billion. kr. and frozen at the current level of 642 million. kr. One area after another has been taken home and now it is seriously thinning out those who are left behind. Faroese language and culture have flourished over the years. The infrastructure is revolutionised and tolerates comparison with the most modern in the world. The level of education is among the highest in the world, and the Faroese University tempts several young Faroese couples to spend their most dynamic years on the islands. Although we face major challenges, like most other nations, in heavy areas such as the social sector and healthcare, we see a population increase of 1.5%. a year and an average life expectancy higher than in Denmark. It is 82.3 years, compared with 80.9 years in Denmark. We do not know about unemployment at the moment, because considerable investment is being made in the primary industries, and population growth is making further demands on the development of society. In fact, we have also managed to embrace the global challenge of our growing exports to all the countries of the world and are now also seeing a high growth tourism. The results also blink on the economic lights. A surplus of nearly 400 million is being budgeted. kr. on state finances in 2019, and keeping it straight, we have accumulated a surplus of 1.3 billion. kr. up to 4 years. The Faroese municipalities have no net debt and the net government debt of 1.1 billion. kr. is equal to 5%. of the Faroese gross domestic product. It is all the more important that the frozen block grant from Denmark has been reduced to approximately 7%. of total government revenue and gross national product per head of population The population is at the same level as in Denmark and other Nordic countries, minus Norway. We have thus managed to re-establish a self-sustaining economic foundation. Of course, there have been some trips to the ropes along the way, but it seems reasonable, because growth is not based on loan financing, either for public or private, as savings have been solid in both sectors over the last few years. We must not go back to the conditions of economic dependence where other societies have a decisive influence on our own actions. On the contrary, we must actively pursue economic foundations, and the dismantling of block subsidies is a natural continuation of this development. But the positive economic development is not reflected in the formal political distribution of power between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. Here a post-colonial concept of Danish domination continues to flourish, which is defended externally in a very narrow interpretation of the framework of the constitution. It is implemented in cash, including: when Faroese authorities enter the boned floors in global contexts. Here one must confine oneself to presenting oneself as a representative of the Kingdom of Denmark as far as the Faroe Islands are concerned. That is a pity, because we can build a much more forward-looking and trusting relationship between countries if we together seek to create an inclusive framework based on mutual respect for each other's sovereignty. Last week, DIIS held an exciting conference on the modernisation of relations between the countries of the North Atlantic and Denmark. with inspiration from the Personal Union, which was concluded in 1918 between Denmark and Iceland. The experts said that it could be done then, because Iceland was not financially dependent on Denmark and they had a group of educated people who were competent to solve the new tasks. But that was also linked to the will of both sides to conclude the agreement. We are in the same place as Iceland was then just much more prosperous. And we must continue on our journey out of the way of independence. Of course, foreign policy room for manoeuvre, international recognition of the right to self-determination and the principle of irrevocability mean that legislative power cannot be revoked unilaterally to weigh heavily in the future. It can be solved as individual changes. But it is better solved in its entirety by an agreement on a personal union, which includes both cooperation and independence. Although it means farewell to block grants and members of parliament, we can continue and develop relations on foreign and defence policy, research and education, health and the environment, trade and economics, monetary institutions and judicial institutions, and not least culture and people, but now on an equal basis, where nothing is expected but mutual respect and effort for common benefit. But here we already have a number of examples of respectful cooperation in several fields, for example. on the removal of personal, family and inheritance rights, on the objectives of the world and on the digitisation of archives relevant to Faroese history and culture in Danish archives. However, in any case, I recommend the present and future governments to let go of conservative constitutional interpretations and focus on developing respectful and up-to-date cooperation between the countries and leaving the old Niels Arup model in the history books where it belongs. On top of this humble invitation, I wish you all a merry Christmas and happy New Year and thank you for the past year and also send a little greeting home to the Faroe Islands: Gleðilig jól and gott nýggjár!
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174309	I think we would say the same, but we have a brief remark from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174313	Thanks for the speech. I came in a little late, but I think I got the most important points. I have had the pleasure of reading Charlotte Langkilde's book on the Faroe Islands, which was published this autumn. And what really strikes you is how gently the Danish state has actually collaborated with the Faroe Islands, so that together you could develop and develop the Faroese society to become a modern nation. I thought of that book when I listened to Mr. Magni Arge's words about independence. So my question is: With the things we now know about Faroese and Danish cooperation over time, would it not be in the interests of the Faroe Islands to stay in a kind of protective embrace in the Atlantic Ocean, where Denmark guarantees the continued development of the Faroe Islands, and where the Faroe Islands basically have de facto autonomy, but have the natural protection that a country like Denmark can provide to the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174426	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174427	I don't really know what kind of protection you're thinking about, i.e. whether it's a military protection or whether it's another protection. I am convinced that what has created the great development in the Faroe Islands over the last 100, perhaps 150 years, is the will to fend for itself and the will to make its own progress and to develop its own country for its own people and for its own culture. And it is the most important drive in any society in the same way as it is for self-employed people who take responsibility for themselves. It's definitely number one. Being underneath and being conditional on being protected by someone else does not provide the drive needed to create such a great advance as you have seen in the Faroe Islands. I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174522	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174523	To that extent, I agree, and it is very impressive what the Faroe Islands have created from 18 wind-blown islands. You're caught by greatness when you see things like that. I am actually just thinking that the Faroe Islands are a country of about 50,000 inhabitants, and you need military protection, and you also need economic protection if things really go wrong. And the Faroe Islands' economy is bound up with relatively few earnings opportunities, among others. fishing. So would it not be in the interest of the Faroese to have some connection with Denmark so that one can continue to have a bright future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174606	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174607	I don't know if you really listened to what I said. I do not think there is anything to prevent good cooperation for a long time to come, for example. with the model that was seen with the personal union with Iceland. There was cooperation between two self-employed countries which formed part of joint cooperation under a personal union. I can imagine. I just want to reserve the right for the Faroe Islands to decide for themselves to what extent one is involved in the cooperation and how one is involved in the cooperation, in the same way as Denmark itself determines to what extent one is involved in it and when one resigns.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174642	Even if we're approaching Christmas, we should remember not to use direct indictment. But we say thank you and move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219174654	Thank you. Like the other North Atlantic Members, I am not going to say so much about the purely domestic priorities of the Finance Act, but I would like to congratulate the government on the priorities that concern the Faroe Islands. I think this budget law is a fine little loop on the excellent cooperation we have had in recent years. It is so that when you knock on a rock with a hammer, nothing happens the first time or the second time. But you keep knocking, you break the stone in the end. The last battle will bring the breakthrough, but all the others are equally important. I have infinitely often stood here and beaten with a verbal hammer on the fact that knowledge of the kingdom community is not good enough. It's too limited. Again and again from different angles I've hit the stone. I have talked about the fact that it would create understanding and prevent misunderstandings between the countries if teaching about the Danish community was included in the Danish primary school, not least if Danish pupils made more frequent study trips to the Faroe Islands. And with this bill, the stone breaks. Of course, I'm not gonna take credit for that. It is a long debate that has led to this recognition that something has to be done. But I think the punches from my hammer have also helped. So much praise to the government for seeing the reason and necessity of it. I have already spoken to people who are very interested in arranging trips to the Faroe Islands for example. Danish students and the other way around, and people who are interested in making TV and radio programmes from one of the three countries on themes that are not part of the daily mainstream news stream, but are relevant to people in the other countries. How the money allocated to it is to be spent remains somewhat unsolved, but I am going to ask a number of questions to the government about how it is to be used. Javnaðarflokkurin is not involved in the actual financial law negotiations, and we neither want nor demand that, because our voters do not pay taxes in Denmark. That would not be fair, we think we should be involved in all the negotiations. However, during the parliamentary term we have had some discussions with the Minister for Finance, where we have looked at whether there are projects that have earned joint Danish-French funding. This time we have agreed on two projects: a cultural house and the preservation of a 200-year-old Danish-Færøsk hospital, which is in the Faroe Islands, which is now to be renovated and become a museum and also used as Fountain House. The posts do not fill the whole world with the Finance Act, but they are essential for the implementation of the projects and their implementation is, of course, of crucial importance for a number of people. I'll sign for it. I would also like to congratulate the Finance Minister for the overall political • opposite the party-political/tactical approach he has had in our conversations. I have clearly said that if we were to regain our mandate in the next parliamentary elections, we would point to a Socialist Prime Minister. And then the Finance Minister could very easily be tempted to think tactically and make no deal with me. He hasn't done that, and I think it's quite nice. Personally, it will be an example to me when I am in debate with the many cynics who say that politics is only about tactics, that there is only this Frank Underwood-like policy. My party could also be tempted to think tactically. We could say that if we get a mandate next time, we will be open to pointing out a bourgeois Prime Minister if we get an agreement that is good enough. We could say, as two of the other North Atlantic parties stated in the Politiken on 10 November, that we will not point to any stateminster and will not associate ourselves with any of the blocs until after the elections. That is to say, if neither red nor blue can pattern 90 seats on election night, then there must be an open debate with North Atlantic members on who is to be Prime Minister. We in our party do not think that is right. The broad lines of the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands must be agreed in negotiations between the national government and the government. We do not think that a member of parliament has a democratic mandate to enter into such negotiations. We also think that it might look a little bit like you put your vote to auction: who offers the highest? And whoever offers the highest price gets the support and then becomes Prime Minister. We do not think it is fair to the Danish people's government that on election night we do not know who has won or lost, because that will depend on what the blocs can each offer to the North Atlantic members. Nor do we think it is right that Faroese relations should be decided in a debate here in the House. We believe that this would be a step backwards for Faroese self-government. So to make it clear: we will point to the President of the Social Democratic Party if we get the chance after the elections. But as this Finance Act shows, it certainly does not mean that we see the blue parties as our opponents, let alone enemies, certainly not. They're good partners. They have not been our enemies in the past years, and they will not be after the elections, no matter who loses and wins the next parliamentary election. All that remains is to say: thank you for this parliamentary term. It has been good, I think, there have been many results. We haven't got all ours through, but we've gotten a lot through. Happy election, and Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175335	You too. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175338	Thank you for another good speech. After all, we are in complete agreement with Mr. Sjúrður Skaale in that knowledge of the Kingdom is not good enough in the three countries we have, and especially perhaps not in Denmark. That is why we have also listened to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. In the context of the current primary school negotiations, I have simply proposed that we put knowledge of the Kingdom community on the agenda in such a way that it could be made one of the points of history teaching. This will then mean that the primary schools in Denmark will teach the Kingdom Community, i.e. about the Faroe Islands, about Greenland, about our common history. Unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party has delayed the negotiations. If they had not done so, we might even have had the opportunity to congratulate each other in this Chamber. So if sir... Sjúrður Skaale might be able to use his influence towards social democracy and say to them that it is important that we now have these primary school negotiations carried out so that we can get a knowledge of the kingdom community, so it would be nice. Was that something that the rapporteur could help with?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175452	I'd like to thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for his efforts in this field. That's great. I also know that he's been very passionate about this, and he's shown a lot of interest, a lot of commitment to these relationships. I'll take his advice with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175508	Thank you. This gave rise to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen asked for the floor again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175511	I'll look forward to it. I hope that the rapporteur has the influence I think he has. I would like to point out that last year the Danish People's Party helped the Faroe Islands get some money to digitise Faroese archives. For me, this is just an example of how important it is that we work together and that we can enrich each other, and that Denmark is a good thing for the Faroe Islands, just as the Faroe Islands are a good thing for Denmark. So does the rapporteur not agree with me that independence would probably be more detrimental to the Faroe Islands than remaining in the Commonwealth?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175558	That is a very big question. For me, community and independence are not contradictions. They are in many fields each other's prerequisites. I do not think that, in order to become self-employed, we should get out of anything. Self-determination and self-government and independence can easily be achieved in a community. If you look at the small nations of Europe, which are what you call self-employed people, who have sovereignty • San Marino, Liechtenstein, Andorra etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219175639	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are no more brief comments. I'm here to postpone the sitting until 8:00 a.m. 19.00, where we start with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219185959	The sitting is resumed. We will continue the debate on Finance Law, and the next person to speak is the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219190010	Thank you for a very positive debate. Yes, it may not always be true of the words about the Finance Act, but for example. Social democracy could not find much to criticise the Finance Act for, and they therefore chose to spend their time most of all discussing an issue that has nothing to do with the Finance Act. I also think it is positive that almost all parties were praised along the way. So, Enhedslisten praised the Danish People's Party for changing the rules regarding the regulation of transfer income. The Left praised the Social Democratic Party for continuing the economic policy of the government of the VK. And the Radical Left praised or almost praised the Prime Minister; most of all they just quoted him from the opening speech. On the other hand, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen praised the government for involving North Atlantic MPs in the financial legislation of recent years. Indeed, all the North Atlantic members said that the involvement that has been has been good and strengthening. I would like to start by saying that as something positive: we have praised each other quite a lot. In fact, even the employees of the Ministry of Finance were praised along the way. But there is also very good reason to be well satisfied and satisfied with developments in Denmark, well satisfied with the economic situation. And before ten hours ago we started the debate here, Denmark's Statistics came with the latest positive news, namely that Denmark's net debt has now turned into a net worth. Falling rates on government bonds etc. and price increases on Ørsted, together with nice profits in 2017 for example, have brought us back into a position where as a society we now have a public sector that has more good than it owes away. But even though it may be boring for some to talk about how well things are going in the economy, I will start there anyway. The Danish economy is in a boom. Growth in GDP over the last three years has been above 2%, and growth is also estimated at 11⁄22%. in the years 2018-2020. Employment has never been higher in Denmark. During this reign alone, it has increased by more than 153 000 people, and we expect that employment will increase further in the coming years. Unemployment, on the other hand, is declining and now the lowest in 10 years. The recovery is widely based throughout the country. Employment opportunities have improved in all the municipalities in the country • in 98 out of 98 municipalities there is a higher employment rate today than there was in the 2015 elections. At the same time, the main part of the increase in employment is due to the fact that more people over 60 years of age have entered employment. Barely a third less than a third! There are, of course, an increasing number of companies reporting a shortage of labour as a reduction in production, but in fact the rate of increase in wages is still moderate. Private consumption is primarily driven by rising incomes and credit growth to households is relatively modest. It is actually quite unique that so many signals about Danish economy point in the same direction at the same time as it is happening at the moment. Therefore, there is good reason to remember that the strong economy does not come of its own accord; it is due to clear choices, and this is due to concrete political decisions. The foundation for the progress of the Danish economy is structural reforms that have gradually increased labour supply. Without reforms, the recovery would probably already be dampened due to labour shortages, and it is in particular the agreement on later withdrawal that increases labour supply in these years. The experience so far of the increase in the early retirement age shows that the people concerned are working largely unabated until their new increased early retirement age, and this is a huge success. Without these reforms, public finances would be significantly weakened as we live longer and are healthier for longer. Despite the reforms, the pressure on the labour market is increasing in these years. Employment is currently increasing faster than labour supply and there are fewer available resources in the labour market. In particular, construction is experiencing a shortage of labour as a limitation of production, but also service and industrial enterprises are increasingly facing challenges with a shortage of labour. In a boom with increasing pressure on the labour market, it is important that we use economic policy to reduce capacity pressure, so fiscal policy is therefore designed to contribute to a sustainable recovery and it is geared towards the objective of balance in the structural public sector. At the same time, it is important to maintain that further reforms, large and small, which increase labour supply, can help to reduce pressure and prolong the recovery. Most recently, with the agreement on the Financial Act for 2019 and the agreement on a new regulation of the retirement pension, we have also increased labour supply in the order of 1,350 full-time persons. The fact that more political parties shy away from reforms does not mean that pressure on the labour market is likely to increase in the years to come and the need for reform will also increase. The task now is to keep the recovery on track. We must avoid overheating and maintain an increase in employment. We are concerned with pursuing a responsible economic policy, and that is why we are gradually tightening up fiscal and structural policy in the coming years, so that we support the fact that the recovery is stable and lasts for several years. One of the things we are concerned with by the government is that the good times will benefit all Danes. That is why I am very pleased that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has concluded the agreement for next year's budget. We agree on a financial law for 2019 that ensures a significant priority for welfare. We are once again setting aside funds for health care, just as we have done in the previous financial laws, and with the 2019 Finance Act we prioritise more than 1 billion. kr. for health over the next four years. With these funds, we will ensure more effective and coherent action, including: in the hearing area and with improved vaccination efforts. We are also allocating funds for future health reform, and it is important that we continue to improve our health services for the benefit of patients, and it is precisely patients and greater proximity to health care that is our objective in the forthcoming reform. The government and the Danish People's Party have also chosen to give priority to the elderly area. We're gonna set off 650 million. kr. over the next four years, and the money will include: is used to support municipalities' efforts to combat loneliness, loss of courage, grief and suicide among older citizens. Fortunately, there are many who live longer, and that is positive, but a challenge in this regard is that many also experience their marriage mates or associates falling away, so they are left alone. The elderly, we want to come to a meeting and give a helping hand with the funds provided for in the Finance Act. With the agreement, we are also implementing a number of initiatives to support municipalities in their work to address recruitment challenges in the area of the elderly. We have a clear ambition that there should be lower absenteeism and several hours per day. employee. This will help to ensure better service for citizens, increase job satisfaction and create a better working environment. It is also important that we get some more people to apply to this area. One of the challenges of ensuring good care for the elderly in the coming years will be to have enough trained social and health assistants, it will be to have enough trained nurses, and therefore part of the Finance Act is also that we are making an effort to increase the opportunity to get more people into these educations, just as in recent years we have increased the number of places on nursing education, so that in the coming years we will see more trained nurses and thus have more opportunities to carry out the task. Indeed, we must ensure that all employees in the health and elderly sector are given the opportunity to contribute with their full potential. The priorities we have had this year must be seen in conjunction with the other initiatives that the government has already implemented with the financial laws of previous years. It is about means for a rock map scheme, lifting the staff in the care of the elderly and renovating and establishing kitchens around the country's nursing home, so more elderly people will find that it also smells like food before being put to the table. We shall also be putting forward 100 million this year. kr. both in 2019 and in the coming years for the efforts of the most mentally ill patients. It is a huge challenge that our psychiatry area has not been high enough, but now we are creating more beds for the most ill, and at the same time we must address another major, urgent problem, namely that too many young people today do not feel that they have satisfactory mental health. In fact, one in four young women between the ages of 18 and 26 does not themselves consider that she has good mental health, and therefore there is a need for us to help them back on track and to be better at both detecting and helping them with any problems they may have. The initiatives for which we set aside funds in the Finance Act must be seen in the context of the agreement on the rate pool, where some 900 million have been allocated. kr. over the next four years, and also with the agreement on the region's economy for 2019, which has been earmarked for 200 million. kr. to psychiatry every year in the future. Overall, the government and the Danish People's Party for 2019 continue to have a significant priority for the welfare area. We set aside more than 3 billion. kr. more over the next four years to welfare, and this must therefore be added to what we have already agreed with the National Association of Municipalities, where there is a boost of 1.7 billion. kr. in relation to the agreed levels for 2019 and 1 billion; kr. in a boost for the region's economy for 2019. At the same time as the boost in the economy, both for municipalities and regions, we must continue to give priority to the more than 535 billion. kr. already used in public consumption. This means that we must respond to the pressure of expenditure that comes with more elderly people and more children, without having to increase total public spending accordingly. For example, the firm and fair immigration policy pursued since the elections has meant that we have managed the influx in the area of asylum. This means that public expenditure on asylum accommodation, integration benefits, etc. is expected to fall from 9.9 billion. kr. in 2016 to 5,7 billion. kr. in 2019 • i.e. from 9.9 billion. kr. to 5.7 billion. kr. In addition, savings are made on services in municipalities, in regions, among others. schools, day-to-day services, hospitals, etc., and thus, because of the policy pursued, we have been freed more than 4 billion. kr. that can be used for better care of the elderly, good conditions for children in vulnerable families or better health, without having to increase public consumption accordingly. This is also a factor in the fact that the 2019 Finance Act has enabled us to increase the availability of pensioners, as well as the incentives for pensioners to go to work in their senior lives. We carry out a general increase in the retirement pension in 2019, and forward-looking, the retirement pension will be regulated with the normal wage development. With the agreement, we will also increase the incentives for pensioners to continue their presence in the labour market, even after retirement age. That is why we are implementing a senior premium, and we are increasing the deduction on labour income, and we are relaxing the escalation due to spouse's income. We also agree with the Danish People's Party that we terminate the settlement on the rate pool with effect from the next parliamentary elections, but in return, the government and the Danish People's Party will establish a new settlement on the regulation of public transfers as well as the establishment of mandatory savings for people on transfer income. I would like to thank the alternative for having already signed up today as a party that joins the conciliation and I hope that more parties will join in the coming days. Similarly, the Finance Act has agreed with the Danish People's Party to continue working on a consistent immigration policy. The foreign policy line pursued by the government and the Danish People's Party has helped to ensure that the influx is at the lowest level since 2008. There has been a lot of debate about the coming exit centre on Lindholm, and there has also been much that has been wrong. The point is that some 750 million are being set aside. kr. over the next four years for the establishment of the exit centre, operation of the site, training of police officers and other staff, increased police presence around Lindholm, etc. I would have preferred us to send out the group of deported criminal foreigners, rejected asylum seekers who have committed serious crimes, foreign fighters, etc. The whole idea is that they should go home and out of Denmark. But sometimes there are conditions that make it impossible for us to send exiled foreigners. Therefore, these groups will in future be required to stay at the Leisure Centre Lindholm. The migration restrictions are implemented while Denmark maintains its international focus and continues to comply with its international obligations. In fact, I am very surprised at the social democracy, which has made a great deal of sense in appearing as a party which supports a firm immigration policy but which fails every time it becomes concrete. Social democracy itself has talked about an island exit centre, but when it becomes concrete, you vote yellow. The Social Democratic Party criticises the self-supporting and repatriation benefits and the ceiling on cash benefits introduced by the government, which has helped more than 30,000 people to leave the cash benefits system. However, when concrete proposals are made later today to change the conditions, the party will vote yellow. It is a sledgehammer that can only cast doubt on whether the Social Democrats really intend to bow to the demands of all the parties which might form a parliamentary basis for a social democratic government. See, before the financial law agreement came into place, we also had a number of agreements concluded, among others. the agreement on vocational training for the future. This is one of the issues on which we have talked a great deal. That is to say, we were just talking about it until an agreement had been reached, and since then it has almost been forgotten in the debate. However, I would just like to emphasise here that the government is very pleased with the agreement that contains initiatives for a total of 2.3 billion. kr. more in relation to the draft budget. The agreement makes it more attractive to opt for vocational training. The agreement is a significant step towards giving craft industries the place they deserve in society. The agreement was concluded after a good and constructive collaboration with the Danish People's Party, which ended with a partial agreement on the financial framework, and the agreement on the economy was then the starting point for a broad agreement on vocational training. The government is also pleased that we have received support for our green billion in the Finance Act. Thus, we are investing 1 billion. kr. in the environment, nature and climate over the next 4 years. This means that we can continue the course in which we have increased the conversion of agricultural land to ecology, increased the establishment of natural forests, etc. And although none of the self-proclaimed green parties will take responsibility for funding, the government has put forward and will have adopted tomorrow the proposal to ensure a continued low tax on electric and hydrogen vehicles in 2019 and 2020. We will have scrapping schemes established, both for old cars and for old wood-burning furnaces, which will allow us to breathe a little more freely in Denmark's major cities in the future. We will have increased taxi driving requirements, and we will have increased the requirements for bus operations, which means that we will also have better air quality for the Danes. We are establishing a green natural pool to ensure that we can increase our biodiversity. And we have presented a plastic action plan, just as we have made an agreement with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on the promotion of circular economy, including establishing the so-called green national accounts, which have been demanded by many. We are doing all this at the top of a historically broad energy agreement, which will enable us to achieve 100% by 2030. renewable energy in our power outlets. At the same time, we have delivered on the ambition that the green transition takes place in such a way that it improves the individual's economy and supports a sustainable economy. And the agreement we entered into with Dansk Folkeparti on technology-neutral solar and wind supply in 2018 and 2019 has proved to give an even greater amount of renewable energy than provided. If we can continue along that path, the agreement will be even more effective in promoting the green transition than we have expected so far. Both very many rapporteurs and questions today have been concerned about how we should use the tax dollars, and too few have been interested in how we ensure that jobs, growth, prosperity, businesses and entrepreneurship are created, so how we give more Danes the opportunity to get into employment. Fortunately, the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed that it should be easier to operate in Denmark. Specifically, we allocate more than 100 million. kr. to reduce the burden on businesses. We abolish the administration fee for commercial waste and we follow up on the government's growth teams. We are also reducing taxes. This is among other things. to curb cross-border trade. Over the next four years we will use approx. 450 million kr. to reduce the tax on beer and wine. We will have the feed phosphate tax abolished, which is no longer of the same importance, since we have set a ceiling on how much feed phosphate can be used, and we will therefore reduce the costs for Danish agricultural companies. At the same time, as was also mentioned earlier in the debate, we are making an effort to promote the generational shifts by introducing a pawn letter model that will make it easier for the new generation of farmers to take over the farms that are there. Much more can be said about the Finance Act, but then among other things. Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party has carried out a very careful review of it, I would just like to say that as Finance Minister I am very pleased with the Finance Act. I am because it promotes our well-being, it increases the amount available to pensioners and it encourages a longer period of time in the labour market. It maintains the security and security of Denmark, it ensures a strict foreign policy, and it reduces taxes and improves conditions for business, all within the framework of a responsible economy. That is why, of course, I had also hoped that when it came to the social debate, our work here today would have great impact. In other words, if we are now spending a whole day and it is actually a good day on the ordinary labour market to discuss next year's Finance Act, then perhaps it would have put itself a little in the cover that was, the publicity that was, either in the traditional media or in those, we should say, more social media. But no, it is not the financial law agreement, this book that has been discussed. It's this book, the Højskole songbook, that's been discussed. And I'm really, really happy that so many have been out to express their support for the Danish song is a young blonde girl. I am delighted that so many people have said that now we have to relax a little bit with this culture of violation. And I am perhaps most pleased that it is a one-year-old story that has now got us out of the chairs, so maybe it's not so bad out there anyway. At any rate, I can see that from Mr. Magnus Heunicke and Mrs Mette Frederiksen to the Prime Minister and Minister for Justice there is a broad circle of politicians who agree that we should pay tribute to our high school songbook. I will do that by highlighting another song, not no. 162, • The Danish song is a young blonde girl, but no. 201, i.e. the Danes are found in many models, for life requires diversity. I think Ebbe Klivedal Reich has enriched us with a beautiful song. I think the debate here today shows that the Folketing is diverse, but that we work best when we work together. I hope that many will come to the commitment that has been invited to tomorrow after the votes, namely alsang in the Common Assembly, because it is the way of singing which politicians should remember that one cannot argue when one sings, one has to work together. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192338	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192342	Thank you, and also thank the Minister for Finance, for reminding us of all the good songs we have. And also thank you for a review of how the Minister of Finance sees the world. There was, however, one thing that was so lacking, and that was how the government views tax relief if it is allowed to continue after the next elections. Of course, I hope it doesn't. But if that were to happen, it might be interesting to know what is really government policy in this area. After all, the Conservative People's Party has been out to say that it is prepared to provide tax relief for 33 billion. kr., including a very large top tax relief. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is a bad idea. We believe that there is a need for us to invest in our welfare for our children and young people, that we have dignified care for the elderly, and also that, of course, we make sure that our health services work better than they do today before we start discussing tax cuts. But that is not the attitude of the Conservative People's Party. That is not the position of the Liberal Alliance either, and that is why my very simple question to the Minister for Finance this evening is: can the Minister for Finance rule out the possibility that if the government continues, the Conservative proposal could become a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192502	No, now it is the case that what happens when we go to the polls will explain, but I am, in fact, very much in agreement with the then Social Democratic-led government, which in 2012 chose to reduce taxes to increase labour supply, to strengthen the Danish economy, to promote the desire to make an extra effort. I am now looking forward to the New Year when the top tax limit will be raised based on the bill of the then Socialist-led government, namely a desire to raise the limit so that the tax will be reduced. Similarly, I very much agree with the fact that a reduction in corporation tax was made in the then socialist-led government, because, as was said at the time, lower corporate taxes will help to encourage more people to invest in Denmark. Now it is the case that the government has not taken a position on what the government is going to do after an election. The government consists of three parties. Each party has the full right to say and think what they are doing and to go to the polls for what they want, and then the voters have to decide from there, and then the Folketing must meet after the elections and put together a government from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192615	In any case, it can be said that the Minister of Finance does not deny that it can become a reality, and I think that is an interesting comment. Then the finance minister brings the subject to top tax relief. It is true that this has also been given under a social democratic government, but who were they given to then? Yes, it was the metal worker, it was the nurse who had hit the ceiling. But here we are talking about something quite different. Here we are talking about the Conservative People's Party proposing to grant further top tax relief for nearly 5 billion. kr. and raise the top tax ceiling up to 800,000 DKK. Let me say, then, that it could be very, very interesting to hear the country's Finance Minister, who just a few months before an election, said that the government does not quite know what to go for, but would not rule out that it could be very large tax cuts. So quite specifically in relation to top tax concessions: will the Minister of Finance rule out the possibility that this government, should it be re-elected, will introduce a top tax limit of DKK 800,000.?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192728	I understand that the Social Democrats think that the top tax concessions you make are right, and the top tax concessions others make are wrong. This is a very practical way to feel: if you have made a top tax relief, it is good if you have been there yourself, and if you have not been there, it is not good. Now it is the case that I have not commented on what will happen after an election, and I do not really intend to do that tonight either. I actually believe that most Danes expect that with six months left in the parliamentary term we will do our job and carry out the things we are doing. At least the government has a whole range of things going on. We have good negotiations which continue to take place. We have a desire to modernise our primary schools. We have a desire to have the agreement that will lead to an increase in the free amount of sugar so that more young people can earn more. So what happens after a choice, we make when there's a choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192817	The next question is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192820	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the Minister for Finance. I really would have asked for something quite different, but the question that came from Mr. Nicolai Wammen, demands a little more, I think. That's quite interesting, because what's gonna happen in a minute? It happens that the top tax limit changes from DKK 498,000. for 513,000 kroner. The Finance Minister's party is also part of the agreement made under the former Socialist-led government. Can the Minister of Finance tell us how to finance it? by the fact that the increase in the amount of availability of people on unemployment benefit, cash benefits recipients and people on early retirement falls from 2016 until 2023? It is an agreement that was made in 2012 under the leadership of the Social Democratic Government, and now it stands and says that all tax cuts are evil. So how bad were these tax cuts in 2012? Can the Minister not confirm both the amount and how to finance the 2012 tax agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219192919	I can fully confirm that a tax reform was implemented, which was funded, by lowering the rate of increase in transfer income during the period from 2016 to 2023. That was the way to get the money free that now allows you to lighten the tax by setting the top tax limit. I don't like the concept of evil tax relief. I don't think tax breaks are bad. In fact, I do not even think that tax increases are bad, they may be necessary, they may be annoying, they may be conducive to growth and they may be detrimental to growth. There was, in fact, a tax relief that we in my party, when we were outside the government, felt that we wanted to support, and that is why we helped to raise the border. We also accepted the funding proposed by the then government, namely that a higher top tax limit should be financed by means of less regulation for benefit recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193011	I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance can confirm that. There is also something a little strange when we talk about tax relief. I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party do not want the Danes to pay the highest possible tax at all. When you think about what we need the money for, we in the Danish People's Party want us to collect the tax that is necessary in order to have the welfare society for which we are all so proud of equal access to health, equal access to education and so on. But it doesn't hurt the Danish People's Party, whose hardworking Danes are allowed to keep a little bit more of the pay they get when they go to work. But what is strange is that one year, when you have government power, you can make tax cuts and you can finance it by taking away from the weakest, i.e. those on transfer income, and then when you sit in opposition, all tax cuts are wrong, whether they are low-paid or high-paid. We can just see now that the 2012 tax agreement has been implemented, and from 2016 to 2023 the funding will be made available to people on transfer income, who will be given a smaller amount of resources, because they will have to finance the top tax incentives, and among other things. also the corporate tax exemptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193120	I fully share the view that having a high tax is not an end in itself. Therefore, it is also that we have targeted the tax where we think that the tax has been too high or wrong or hit at a disadvantage or has been a brake on growth. One example is when, in February, we made an agreement to reduce the tax on the first income we have, in other words, to make the gain by entering the labour market somewhat greater. This helps to reduce the number of Danes for whom it is not worth working for whom the benefit of entering the labour market is too small. I think it is an incredibly important task to put the tax down for precisely that group, so that we can motivate some more people to take the work that is there, even if it is not exactly the dream job they want, or it may be on skewed working hours or outside the field of education where they have been trained. That is why it is important that we do not overestimate the tax and that, if we can, we also responsibly reduce the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193215	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193217	Thank you. I can hear that the Minister for Finance is actually very pleased with the economic situation. I just think that makes it even more absurd that, with this financial law, we are seeing again that education is being cut. It is billions of dollars that have disappeared from our common education system. We can see that this means that teachers are being fired, that teams are being decommissioned and that the quality of our education system is falling at all. It gets worse because every day the government continues these cuts. That is why I would like to hear: how can it be that the Left will not invest in the education that is absolutely crucial to all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193303	We just think it's important to invest. But we took power in 2015, when the economy was unsustainable. Budgeted with a public finance deficit on the EU's border. In fact, when it was updated in August, it was estimated that we were beyond the EU's borders and the limit of the Danish budget law. That is why it was essential for us to tighten up. One of the ways to tighten up was to extend the priority contribution to culture, education and education. Over the next two years, in 2020 and 2021, there will be a few unemployed crowns in the public sector, and in order to be able to reprioritize to other priority areas there will also be a re-priority contribution to education, education and culture in those years. From 2022 we believe that the money should remain in the areas, but that it may be a priority, that is to say, go to other things, if we wish, or back to the taximeters. This means that, for 2022, we have ensured that funding in the field of education, culture and education remains so that we can ensure that there is a good quality of education for our young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193421	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193422	It's crazy to wait years to stop these cuts and thus ensure a proper quality of education. The minister is talking about 2022, but we are probably some who hope that by then the minister will no longer be a minister. It's the whole business community, it's the educational institutions, it's the trade union movement, it's everyone who's been out saying that these cuts in education have extremely negative consequences for our common economy and for what we're going to live on in the future. How can the Left just ignore all warnings in this area? Isn't it time to do something and stop those cuts now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193458	The fact is that these are not cuts, but reprioritisations which mean that we spend money elsewhere in the public sector or actually spend it in the field of education. We have set aside 0.5 billion. kr. to promote and help the primary schools, which make a great effort to give the children better grades in Danish. It is, in fact, funds that have come because we have re-prioritized in the field of education. We have provided the means to have more training stations so that we can get some more places where we can take a medium-term higher education close to where we live, so that we do not see too many young people moving into the big cities to get an education and thus move away from rural areas. So we have actually reinvested some of the funds in this area. And with the agreement on vocational training it is 2.3 billion. kr. invested back in the education sector, in the draft budget. In fact, I think we can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193552	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193554	Thank you. I asked the Minister recently whether an overall overview of the greenhouse gas reduction and increase in greenhouse gas emissions could not be presented in the Finance Act, and I was given an answer here today that it is actually not really possible to draw up such an inventory. I was very sorry about that, because I know that it is a job that is being done elsewhere, and the OECD is doing a very serious job that Denmark could join and be a part of. Is it just closed country to the Minister of Finance, or is it something the Minister of Finance might want to look at next time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193639	After hearing the debate today, I have chosen to take the answer to Mr. Christian Poll with us, and I do not actually agree with the reading of the answer. If you read it, you can see that it is actually a review of which elements are pulling up or down respectively. What we cannot make an assessment of is how much the effect is. For example, the very first point states that we are spending some more money on research, that we are setting aside money for the EUDP and that we are creating a further pool for climate research in agriculture. I'm afraid I don't know what we're getting out of it today. I mean, unfortunately I cannot quantify what research funds we are setting off now will give of effect, but I can set a direction that I am quite sure will bring about reduction. With regard to the question of being able to do some things to reduce methane emissions, we have actually quantified it: that proposal alone means a reduction of 1.1 million. t CO2 My speaking time does not allow me to go through all the points, but I would just like to say that some of them clearly point in one direction. We also recognise that something is pointing in the opposite direction. For example: the increased transport allowance may mean that more people are carrying longer in their own car and this may have a negative effect on CO 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193802	Thank you. I have also looked at the answers that lie further down in the answer, and it is true that some of them can be quantified, and for some of the bids that lie, I would say that I may not quite agree with that, but what I am really asking is whether we are really doing this systematic and more forward-looking exercise every time we make finance laws in Denmark, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193830	I think that would be excellent. I am actually in favour of us getting a clear picture of what the Finance Act means for the green accounts, for our climate accounting. But there are just some elements in which it is traditionally the case that you place pools. For example, we have a pool for nature purposes. It's only when we know the coinage of it that we know exactly what's going on. We also need to assess what lowering taxes on border trade sensitive goods means in relation to the Danes' desire to trade borders in Germany, and at the same time also what it means for Swedes to want to drive to Denmark to trade. Therefore, there are some things which, no matter how good will one may have, I do not think one can know in advance when we sit next year and the coming years in December and vote on the Finance Act. But to the extent that you can, I am in favour of getting knowledge and clarity on the ground, including around the CO2 level.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193924	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219193929	In the Radical Left we sometimes start our group meetings by singing a song from the high school songbook, so I really liked the end of the finance minister and even a song about diversity. Then it won't get any better, not in my ears at least. Neither did it in 2015, when the Minister of Finance committed this chronicle in the Sunday newspaper, a chronicle that honored Denmark for those who can and will. I would just like to quote a single bite, that is actually the introduction: "Dear Jai-Li, Muhammad, Sergio and Latifah! Thank you for coming to Denmark and taking hold where the Danes can't or will. Thank you for helping to make Denmark a richer place. Because without you, Denmark wouldn't hang out quite as well. ▪ Now we write 2018 and the Finance Minister has become Finance Minister in a government supported by the Danish People's Party, and a paradigm change has been made, where some of these people have to be shown out, even if they are in work. Does the Minister of Finance agree that the Minister of Finance has moved quite significantly over these three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194047	Fortunately, I agree with myself three years ago. I still think it is excellent that we have many foreigners working in Denmark. In fact, what has happened over the past three years is that an increasing proportion of those employed in Denmark have a foreign passport and a foreign nationality. It is both Polish craftsmen, American engineers, Chinese IT people or Ukrainian feed masters, and I think that if the 250,000 foreigners working in Denmark chose to go home tomorrow, it would be difficult to have a mink furned, welded a windmill tower or served a cup of caffe latte in Copenhagen. But the point is that for me there is a difference between the immigrants we are asking to come because they have to work or because they want to study in Denmark, and then the refugees and family members who have come here. The difference is that if you are here as a fugitive and there is quiet in your home country, the starting point is that you have to return. If you then have a job that allows you to go into one of the integration schemes that are, the labour systems that are, then, for my sake, please. I also believe that Mr. Andreas Steenberg knows my position and that of the government, namely that we should lower the barriers so that it was possible to get more foreigners to come to Denmark and work, because it would help us to attract labour that could make Denmark stronger and richer, and because we know that the foreign labour force that earns just a little over DKK 200,000 is beneficial, thus contributing to a surplus in public finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194218	I am very pleased with much of the Minister for Finance's reply, and I very much agree with the first part. I'm just having a little trouble understanding that a Polack serving caffe latte to use that image is okay, but that an acid serving caffe latte should return home. I'm having a hard time understanding the difference. Why have the Left and the Finance Minister agreed to this paradigm shift, which says in the Finance Act that being in work should be given the least importance. That is quite contrary to the views of the Minister for Finance, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194301	I actually think that Mr. Knox... Andreas Steenberg would understand if Mr. Andreas Steenberg would. The fact is that with the agreement we have established that refugees coming to Denmark and family members coming to Denmark must be as self-supporting as possible and into the labour market, and our whole approach to them is that they must go out and support themselves instead of living on the benefits of others. The point is also just that if getting a job in itself meant that you automatically went from being a fugitive to becoming an immigrant and having the right to be here, the concepts of refugees and immigrants would be washed out. I insist that the two concepts are different, and we treat immigrants according to the rules on immigration and labour, and we treat refugees according to the rules on refugees. But, of course, I hope that the vast majority of refugees and family members who come to Denmark are in employment, and I welcome the fact that in recent years we have seen a marked increase just since 2015 doubling the proportion of refugees and family members who are in employment after 3 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194405	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194409	Thank you. After all, several of my colleagues have been asking about this re-priority contribution... why have we been dragging it so long? This is a debate we have had many times before. The Minister of Finance's answer is the same every time, the same lamentation: You took over the economy in 2015, there was no money, it was all really, really bad. Then I just found the figures for how much money was now spent in the 2016 Finance Act on tax cuts, and that was spent as well as 1 billion. kr. A large part of it was, of course, that the registration fee was reduced from 180 to 150 per cent, and it was, of course, sufficient to cover what was agreed on the re-priority contribution that year. Can we then make the assumption that savings in education have been exchanged for cheaper cars and other tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194517	Yes, or on nurses, police officers, on the stakes, compared to the fact that we have more help in our hospitals. Because there are a lot of things that were prioritized by the Finance Act for 2016. Where the previous government had a decrease in the number of police officers, we have now had an increase since the elections, because we wanted to increase admission because we wanted to promote the security that the Danes need. We needed to deal with an uncertainty about border controls, and we have therefore had temporary border controls for a number of years now and have also allocated funds in 2019 to be able to continue it throughout the period. That is why Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can point out that the money has gone to one point or the other, and I can just as rightly say that exactly that money has gone to nurses, to the elderly area, to police officers. But the point is that if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen does not read the old papers, but in recent newspapers from this week, she will see a statement showing that lowering the tax has actually contributed more money than it cost. In other words, we have gained a positive economic benefit by reducing the tax on cars. Let's see if it lasts in the long term. I can't guarantee that, but at least in the short term, says the press, we've got more money than we've spent on lowering the registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194637	The questioner...
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194639	But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that is not what I am talking about; I am talking about the government's own figures, i.e. the figures on the Ministry of Finance's website. What is the cost of the 2016 Finance Act in relation to taxes and charges? 1,175 million kr., well well well 1 billion. kr. A large part of this is because the registration fee would definitely be reduced from 180 to 150 per cent. in one chop. It is true that there are also all sorts of other things in the Finance Act. We could therefore find far more than a billion. kr. In the case of tax reliefs, however, savings had to be made not only for one year, but also for the following years, when tax reliefs were paid far more than they had to be paid in the area, because that was what we had to do. So don't talk about the policy of necessity. The government has swapped tax concessions for savings on education. There was nothing necessary about that prioritization either in 2016 or 2017 or 2018 or now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194743	No, I also believe that the policy of necessity was a concept created by a Finance Minister, which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen supported, and which I tried to overthrow and fortunately got knocked over in 2015. I am not talking about the policy of necessity. You could have picked a lot of things. We chose to extend the re-priority contribution because the Danish economy was in a critical situation and because we had clear priorities for what we wanted. We could see that in 2015 there was a budget that was not linked and that we had to correct the conditions, and that is why we did a number of things: we slowed down development aid, we increased the priority contribution; and that is the re-prioritisation contribution, we among other things. use to prioritize other areas in the education sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194824	The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219194826	I have a few brief reflections on the Minister's line. First of all, the Minister says that we must do the parliamentary work. I would just remind you that it has only happened twice in recent times that a budget bill has been delivered as late as it has been this year and last year, and that is then under the current Finance Minister. I therefore believe that the Minister for Finance should be pleased that the Folketing is less restrictive than the Minister for Education in relation to rules of absence and such things. There is also a criticism of this, and I think it was addressed to me that I allowed myself to mention health in my rapporteur's speech, because it obviously had nothing to do with the Finance Act. However, I have noticed that a reservation of 120.5 million has been made. kr. to the health reform in 2019, so I assume it is relevant and that is something the government is also planning to make some announcements about. But is it to be understood that all the challenges facing health care are expected to be solved with a framework that is within the current financial law? This is probably a completely relevant question, not least in view of the fact that the Finance Minister's own party colleagues are quite vocal about their concerns and concerns about health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195002	First of all, I should like to say that I have certainly not had any absenteeism. I have been sitting very, very often and very long behind the desk over in the Ministry of Finance, so the absence rate has been very, very low. In fact, I would have liked a slightly higher percentage of absence in November than was necessary. But when many meetings were necessary, it was also because these were actually three agreements in one: it was a new immigration policy, it was a whole pension reform, and then it was a financial law. One part of the Finance Act is also to save a reserve for the future health reform. That will not be the only thing we will need in the field of health in the future. In the coming years, we will need to create additional spaces for increasing health costs, but we will do so in the light of the fact that we have managed to reduce waiting times over the last few years, increase quality, improve the efficiency of the health care we have. What I see as the challenge, and what I think is a problem, is the very great diversity that exists across the regions; that is the lack of coherence between the municipal, the general practical and the regional level. And there we need to create a greater coherence in the way our health services work and talk together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195118	With an overcrowding in the medical departments, with over 100,000 Danes who do not have their own private practicing doctor, there are quite a lot of challenges. So if the Minister of Finance himself now indicates that funds should be allocated to health, can we not just get a bid for it? How much does the government envisage spending on health over the coming years, for example? Until 2025? The Social Democratic Party has submitted its bid, but it could actually be very interesting to hear whether the government has a bid.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195150	When you talk about what it takes, I would say that, among other things. We need more staff. There was a problem that the previous government slept per hour and did not increase the number of training places in health education, in nursing schools, enough. We have taken responsibility for that. But it is clear that it takes a few years to be trained as a nurse, and that is why it also takes a few years before the increases we have made come through. We have even proposed with the Finance Act an opportunity to get even more seats, if there is a desire for it from our regions, in nursing schools, so that we can get some more educational places and some more educated people to take care of it. We have also started to solve the medical shortage by taking in just two new educational establishments. Both the Southwest Jutland Hospital in Esbjerg and the University Hospital in Zealand, Køge will become educational establishments in the future. We have presented a plan which the medical associations themselves said is the most well-prepared plan ever seen to address the medical shortage, but it takes some time, unfortunately, to train doctors, because we must have a high level of professionalism and a high level of safety. Therefore, it is a plan that works on the long track by both increasing interest in becoming a doctor in general practice, but also getting more people to take the working hours that are out in general practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195302	The next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195305	Thank you. And thanks to the Minister for Finance for a good speech and good cooperation on the Finance Act. I would like to ask about a video on Facebook from the Socialist MEP Mrs Astrid Krag, about the economy of the elderly, about the elderly. Here it appears that pensioners expect to have 200 kroner. extra next year on the basis of the Finance Act. I even think Mrs. Astrid Krag has the money. That's 200 kroner it's about. And I would really like to hear from the Minister for Finance whether he can confirm or deny that this is what is at stake and, moreover, when, in 2019, pensioners can expect the improved economy, which among other things. The Danish People's Party and indeed the government also stressed the need to get out of the Finance Act, can be read in pensioners' accounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195408	I can deny that what we have agreed should be 200 kroner alone. There is much more to it, for example. depending on the situation you are in. If you have a little income next to it and it has been set off, then you will be set off much, much less. If you have a small pension fund, which is paid out not a large but a small pension fund, then you will in future be deducted much, much less in what you get in supplementary or in supplementary pension benefits. Therefore, there will be a large number of things that will have effect. And perhaps what will have the most effect in the long term is our agreement to abolish the rate regulation for pensioners, so that pensioners will experience a full adjustment of the benefit they receive, whether it is a basic benefit, a supplementary benefit or a supplementary pension. And that will actually mean a great deal over the coming years for pensioners who do not have much for themselves and who need us to create a better and stronger framework for their economic opportunities to live an active life, including as pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195511	I actually found it very liberating that it was just clarified, also here from the Parliament's platform, because there are many fun and beard things out on Facebook. So there are also stories that can be said to be fake news. I would like to hear the Minister for Finance just for the sake of order: when Mrs Astrid Krag and the Social Democrats claim that what a pensioner gets out of the financial agreement in 2019 is DKK 200, can you not say that it is fake news?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195545	Yes, one can safely do that because there will be so many other economies that will benefit from it. When you look at it forward and look forward to 2025, the significant amount that you get in lifting just the basic amount, because we are now abolishing the rate regulation. That's why this is a really big change. That is what I call a definite pension reform in relation to how the economy of pensioners will feel in the future. It is clear that if it is a question of whether you get a little extra every year, then it is less the first years and more the next years. But we should not go too far until this becomes something that can really be felt in an economy where you already have very little for yourself, which you do not have as a national pensionist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195626	The next question is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195629	When you have been in here over a sufficient number of economic fluctuations, you find that when there is such a recession, it is always the fault of the international economic cycle, and when there is a boom, it is clearly the fault of the policy adopted that things are going so well. The Minister for Finance's speech bore a little touch of that, so I couldn't help but smile about it. On the other hand, I stopped smiling, as the Minister for Finance has said that the ceiling on cash benefits has contributed to 30,000 fewer in the cash benefits system. Exactly, sir. Minister for Finance, how much has the ceiling on cash benefits, according to the government's own analyses, contributed to the 30,000 fewer people in the cash benefits system? So are we back to the fact that it is the agreed policy, or is it the business cycle? And right here we have got some impact measurements from the government on what it is, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have contributed in relation to the 30,000 that the Minister of Finance says has come out of the cash assistance system. So can the Minister not inform the people who are pawning about how much of the 30,000 we are talking about exactly in terms of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule? For the ceiling on cash benefits hit 28,000 people, so everything else equal, there will surely be some reasonable reason for these things to be in line with each other, so that it was not just such a kind of collective punishment of the recipients of cash benefits, but that there was in fact such a purpose with what then subsequently turned out to be pawing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195802	I'll see if I can answer everything. First of all, on the international economic situation: it is quite right that if the international economic situation is good, it will help Denmark. But we should not look around very much in Europe to find countries which, despite good international economic conditions, still have a miserable economy. Now Italy has come up with a new budget, which is a little less in deficit than the budget presented by the government first, but if we look at France, with the latest action that has been taken, I would estimate that they are crossing the 3% deficit threshold, which is well beyond what it really should be in an international upswing. So, of course, it is a combination of an international upswing and the pursued policy that makes the Danish economy strong. When it comes to the recipients of cash benefits, I cannot give a precise figure, because the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Finance are currently jointly examining exactly what the effect of the ceiling on cash benefits is. However, I have no doubt that the ceiling has contributed not to everyone, but to some of the 31,000 who have left the cash benefits system, that it is better to work and has therefore increased their motivation to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195912	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219195914	So let's take the next newest numbers. It is incredibly convenient not to answer it because there is an analysis. The Ministry of Employment is There may be another one on the way, but the Minister for Finance is very welcome to just lean on the last one that the government has brought in. How big is the figure? I mean, it's 28,000 people who have been hit by the cash aid ceiling. There are people who have lost 3,000 kroner. a month. I know the Prime Minister thinks it's just a pair and a half of shoes, but for most people it's 3,000 kroner. I understand, therefore, that it is convenient for the Minister of Finance not to quantify the amount of money per month. For the reality is that in the analysis carried out in the Ministry of Employment, 190 people out of the 28,000 have been affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. That is to say, when the Minister of Finance stands very well and says that it is the government's agreed policy and the cash aid ceiling that has contributed to the fact that 30.000 people are no longer in the cash aid system, then the reality is that it is 190 people. Then there's been such a little number war about whether it's 190 or 600. Let's just say it's 600, but then I guess it's still a little bit away from that 600 and then up to the 30,000. So either the finance minister has to be able to come up with a lot of other things the government should have done for this group, or at least just admit that the figure is actually not bigger than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200039	I know the report, and there's a reason why I don't use the numbers. There has been such a very justified criticism of that report, so the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Finance have come together to do a new analysis. It has not yet been completed, and I am very much looking forward to the analysis being completed, but also to discussing the results of the analysis with Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. In any case, I think it is right to set a ceiling on how much cash benefits can be obtained. What we experienced in the past was that the gain from getting into employment was far too small for too many Danes, and therefore the government has worked on two levels, on one level among others. • to set a ceiling on cash benefits and, on the other hand, to reduce the tax on the lowest incomes in the labour market, so that the benefits of getting to work are increased by reducing the tax burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200124	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200126	In 2015, the integration benefit was introduced as the lowest economic benefit in Denmark. And it is actually so low that the Institute for Human Rights has been out saying that there is reason to assume that the benefit does not comply with the provisions of the Basic Law that one must have a certain minimum subsistence level to live for in Denmark. Then it happens in connection with this Finance Act that the government and the Danish People's Party choose to reduce the amount further by up to DKK 2,000. for breadwinners. And then we are in a situation where, according to the Institute for Human Rights, some people go from living below the minimum level of existence to living even further below the minimum level of existence. So it is just that one has to ask: is this something that the Minister of Finance is proud of? Is the Minister of Finance proud that in a prosperous country like Denmark we are now seeing child poverty grow to some very large heights for some families on integration benefits? Is it worthy of a country like Denmark, a prosperous country, that in some families we should now experience a very, very large child poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200241	I think that the level of benefits that we have, including for refugees and families brought together in Denmark, is satisfactory and right. I think it is a fine performance that we deliver to people in need, that besides providing them with shelter, security and security, while their country is unfortunately in a state so that they cannot be there, we also provide them with a service that allows them to live a reasonable life. If you removed the self-examination and repatriation service, if you said that now it had to be removed and they had to have it according to the general rules of the cash assistance system, then you would find that a refugee family would get 10,000 kroner. more a month. I don't want that. I believe that the level we have set, including with the financial law agreement here, is right and sensible and that it is a level that we can easily be familiar with when we help the refugee families who have come to Denmark to give them shelter while waiting for them to return home to their own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200341	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200341-2	I think it is deeply problematic that with the integration service we have created a new economic subclass in Denmark and that that subclass should now become even bigger with the draft Finance Act that lies here. The Minister of Finance may disagree with that, but what about the children? How can we be familiar with these families? And with the amendment that comes with the Finance Act, it is specifically families with children that are being targeted. How the hell can we be familiar with a country that is so prosperous that child poverty must now be developed for a very specific group of people? In other words, we now have a situation in which parents in the integration service cannot afford to buy medicines or clothes or suffer social deprivation and cannot participate in social events such as this. birthdays. We are now in a situation where there will be families who simply cannot afford to get food on the table every day. Is it really worthy of Denmark anno 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200440	I have two things to say: there are a considerable number of speakers, but if you keep to the speaking time, it is possible that everyone can get to it. And then you don't have to use that expression, like mr. Rune Lund did. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200450	Thank you. I believe, as I said before, that our level of performance is appropriate and satisfactory. I believe that in terms of providing shelter to people who need a country where they can be, it is a right level that we are setting. In fact, when we look at the new self-support and return service, it is not my aim that they should be on that service either. My aim is to get them into employment. My goal is for them to be out and active. My aim is to get more refugees and family members who come to Denmark into the labour market and to make it easier with our policy for them to get out and earn their own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200537	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200538	Thank you. I just want to hear from the Minister for Finance whether the Finance Minister can confirm that the Finance Act 2016 budgeted for some 25 000 refugees to be entertained by the Finance Act, whereas next year, with the austerity that has been agreed between the government and the Danish People's Party, a figure called 4 000 refugees is down.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200603	I can fully confirm that. When we were going to make Finance Law for 2016, Europe had, so to speak, broken open, and through the policy that we have pursued in Denmark and the policy that has been pursued through cooperation in the European Union to stop them at the external borders, we now have so much control over the influx that it is not just the influx into Europe that is getting smaller, because the proportion that then chooses to move forward and to look for Denmark has become even lower, and that means that we have just come down to an influx, which is estimated to be only 4,000 next year. Of the 4,000, it is even my opinion that some of them will already be here as a family couple for refugees who may wish to have their own residence and therefore, while they are in Denmark, apply for refugee status. This means that in 2019 the number actually crossing the border with Denmark as asylum seeker will be even lower than the 4,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200702	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200707	Thank you for that investigation. Now much of today's debate has revolved around demographic features and developments in public spending, and what percentages should be on, so that perhaps the Minister of Finance could inform Parliament of what this had resulted in in relation to demographic trends and the need for greater public spending if we had still had to budget with this very high number of refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200737	This would have meant that the demographic move, which from now on towards 2025 on average is 0.65%, would have been significantly higher, perhaps as much as 0.8%, if it were the case that we had ended up at the high level assessed for 2016. Specifically, it has meant that where we set off 9.9 billion. kr. in 2016 for services related to asylum seekers, we are now down to spending 5.7 billion. kr. It is still a large amount, but it is, after all, less than 60%. of what was set aside for 2016 and thus we have been freed more than 4 billion. kr. that can be used for other areas of public service, in public welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200820	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200821	Thank you. After all, the Minister for Finance mentioned what we are doing in the climate area and a number of other areas, and I am a little curious about this: Does the Minister for Finance think that we are doing enough for the climate with the 2019 budget with the knowledge we have today and here I am thinking in particular of the UN climate panel's one-and-a-half report from October? Are we doing enough in 2019 from the Danish side in relation to the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200855	Now it should be remembered that the Financial Act for 2019 is also a collection of what has happened in advance and a budgeting of agreements that are ahead of the Finance Act. In this way, the Finance Act itself also contains the energy agreement we made this summer, an energy agreement in which we increased the level of ambition, where we increased the concrete efforts, while at the same time setting aside funds from 2026 to do more to achieve the objective of having 55%. renewable energy in our energy sector by 2030, of which 100 per cent. renewable energy in the electricity sector. This means that we have actually become one of the countries that has come a long time ago. And when we look at the Finance Act with the many things that are, the many elements in the natural and climate area around, we actually invest over 1 billion. kr. next year in lower CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200949	There's another trip. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219200954	So I really have to ask again: does the Minister of Finance think that we are doing enough with the knowledge we have with the one-and-a-half-degree report of October? Are we doing enough in 2019 for the climate? It's not so much what we do, but if what we do is enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201013	I really think we should do something more, but I think it might be Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist and me and all the 5.7 million other Danes who need to do something more. They get a helping hand in this, because with the Finance Act we create a climate label, so that when we as consumers are out to trade, we get the opportunity through our actions and through our purchases to move CO2 It gives us an opportunity to act and act, not only as a society in the Finance Act, but also as individuals, as a united Denmark. So if we as Danes want more effort, with our shopping cart we can make a difference in the future compared to CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201055	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201057	Thank you. The Minister for Finance obviously doesn't really want to answer Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's otherwise relevant questions. However, I would like to go a little more specific, because when the Minister for Finance presented the Finance Act, the Minister for Finance said, among other things, that 1 billion had been set aside. kr. over the next four years for green initiatives. When the Minister for Finance gave his speech a short time ago, he also spoke of a billion. kr. to green initiatives. However, we were also informed by the Ministry of Finance two days ago, when we were told that it has not been spent at all. A quarter of the money has not been spent, and my question to the Minister for Finance is this: could we simply not find something green in the midst of the climate, nature and environmental crisis? Could we not find a green initiative that was lacking?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201146	Yeah, you could do that. However, since we know that there are ongoing requests that we must meet and that there are also new ideas that come up, what we have chosen to allocate is 50 million. kr. We have the means to take initiatives, not only when we make financial legislation, but also in the years to come. In exactly the same way, if you can use the same image, we have together with the Danish People's Party set aside a pool of 25 million. kr. for health care. It is not the case that we could not immediately say: here are some areas we would like to give priority to. But in order to have some opportunities to accommodate the new ideas that may emerge during the year, we have set aside a pool. We have also done so in the field of nature, where a green pool has been set aside to direct the protection of nature in the state and the municipalities. It is about getting more coherent natural areas, areas with meadows and overland areas to be increased, and the same thing about the planting of land for untouched forests. Moreover, this is something that this government has increased its efforts quite significantly over the past. We are converting more agricultural land into ecology, and we are transforming more nature into untouched forest than was done in the previous government. I am actually very pleased about this, and with the funds that have been set aside, we also have the opportunity to take some initiatives on an ongoing basis during 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201301	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201303	We are not talking about money that has been reserved for a purpose that one has not found out what should be. We are talking about uncoupled reserves here, and there was my question just: when the Minister of Finance is very busy telling us that so much is being done in the green area, then it is strange that a quarter of the funds that the Minister of Finance prides himself on here have not had any drain. Is it not a little strange when, following on from my colleague's question, it is said that more should be done? Then the Minister of Finance skilfully passes the task on to consumers, but the government could do more. There's actually money to do more. Why has it not been desired to translate the billions that were otherwise so proud of when the financial agreement was presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201342	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201343	I do not want to correct the fact that 4 x 50 million is only one fifth of 1 billion, but it should not separate us. The fact is that we have reserved some means to ensure that we have the strength to take initiatives in the future. The uncapped funds will be translated in 2019 into a number of concrete initiatives. Those initiatives are assessed by the Minister for the Environment together with the conciliation parties to ensure that we can initiate the creation of more coherent forests, more untouched forests and more coherent green nature forward-looking. On the question of whether we on the Danish side are doing enough, I can say that I was at least delighted to read at Ritzau here on 5 December that a number of British researchers noted that Denmark and Britain are the countries taking the lead in the fight for the climate. In fact, I think we can be familiar with our climate action. When people from outside assess Denmark against other countries, we are actually at the forefront.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201440	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201442	The Minister for Health talks about governments being able to sleep an hour, and we really have a government sleeping an hour when it comes to health. The government has been saying for two years that there should now be a plan for the close links in health care. We have waited, waited and waited, and this despite the fact that this plan had to solve one of the absolutely greatest problems we have in health care, and that is the lack of practitioners, both in the country and in the city. 70% Of all the practitioners have closed the entry of new patients, and while Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been Prime Minister from 2015 to 2018, there has almost been a triple of citizens who cannot have their own practicing doctor. It is over 110,000 citizens who are in this situation and are referred to a tender clinic or a regional clinic. It is a really violent increase, it is a really violent health problem that the government does not address or find solutions to. Practising Doctors' Organization says that the curve goes so that they can predict that within five years there will be 300,000 citizens standing without a practicing doctor. My question to the Minister for Finance is: why is this problem • perhaps the biggest health problem we have in Denmark • not addressed and raised in the Finance Act with concrete initiatives and initiatives that could work quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201620	I do not know whether it is the questioner who has slept per hour, if the questioner is not aware that the government made a presentation, a doctor close to you, who has been discussed, praised and acknowledged by a great many from the industry, in fact, as I also mentioned earlier, that the doctor's organization itself said that it is the most thoroughly worked out proposal that has come in terms of solving the medical shortage. We have provided funding for the support of medical houses, the establishment and construction of medical houses around the country. In my own home municipality there has been a new medical center in Haderup, just supported by the funds awarded by the Minister for Health. That is why initiatives have been taken. The most effective thing we have done is to increase the number of places where you are trained as a doctor. With a new medical education in Aalborg, with the possibility of taking part in the medical education in Esbjerg and in Køge and a collaboration that we hope to get up and running, between Køge and the other hospitals in the Region of Zealand, we get more doctors who come out into the country and work and hopefully will also be interested in staying in the country and not looking for the major cities and university hospitals to create the basis for more doctors. But it takes some time. And I just have to admit, there weren't enough doctors trained in the time of the SR government. That is why we have a problem with getting doctors to want to get out and be in general practice. It is a wish that we have taken seriously and a wish that we have acted upon.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201743	[Sound emission]... the government now distributes to health houses, who had dropped them off on the Finance Act? The Red Government did. Who turned up the medical education in Aalborg? The Red Government did. And have more nurses been hired in the hospitals while Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has been prime minister? No, there are 133 fewer, but 54,000 more patients. The government sleeps per hour, and what I asked the Minister for Finance was short-term solutions, so that in five years' time we do not have 300,000 Danes who are referred to a regional clinic or a tender clinic. What solutions do the Minister of Finance and the government have for this? None. On the other hand, constructive proposals from the Social Democratic Party are criticised. The government sleeps an hour. The problem may be the biggest problem we have in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201834	Well, now I'm not the one who criticises the social democracy's health proposal. It was kind of sir. Bent Hansen, who said that the health proposals that came about to be out and get the small hospitals back and have the operations moved out where you have no expertise and knowledge of it, are not the right way to go. The doctor's organization criticised the social democracy's health proposal. I am happy to listen if there are constructive proposals to improve it. The problem is that they have not been constructive, that they have not been solutions, that they have not been improvements. That's why the government has acted and acted with the action...A doctor close to you, who is our bid on how to solve the medical shortage for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201913	Then it is Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201916	I understand that the Minister for Finance is very concerned about separating the concepts of refugees and immigrants. And that raises just one question with me: the 36 billion. I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219201936	The agreement to calculate the cost of integration has chosen to pursue ethnicity, i.e. whether you are a Western immigrant or a non-Western immigrant, but not according to what background you have come up with. That is why I cannot say today how one or the other category has fallen out. One of the challenges facing us is that many of those who came as refugees have ended up here as immigrants. So, nine out of ten refugees who have come here over the last 20 years are still here, despite the fact that the idea of the concept of refugees, as has just been said, is that you return to your own country. But in relation to the division of the 36 billion. kr. Unfortunately, we cannot distinguish between what refugees are and what immigrants are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202027	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202034	Thank you. I would actually like to continue where the previous questioner left off, because it is true that what separates refugees from migrants is that refugees have protection because they are entitled to it because they are persecuted in their country of origin. And to the extent that they no longer have the right to protection, one must understand that what separates them from migrants is that they should then return home again. The fact is that many of the conflicts we see in the world last 10, 15, 20 years before they are concluded, and this means that there are families who have been refugees who may have been in Denmark, had children who have grown up, have become part of society in, for example, Denmark. 15 years. So these are some of the people who are now, if I may say so, from the outset, to say that they will never belong here. So we get a growing group of people living in our country, going to our schools, being our colleagues at work or playing down at the football club, but not being allowed to take root here. It's part of this paradigm shift. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is healthy for the families who will live in that insecurity? And does the Minister of Finance think that it is healthy for a society to have people who live in so much uncertainty for so long and who are not allowed to take root and become normal Danes like all of us who go to work, talk to the neighbor and go down to the football club? Is this paradigm change really sensible from the point of view of both the individual and society?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202221	Thank you. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202223	I think that makes sense. I think it makes sense for us to make it clear that refugees are here on a temporary basis. If you, as a refugee, live up to the criteria that are normal for you to come to Denmark as a labour force, then you have to try to change the basis of residence on which you are here. It will also be the case that, otherwise, if you comply with the rules, that is to say the requirements we have made along the way, then it will also be possible at some point as a refugee to apply for permanent residence permits in Denmark. But I cannot understand why the starting point should be discussed. The starting point is that if you come to Denmark as a refugee, it is because you cannot be in your country because of unrest, civil war, disasters or anything else and have a need for protection, just like Mr. Pelle Dragsted said a protection requirement, which is temporary. When that need for protection is no longer there, you have to go back. If we do not stick to the principle that the starting point is that refugees should go home to their own country, then we will abolish the concept of refugees, because then you only have migrants, then you only have migration and I do not want that. In fact, I want to maintain that there is one door open for those who come here, which we have invited ourselves on certain criteria as a labour force or as a student and keep another door open for those who come here because they have a need for protection. There, as a rich and free and safe country, we should also take our share of responsibility for helping them rather close to the area, but otherwise, if they come here, then in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202352	Thank you. The last question we get to the Minister for Finance in this round is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202356	Thank you. Then I'm actually gonna change the subject. Because I heard earlier that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur was very offended by the 2012 tax agreement, where money was taken out of his pocket, among other things. early retirement and the unemployed to use them to lower the top tax. But can the Minister of Finance not just confirm that with the agreement that has just been concluded between the government and the Danish People's Party, the Danish People's Party undertakes to continue the less regulation of the income of early retirement and the unemployed, which was the result of the 2012 agreement; that is to say, that the agreement that the Danish People's Party is supposed to be very outraged about the content of that too, I myself think it was a really, really bad agreement. There is the Danish People's Party cargo and burst behind the annual minor regulations on the income of the unemployed, which follow from the 2012 agreement just so that we can get it straight.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202505	This is not a new commitment. When, in 2015, after the parliamentary elections, a new wage-pool agreement was made, it was necessary to be included in the wage-pool agreement to accept and recognise that there was a majority that had made a lower regulation. The Danish People's Party was not responsible for the regulation, but recognised in the Rate Pool Agreement in autumn 2016 that it was the conditions for joining. So it was an acceptance which, by the way, has been from all the parties that have participated in the pool. From 2015 onwards, it has been accepted that such were the conditions, that is, that it was the condition for joining. That is why it is nothing new that has been confirmed. This was a condition for joining the pool in 2015, and it has been continued in the agreement that I hope that a broad circle of parliamentary parties, namely the previously set-rate pool parties, will also join in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202557	One hour was allocated to questions to the Minister for Finance. It has now been used, and so we thank the Minister for Finance at this stage. Sir. Jacob Jensen has informed me that he wishes to speak for the second round. That's what Mr. Jacob Jensen speaking now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219202614	Thank you. It's in a red block. If you cannot take anything else from today's debate on next year's Finance Act, that must be the conclusion. The Red Block traditionally consists of five parties, Social Democracy, SF, Enhedslisten, Radical and Alternative. Three of the parties in the red bloc are putting up with their own prime minister candidates, because one cannot be brought together. As you know, the Enhedslisten presents Mrs Pernille Skipper. But isn't Enhedslisten going to end up supporting a S-government anyway? However, you will demand, as Mr. Rune Lund mentioned significant concessions in relation to both economic policy and foreign policy. So much for sir. Henrik Sass Larsen's desire to pursue a bourgeois economic policy, and so much for Mrs Mette Frederiksen's desire to pursue a strict foreign policy with the bourgeois. The alternative is with Mr. Uffe Elbæk as Prime Minister's candidate, and it has to be said here that this is all on one board. For as rapporteur for the budget, Mr. Christian Poll confirmed again today, it will not be possible at any time to put votes to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister. You want to stand free and negotiate on a case-by-case basis and do not hold hands under any government. Yes, it could be completely Swedish conditions. The Radicals point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, but only as negotiating leader. And Mr. Andreas Steenberg also confirms today that this does not necessarily mean that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is pointed out as Prime Minister, for as Mr. Andreas Steenberg said very precisely that the Radicals must have strong concessions on foreign policy if that is to happen. Otherwise, Mrs Mette Frederiksen can look a long way for the mandates of the Radicals. Sir. Andreas Steenberg did not say what concessions it was about, as it depends on a debate. That is quite fair, but concessions in the field of foreigners were a must for the Radicals, for as Mr. Andreas Steenberg said: otherwise we will not make Mrs Mette Frederiksen Prime Minister. That may, of course, be the reason why we have heard from the Socialists today in the course of the negotiations that they are beginning to back their rhetorically tight immigration policy. The Socialists will vote yellow, in other words neither for nor against, on the proposal made by Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten to scrap the integration benefit and instead increase the grant to refugees. Tomorrow, the Socialists will also vote yellow to the constitutional ceremony in which new citizens are to take part, in other words, a further strain on foreigners, to which the Social Democrats will not relate. Social democracy also reports today that it is not going to vote for the Lindholm exit centre, which is going to house exiles of criminal foreigners and foreigners on tolerated residences. As you know, this came out in the debate, where we are told today that we are going to vote yellow. It is, of course, in spite of the fact that Mr S's rapporteur on foreigners, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, earlier said that the proposal was spot on. Now you're backing up on that tighter course. Social democracy says one thing in words, but does something else in action in the votes here in Things when things become concrete and difficult. So even before entering the black tower this time, the Radicals seem to have succeeded in obtaining concessions from the Socialists, which are now moving towards a sluggish immigration policy. Well done by the Radicals. Congratulations. As far as the SF is concerned, one still has a hot dream of repeating the success of the past and again forming part of a government. By the way, it was a government that lowered corporate tax, lowered top tax and significantly increased inequality among the Danes. The SF now demands from the Social Democrats something as fundamental as a coherent economic plan that SF cannot see that S has delivered. That in itself is thought - provoking. Moreover, the SF also says in today's Berlingske that if Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not remove the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, she can, according to the SF's political rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge, ripping and jumping. So not one party in the red bloc says that they will unequivocally support Mrs Mette Frederiksen. On the contrary, there are parties that say they will not. Faced with this, there is a blue camp, which has now again delivered a comprehensive financial agreement on top of a series of other agreements throughout the year. It is a blue camp which, of course, is four different parties and therefore does not agree on everything. But we work well together with respect for each other's views, and we agree that after the next elections Denmark must continue to have a V-led government with Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen in the lead and with a policy where we prioritise core welfare and at the same time create ever better conditions in order to establish jobs and thus earnings for the common welfare in Denmark. I think the debate today has given many good answers, both to the political content and, in particular, to the form of the political blocs. I am therefore very much looking forward to the new year of major agreements, among others. health and infrastructure and much more. Not least, I also look forward to a parliamentary election. I'm so ready. The government is so ready. Left is so ready. Merry Christmas and, not least, Happy New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203124	I was just saying that it is allowed to clap, but it is not. I would like to thank Mr. Jacob Jensen, but stay a minute. I would just like to clarify the rules for the second round: it can be inspiring for other rapporteurs when someone takes the floor, and so I will just repeat the rules. In the second round you can talk 5 minutes. There are only three who can ask questions, and I am trying to sort that out so that there are as many parties as possible who have a chance. Privatist posts in 5 minutes can also be held, with short remarks by up to three members. And then, of course, the Minister for Finance will have another chance with 15 minutes and debate for up to 30 minutes. Now you know the terms. After that, I would like to say that there is a brief remark from Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203213	I thought it was fantastic to experience this talk about the cohesion over in the blue block. May I ask honourable Members here just to turn the calendar back one year, when the whole of Denmark witnessed perhaps the biggest political circus we have seen since the Progress Party first came to parliament. I mean, it's pathetic, and I actually think there's a lot of Danes sitting at home when they're following a debate like this today, and they're thinking, "What kindergarten is this?" For yes, there are political disagreements with the red bloc, in our block, but there is god help me in the blue block as well. And fortunately for that, because that is what politics is all about. It's about the breaking of opinions. And frankly: Over in the blue block you are on your way to having a new, rather extreme party elected into the Folketing, namely New Citizens, who have made three completely unfulfilled demands to make Lars Løkke Rasmussen prime minister at all. So yes, it can be difficult government negotiations, no matter which government is elected, no matter who the Danes give the majority. But I am sure that we will all fight hard here, regardless of which party we come from, but also pragmatically, to ensure that the policy we have chosen will have as much influence as possible. That's what politics is about. Shouldn't we try to put aside all that cuckoo and circus and then fight each one for what we believe in, and then find the solutions together, no matter who the Danes give the reins?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203341	I didn't quite hear the question, except that that's exactly what we're doing, sir. Pelle Dragsted. That's exactly what we're doing. And that is the proof today that we have once again delivered a comprehensive financial law with the priorities that each of us, as a party, is fighting for among the four parties that have concluded the Financial Law Agreement. That is what the whole point of it is, I think, very, very fine, but also long-standing debate on the financial law, where we have just looked at what it is that Denmark should have, what priorities it is, and what kind of investment we can see in the future. No, we do not agree on everything in the government and with the Danish People's Party, but we do agree that we see what it is for a prime minister and also a direction for the country we would like to see together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203429	But then let's stick to it. In fact, I think there are many of those who are following in this debate at home who think it was nice that it was the political issues we were discussing, rather than all the pointy fingers at each other as there has been today. I myself almost sometimes feel bad about the way this debate is going on in here. And it is not just on the one hand; there is too much teasing and jokes and circuses, instead of discussing what is at stake: politics. Because there is enough that divides us in the political field, so let us concentrate on that rather than the fact that there is a complete circus over there or that there is total chaos over there. The opinions are broken on both sides, and fortunately for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203509	Well, I don't know who's doing the circus. I am merely trying to draw a picture of what has happened in the course of the day, what political markings have come and what conclusions can be drawn from it. That, in fact, is just what I am pointing to. It is a political priority when you choose to vote yellow to something that has been said was spot on. It's a political mark that wants something. This has nothing to do with teasing. It is a sign on the part of the Social Democratic Party that now you start to back on what else you were so determined to be tight on. I don't understand. Pelle Dragsted feels called to call the circus and the joke. That is a mark which I think is worth noting, and that is why I only note that we can make a financial agreement while others say one, but do exactly the opposite when they come down to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203554	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203556	There is, in particular, a point that has filled relatively much during the day, and it is a point where you can talk about chaos. I fully admit it, but it is not a chaos that you have necessarily had to look out widely in the blocks for. You could've looked all the way inside the Left. And that is why I must just remind you of the good old advice that geological objects should not be used as projectiles when you live in transparent domains. I mean, when sir... Jacob Jensen's own party is totally divided when it comes to what the health care of the future should look like, so it's completely crazy that you don't want to take the debate in the Chamber and, incidentally, stand up with such a slightly gullible feature as this. Recognizes Mr. Jacob Jensen, that there are clear, clear and critical voices in the Left, among the mayors and in the Left, who share the concern that I have expressed on behalf of the Social Democrats in today's debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203714	I think it's impressive that sir. Benny Engelbrecht knows exactly what is in a proposal that the government has announced will come first in the new year. I think that's impressive. I've heard something about it, but I don't know the details. I recognise that there is a discussion in the Left as well as in the Social Democracy and everywhere else about something as important as our health care. And this morning, when we talked about exactly the same thing, I tried to express where I stand and where the Left stands, namely in the position called the patient before the system. And then the structural discussion must support that view. And that's kind of the same answer I'm giving today. There are, of course, views that go in all directions, but at all levels in the Left we share exactly the same view: that the patient comes before the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203803	Well, that's actually quite right, as sir. Jacob Jensen says that the views are in all directions in the Left. I mean, it's the Left that's gotta be messing with it. But now this chaos theme is something that Mr. Jacob Jensen himself is leaving. Unlike the Left, the Social Democratic Party has presented a fully funded proposal for a health reform. Now I can see that it does, sir. Jacob Jensen didn't read either. We are so used to this now, but I just note that you know where you have the Social Democracy when it comes to health care. The question is, where is the government? I think we should see if we can get an answer to that question at some point. I'm not counting on Mr. Knox. Jacob Jensen has an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203842	I don't have an answer to what the government's gonna be doing after New Year's. I admit, I have no answer to that. But I have an answer to what it is that drives us in relation to health care. It drives us to get more people to survive cancer treatment, which has succeeded. It drives us to be able to lift the health service by several billions again on the Finance Act next year. It drives us to keep waiting further and further down, and it drives us to be able to employ more staff and, above all, to have their professional skills put into play as much as possible. It also drives us to have Europe's third best health care. It must be even better, and it must not least drive us to put man ahead of the system. The patient should not experience being thrown between the systems, but should have a consistent course in his treatment offer. And that is what drives us in the move that the government will make, which will not be presented until the next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203936	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219203937	What the rapporteur of the Left has apparently got out of the last 111⁄2 hours of debate is that the Radical Left is working for radical politics. When it can be so surprising for the Left, it must be because the Left has stopped working for the policies of the Left and has left power to the Danish People's Party. That's why I want to ask: When does the Left stop just following the Danish People's Party and fight for its own values?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219204010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219204011	I hope I did not make it news that the Radicals are fighting for radical politics. On the contrary, I actually praised the Radicals for once again showing that, even before you go into the black tower, if you get into any tower at all, just as you did last time, the Social Democrats are dragging around by the nose. There it was said that what they said before the elections, they could forget if they had radical support. That's what I heard, sir. Andreas Steenberg said again today: if we are to have radical support for a Social Democratic Prime Minister, we need significant concessions on immigration policy. In other words, it was meant as a praise to the Radicals and also a congratulations on the fact that we can now already see that it seems to have succeeded. Social democracy is in the process of backing up from what else they have swung up to be, namely to be a tighter party in the field of foreigners. It is now beginning to be a relaxing party, starting with a yellow vote until more foreigners' proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219204101	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219204102	But I am surprised that the Left may be so surprised that we are fighting for our own policy, and so I would like to ask again: when will the Left get into the fight and stop just being dragged around by the Danish People's Party and start standing up for the Left's own values?
ParlaMint-DK_20181219204126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219204127	I would just like to repeat that I am not surprised that Radicals are again fighting for radical politics today. On the contrary, I have commended you for doing so, also that you seem to succeed in doing so. But the Left works for the policy of the Left, and you can see that if you take note of the Finance Act. Take the financial bill that came from the government at the end of August, put it next to the financial bill that has come out. It is a joint agreement with the Danish People's Party. There are, of course, concessions to the Danish People's Party, which helps carry this through, but there are great stretches that lie from the initiative that the government made. This is among other things. Thanks to the Left, but also thanks to the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, which is part of the entire Triple Government, but supported by the Danish People's Party. That's how we work in the blue block. We fight for each of our cases, but when we have a common agreement, we are also at the goal of the whole agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219204215	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. There are no more short remarks or at least there is no room for more. Then I would like to know whether there are any other rapporteurs who feel drawn to participate in the second round. There isn't. Are there any ministers, for example? a finance minister or something who feels drawn to conclude the debate? Since that is not the case, the debate has ended and we must now proceed to the vote. But before we start the vote, we will take a short break, so we are sure that everyone is in place when we start. The sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 20.50.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219205109	The sitting is resumed and we shall begin voting time. To section 6. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-11 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 7. Ministry of Finance. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12-16, 568 and 17-32 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 8. Ministry of Industry. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 33 to 47 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 9. Department of Taxation. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 48-58 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 10. Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 59-61 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 543 of the SF. The vote is over. In favour 18 (EL, RV and SF), against 59 (DF, V, LA, ALT and KF), abstentions 29 (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 62-67 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. For section 11. Ministry of Justice. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 68-71 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 72 by the Minister for Finance. The vote will end. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 73-84 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 12. Department of Defense. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 85-94 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 14. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 95 and 96 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 97 by the Minister for Finance. It's good if everyone's paying attention. The vote is over. in favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 569 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 99 and 100 of the Finance Minister? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 101 of the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 102-108 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 109 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 570 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 571 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. in favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 112 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. For section 15. Ministry of Children and Social Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 113-119 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 544 by RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 120-162 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 16. Ministry of Health and the Elderly. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 163-204 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 17. Ministry of Employment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 205 and 206 of the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 207 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 208-216, 572, 218, 573, 220-235, 574, 575 and 238-257 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 258 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour, 96 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV and KF) voted against 4 (ALT), abstained 4 (SF). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 259-268 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 19. Ministry of Education and Research. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 269-302, 576, 577 and 305-312 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 20. Ministry of Education. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 313-317 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 545 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour 34 (S and 1 (DF) (by mistake)) voted against 69 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 318-321, 578 and 323-341 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 579 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 343-367 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 546 by EL, RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 22 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 368-372 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 21. Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 373 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 374 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 0, abstention 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 375-399 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 400 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 401-423 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 24. Ministry of Environment and Food. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 424-440 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 28. Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 441-454 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 547 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 580-582, 455, 583 and 457-459 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 29. The Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 460, 584, 462, 585, 463-465, 586, 587, 466, 467, 588 and 469-481 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 548 by RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 482-486 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 35. General reserves. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 589 and 488 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 549 by Mr RV and Mr SF rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 489 and 490 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 550 of S rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 491 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 551 by Mr RV and Mr SF rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 590 and 493 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 552 by EL, RV and SF as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 494 and 495 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 496 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 29 (S). The proposal is adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 553 of the S as rejected. It has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 554 by EL, RV and SF as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 591, 498-500, 592 and 501 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. There's a little bit of crap about the technique. We'll just wait a minute. I mean, I'm perfectly safe... [Sound Falls]... and so can anyone else. There's usually no problem with Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. I think we can move on. Is the system working, sir? Alex Ahrendtsen? We'll see about that). Yeah. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 555 by RV and SF as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 502 and 503 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 504 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 4 (SF). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 505 and 506 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 507 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. in writing. - 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 14 (EL and ALT), abstained from voting on 9 (RV and SF). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 508 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 14 (EL and ALT) abstentions 9 (RV and SF). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 509 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 510-513 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 514 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. The vote shall be taken at the request of the European Parliament or of the Council. 515 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 516-528 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 529 of the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 556 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 557 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 558 by Mr SF. The vote is over. In favour 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 34 (S and RV). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 559 by EL, RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour, 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 560 by EL, RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour, 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 561 by EL, RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 562 by EL, RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 563 by EL, RV and SF. The vote is over. 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF, abstained 28 (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 564 by RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 54 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. For paragraph 37. Interest. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 593-601, 530 and 602-616 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 38. Taxes and charges. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 617 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour, 93 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 13 (EL and SF). The proposal is adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 565 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 566 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour 47 (S, EL, ALT and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 5 (RV). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 618-621 and 534 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 622 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 58 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 47 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 623 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 624 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 625, 537 and 626 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 627 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of voting 59 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 47 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 628 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 629 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. in writing. - 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 14 (EL and ALT), abstained from voting on 9 (RV and SF). The proposal is adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 567 of the SF as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 630-632 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 633 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of voting 59 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 47 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 634-636 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 40. Reloans etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 637-642 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 41. Stock movements, etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 643-648 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 42. Net government debt write-offs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 649-651 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. That concludes the vote on the amendments. I propose that the examination of the draft budget be stopped and that the draft law be referred back to the Committee on Finance. Are there any objections to this proposal? It's agreed. The proceedings shall then be suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20181219212341	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. And we hope that the voting system here will work tomorrow. I'd love to. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 20 December 2018, at 12.00 pm. 9. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
