ParlaMint-DK_20180504100014	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 239 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on Active Social Policy, the Act on Disbursement Denmark and the Aliens Act. Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Henrik Dam Kristensen (S), Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) and Leif Mikkelsen (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 143 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the parliamentary resolution on the election and operation of the auditors of the State). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100049	I don't see sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. It is Mrs Karina Adsbøl instead, and we would like to hear about that up here, so we are aware of it. Yeah, we're moving on. The debate is open. It's the Minister of Education and Research. And welcome to say on behalf of the Danish Parliament. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100142	Thank you for the floor. So it is a great honour to stand here. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important issue. In the draft parliamentary resolution, the government is not required by the end of 2018 to submit the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that young people over 18 who are placed outside the home are given the opportunity to receive SU instead of educational assistance. I assume that the proposers are referring to young people who are in detention at a place of placement and in training, and not to the group of unemployed young people who are receiving training aid before they start training. There are some misunderstandings as to who can receive training aid in the cash assistance system. Contrary to what you might think, education aid is not given as a starting point to young people who are undergoing training. On the other hand, training grants are given to unemployed young people under the age of 30 who do not have vocational training and who have applied for assistance in the cash assistance system. With the cash benefits reform, cash benefits were paid per year. 1 January 2014 abolished for all young people under the age of 30 without vocational training and replaced by educational assistance. The background was that the cash benefits rates then applied were, as a rule, higher than the SU rates, which gave the young worker an inappropriate financial incentive to stay in the cash assistance system rather than start training. The basic grant for training aid is set at the level of the SU rate, so that young people get the same level of benefit as when they start an education. Having said that, I share the intention behind the proposal. Nor do I think it would be appropriate for young people over 18 years of age who, in detention at a place of placement, are unable to obtain SU if they start training. Protection under the Services Act is provided to young people aged between 18 and 23 who need support. Protection should contribute to a good transition to an independent life and should focus on supporting the young person's education or employment. The aid can, for example: be able to keep a permanent contact person after he or she reaches the age of 18. Here, the young person will be able to apply for SU as any other person who is in education. In the case of young people who were placed outside the home at a location before the age of 18, the post-marital protection may also include the possibility for young people to stay at a place of placement after they have reached the age of 18. If these young people have an income, the municipality must decide whether to pay for their detention and how much they have to pay. If a young person aged between 18 and 23 years in detention care at a place of placement does not have an income, the municipality must set and pay an amount for personal needs until the young person has a different income, e.g.: pay from a job, pension, cash benefits or other income. The reason why young people are not ready for the SU is that it is a condition for obtaining the SU that no other financial support is available at the same time to cover the cost of living. So far, it has been the practice to assume that young people who are in detention, for example. are considered to receive other public aid which excludes the SU. This assumption is based on the principle that you should not have public benefits from several funds at the same time to cover the same costs as, for example, the United Kingdom. board and lodging. I think most people can agree that this principle is fair enough. At the same time, however, it is also important that rules across the areas also help to make young people more self-employed and do not maintain them in the social system. Therefore, the rules should not prevent young people from wanting to take an education and perhaps also a leisure job. So I share the intention that the group of young people in detention should have flexibility on an equal footing with the young people at the SU, but this is a complicated issue. As the authors of the proposals are probably aware, this is not a new issue, and therefore the Ankestyrelsen for Børne- og Socialforskningsministeriet is also in the process of a study to clarify what young people in the post-protection area have as a revenue base and the local authorities' own-payment practices. When the study is ready, I will, in cooperation with the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, consider the possibility that young people in detention may receive SU. My aim is to create the framework needed to ensure that as many young people as possible have the courage to embark on training and, above all, to create the safety net that will enable them to carry out training. It is less important to me whether this is done within the framework of the SU system or under another framework. In this light, it is crucial that we get the problem clarified thoroughly before we change the basis for a group that has a lot to deal with in many contexts. The Government therefore proposes that the examination of the motion for a resolution be suspended and that the possibilities for addressing the current challenges for young people in post-protection during training be examined as a follow-up to the study initiated by the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, and that the possibility of giving young people in post-protection SU is then discussed in the SU board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100702	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. First of all, it is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100707	Thank you for that, and thank you for the Minister's speech, and welcome to the Folketing. This is a complex issue, says the Minister, and this is not a new issue. That is why it is also a question of resolving it, and we should have liked to have done so as soon as possible. So I would like to ask what the Minister is saying about the suspension of the motion for a resolution. Is it my understanding, then, that the Minister would like to contribute to a draft report in which we are all under an obligation to resolve this problem once the study to which the Minister refers has been completed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100745	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100747	Thank you for the question. As soon as the study of what the group of young people in detention has on income and self-payment is complete, to make it fully clear, I will clearly consider the possibility that they can get the SU, and then we can get to work. But I think we should wait until that study is available to be quite concrete. And it has been slightly delayed, but the plan is that it will be ready in autumn 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100812	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100813	That will then be my next question. When's this investigation gonna be done? But at least we in the Danish People's Party want to go for a report in which we at least require each other to act in this area. I have also asked the former minister whether the Minister considered it reasonable that young people aged over 18 should not be able to receive SU if they wish to start training under normal conditions. And there the former minister replied: No, that does not sound reasonable at first sight. So that's why it's gonna take us to act on this and solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100846	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100848	I fully agree that we need to act on this, and we will do so when we can see the results of the study that has been launched and that has been completed in the autumn of this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100859	Thank you, and then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100902	Also welcome to the new minister. I just want to say that I think it is a very important proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward here. It is not just for the economy of young people, but simply for the feeling that when you are a student, you have the opportunity to get the same benefit as all your other comrades. This is absolutely crucial for this group of young people. So I am glad that the Minister is positive about the proposal, but I also think that, if there is this goodwill, I would like to ask: would it not make sense that we simply decide here and now that we can vote for this proposal or make a joint report, so that we have a very clear indication that we will do something? And the fact that the final legislation is then put in place only when the study is there is reasonable enough. But shouldn't we really confirm that something has to happen now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504100955	I think I fully agree that something needs to be done. I just want to wait until this basis is fully enlightened. Because it may be that the study shows that these young people are actually better off in the system they are in now. For there are also some vulnerable young people who may have some very specific, special needs that are not possible to meet for them in the SU system. So to stand here and say that we must certainly take them into the SU system, I do not think I have the right basis for that. That is why I would like to wait for this study to be completed and then move on from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101032	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101034	Thank you. However, I would like to make a strong appeal from this point of view to put this right as soon as possible. For it is actually a group of young people who have waited a lot of years already to get the SU and for whom it means a lot to be able to get the same benefit as all other young people who are students. So I hope we can get that started now so that it can be ready and perhaps already come into force after New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101101	Thank you, and here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101105	As I said in my speech, I fully agree with the intention of the proposal and I would also like it to go as quickly as possible. And we're gonna push, too, but we're just waiting for this investigation to be completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101116	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101119	A great welcome to the Minister for the Parliament's platform. I'd like to hear about something from the minister. This isn't really about whether or not we're going to make a whole new arrangement that, in general, goes in and exceeds the old one. It is at the heart of the matter that we give young people the choice between either the benefit they receive today or the SU. And these are parallel systems, and yet they are not, because there are also some things you can do in the SU system that you cannot do if you get another public support. So is the Minister aware that this is all about giving an opportunity, but not that in this way we are fundamentally changing the fact that we can also get the public service that we are receiving today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101210	Thank you. And here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101211	Yes, I am aware of that, but I maintain that I would still like to wait for this study to be completed so that we clearly understand what it is they have, because we do not have an overview of what it is they have. We do not know enough about how the individual municipalities are treating this area right now, and so we would like the Ankestyrelsen under the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs to complete their investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101233	Thank you. Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101235	Thank you for your answer. In the Committee on Education and Research we therefore have parties who sit here in Parliament an opportunity to write what is called a report on the basis of this motion for a resolution. And that means that if we agree on a report, then the motion for a resolution does not go to the second reading and therefore does not go directly to a vote. And I hope that in this report we will be able to gather together to see that action is being taken in this area and that we await the study to which the Minister refers. Will the Minister not be prepared, with the support of the government, to be included in such a report?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101313	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101314	My recommendation is still that we suspend the examination of this proposal, and then we await the study. But I am also convinced that I agree with the intention of the proposal and that we must do something about it. But let us wait for that study to be completed and then deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101333	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions or comments. Then we can start on the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101348	With the proposal today, the Danish People's Party proposes that young people over 18 years of age placed outside the home will have the opportunity to receive SU instead of educational assistance. The situation is today, as the Minister also mentioned, that young people over 18 who are placed outside the home are perceived as being under other public support. At the same time, there is a principle in the SU rules that the SU can only be granted if other public aid is not received to cover the cost of living. This means that the young person cannot receive SU and must then receive training aid which offers other opportunities in relation to, among other things: other income, borrowing opportunities and savings. So we have a situation in this case where there is clearly discrimination. Social democracy is very well aware of this problem and has been so, if I may say so, for almost several years, and we have therefore also asked questions about this particular problem to the former Minister for Education and Research. For it goes without saying that a young person placed outside the home, for example, will have great pleasure in getting out and feeling that life is completely on the same terms as other young people who are not in this situation. And just great pleasure in also having a job next door would be really, really good again just like all other young people. The problem has a major impact on those involved, and there is no doubt about this. It means very, very much to young people that they feel that they are being recognised under exactly the same conditions. The former minister gave his reply to my colleague, Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye stated in March that it was not reasonable for us to have this situation, and he therefore wanted to discuss the matter with the Minister for Children and Social Affairs during 2018 when the outcome of the ongoing investigation of the area mentioned above is available. That is why we also have a clear expectation that the government will follow up the problems, and that will be followed very, very closely by the Social Democrats. I would like to express my appreciation of the Minister's positive attitude to the substance of this issue, which is of great concern to the Social Democrats, and I also note that the Minister is very positive in finding a pragmatic and also rapid solution to this outstanding situation, which is clearly discriminatory. Against this background, I would also like to make it clear that the purpose of the proposal is very, very reasonable, because it must be the case that, when you are over 18 years old and you are outside the home, your rights correspond to those of other young people. It is also important for me to say that any changes are made on the basis of a very thorough and thorough documentation, and the Social Democrats therefore want to wait first and foremost for the work that the government has started. This means that we support what the Minister also clearly stated, namely that action is going to be taken in this area, but it is not going to be today. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the present motion for a resolution, but it is very positive about a discussion, also in the Committee on Research and Education, to look at the possibility of landing a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101719	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101722	Thank you for that and also thank you for your positive reception. One can always wonder why somebody is apologizing for some kind of investigation, and then waits for it. One does not rule out the other when we adopt legislation in here. I would just like to make it clear that this is, of course, a question of giving young children the option. It's not either-or. It is simply that they are given the possibility of either opting for SU or educational assistance. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees that children placed in care should have the same opportunities as all other children should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101801	I would just like to say to Mrs Karina Adsbøl that I am quite aware that this is about an option. But I am now very fond of thoroughness and also of the fact that we are examining the existing state of affairs, which is there, and so we have different practices in the municipalities of the country. So I would prefer that we await the outcome of the study that has been initiated. Mrs Karina Adsbøl has just heard that there is a very positive and, by the way, also a sympathetic attitude on the part of me and the Social Democrats in finding a solution to this problem. We are not going to say anything now about supporting the motion for a resolution, but we are waiting and then we will enter into a constructive and positive discussion on how to resolve this, so that there will be no discrimination here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101849	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101850	Thank you. The rapporteur did not reply to whether the rapporteur felt that children placed in care should have the same opportunities as children not brought in. That's one thing. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur could help to land a joint report in which we are holding up this, precisely so that it does not become some kind of jar of jelly, in relation to we are waiting for something, and then there will be no follow-up. If a majority of at least 90 seats cannot be obtained to vote in favour of this proposal, then the least we can do is to draw up a joint report, so that, in relation to the good intentions that have emerged here today, both from the Minister and also from the rapporteur, we keep to each other that we act on it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101930	I think I actually answered one of the questions that Mrs Adsbøl raises here in her second remark. But what I did not answer, and I would like to do that now, is whether they should have the same opportunities, and yes, they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504101942	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102000	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this important debate. In the Left, we believe that all young people, both housed and housed, must, of course, have equal opportunities to take an education. However, as the proposers have become aware, there seems to be an unintended gap in the current legislation which in some cases seems to give young people who are already experiencing difficulties worse SU conditions than other young people. The Left agrees with the Danish People's Party that there is a need to clarify what the group of placed young people who start an ordinary education have as a revenue base and as an own payment. Therefore, the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs is in the process of a study that is expected to be completed during 2018. Following on from that study, we in the Left will consider the possibility that young people placed in training may opt for SU rather than current education aid. The crucial thing for the Left is that consideration of changes in the dependency base is made on a fully informed basis. In line with the Minister's wishes, we would like the examination of the motion for a resolution to be suspended and the possibilities for addressing the current challenges to be explored in the light of the study by the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. You have a special ability to find these problems, and let's get them solved together. We do not support the proposal now, but it is to resolve it later.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102139	Mrs. Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102141	Thank you. I'm wondering a little bit about this slowness around these questions. SF has asked questions about it here in 2015, the Socialists have also asked questions about it, so that is not a new issue. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur also shares the amazement that it should take so long. The problem has been pointed out in 2015 and today we still have to wait for a study. Isn't that a little sluggish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102215	Yes. When you see a problem that you want to solve and want to find out properly, and it goes slowly, you may wonder about it. But it cannot, instead of making legislation on an undisclosed basis. I fully share Trine Torp's view that sometimes you get a little frustrated by the slowness of the legislative processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102243	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102245	Then I would just like to follow up on this: this is a relatively simple question, but because it goes across ministries, it is that it is going to be slow. So just to be part of the rapporteur's reflection on it, I would like to ask what we really can learn from such a case as this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102300	It's probably the way we translate power across ministries as well as across states and municipalities that has created slowness in this case. But again, I would like to maintain that it is better that something goes slowly and we get a proper solution than that we make laws on undisclosed grounds. And then you have to live with the slowness and together make sure that there is pressure for us to solve this problem, because we agree that it needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102336	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then we will have the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102351	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for making a very good proposal. It is really, really important that we ensure that young people have the opportunity to receive SU, even if they are on detention or in a foster family, and we from the Enhedslisten would very much like to back that up. So I am very pleased that this proposal has been put forward. When it is so important, it is also because it is not just about the economy and what benefit the young people receive, it is simply also about equal rights and equal value, so that everyone who takes an education should be allowed to receive SU, regardless of what their situation is, regardless of whether they are placed outside the home. So I think it's insanely important that we put this right as soon as possible. It has been for too many years that these young people have not had the opportunity to get the SU that I think they basically have a right to receive. I can say that we in the Enhedslisten are simply on the worst side of this matter. We would like to vote in favour of the proposal, we would like to make a report, we would like to talk to the Minister about having it implemented once this study has arrived and so on. We just need to find out. But I have to say that with the history that has been, where we have known about the problem for a very long time and nothing really has happened, I think we have to promise each other that this must happen and happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102517	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102524	Thank you for the floor. After all, the problem we are discussing now, which has been presented with B 121, stems from the desire to motivate young people with major social problems to embark on training. I do not think there are many who disagree with the very intention of the motion for a resolution, at least I have not heard anyone there, namely that young people placed outside the home also have the flexibility that you have when you get SU instead of educational aid. In particular, it is the possibility of working alongside the SU that can strengthen young people's links with the labour market and strengthen the possibility of getting to work after training. However, what is at the heart of the matter, as several speakers have said, is that we also have a principle that we cannot get money from several public funds at the same time, and I therefore think that is basically a sound principle that we must stick to, while ensuring that we give young people the best opportunities to gain control over their own lives. That is why I also think, in line with several of the other rapporteurs, that it has to be said that haste is a load. This problem is being investigated because it involves several different ministries, and the study being carried out by the Ankestyrelsen (Ankestyrelsen) I think we should wait until we finish, so we have a proper basis to discuss it on. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102708	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party, has a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102711	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur said: that you should not have money from more public funds at the same time. Why is it that the rapporteur mentions this? Because that is not what the resolution is about. It is not about having both SU and education aid and other things. It's just an option. So I would like to know why the rapporteur says so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102738	As I have been informed, it goes beyond the area in which I am rapporteur, in other words education, and employment and social affairs, it is becoming clear that there may be a problem of interaction with money from more public funds. If things are going on in the social and employment fields, I have to say that I am not, of course, quite as much in matters as I am if they were in the area of SU. But that's how I've been informed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102807	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102808	Yes, but it is just because our resolution states that the purpose of the resolution is to allow the over 2 000 young people aged between 18 and 23 who are placed outside the home to opt for SU instead of education aid. So we are not talking about money from more public funds, which was what the rapporteur said, just compared to that part. I will then hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that this is a good idea, given that this has been so long in the process that the ministries have to talk to each other across ministries in order to solve the problems that exist. As the SF's rapporteur said, this has been a long time in the process, so that is not a new issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102853	As I mentioned earlier, I am neither an employment nor a social rapporteur, and it is, of course, quite a handicap when working on a cross-cutting proposal. However, I am actually the rapporteur for debureaucratisation in my party, and I can only tell you that this talk and coordination of ministries is incredibly difficult and in line with the creation of a fusion reactor or something. It's practically impossible. But hope is bright green, and I look forward to reading the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102924	Thank you for that. It may be that the new minister is listening. Please, go back downstairs. We need a new rapporteur, and that is Mrs... yes, it is from the alternative Pernille Schnoor! ) Yes, that is quite right. Welcome to Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504102934	Thank you. First of all, this proposal is actually very good, and it should not be a secret that it is not so often that I stand on the platform and say that a proposal from the Danish People's Party is good. So I'm glad to be able to say that here today. Because it's actually really good. It aims to give young people more opportunities, and in our optics it is the opportunities that are worth gold for all young people. With this proposal, a gap has been found in the legislation which is not fair for the young people who, as we have heard earlier, have been placed outside the home either in a foster family or in a 24-hour institution or in other institutions. They receive training aid, but then they do not have the same opportunities to receive SU, and on that basis they do not have the opportunity to work under the same conditions as other young people. The current conditions prevent them, for example, as I just mentioned, from taking a leisure job and getting a taste of the working life that can involve them in some meaningful communities. I think I will try to be brief because we have heard a great deal from the previous rapporteurs. However, one of the things I would like to emphasise in my rapporteur's speech is that there are several studies which indicate that the risk of social exclusion increases with age, and research also shows that there has been a polarisation of those who are excluded and those who are included. For example: That's 4.5%. of the Danish population, and that corresponds to about 190,000 people who simply lack a network. They have problems not being part of a network and they need support. And the proportion is almost three times as high among the socially vulnerable. There are remarkable statistics showing that many people lack relationships. Everyone has the right to a place in the community, and this also requires that we have a high cohesion in our society and that we have respect for diversity. In this context, we believe that it makes very good sense for young people who are placed outside the home in either the foster family or the institution, and who may have difficulty, to be able to choose the community for. Indeed, we want a socially sustainable society where individuals experience that life is characterised by meaningfulness and quality of life and that they have social significance. That is precisely why we think it is important to have a look at these rules and frameworks, and that is why we are in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504103258	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504103311	Thank you. I shall give a very brief rapporteur's speech, because in the Radical Left we think, as in the Danish People's Party and as the former Minister for Education and Research has also said, that it is not reasonable for young people over 18 years of age to be unable to receive SU if they wish to start an education under normal conditions. Then I would like to sign for the new minister's speech and attitude here today that we should do something about it. And in the Radical Left, we look very much forward to what this welfare study will achieve. In fact, we would very much like to be able to draw up a report in which we could agree to include what the Minister also says in his speech, in other words to wait for the study. However, if we cannot agree on this, we are also ready to support the proposal. But most of all we saw that here in the Folketing we could make a joint report, because it sounds as if we are quite in agreement. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504103422	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504103428	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for submitting the proposal. We in the SF are very positive about that. The aim, as described in the comments on the proposal, is to enable the over 2 000 young people aged between 18 and 23 who are placed outside the home and who are on educational assistance to receive SU instead. As the proposal also points out, there are problems with the current system. Many of the young people who are placed outside the home in either a foster family or in a 24-hour institution receive training aid at the level of the SU rate, but unlike the young people at the SU, the young person must not receive any income in addition to his or her allowance, nor any savings of more than DKK 10,000, without any set-off. It simply does not make sense, and this is quite unfair discrimination, and fortunately it has also been confirmed by several, including the new minister, and welcome to him. Why should one not have the same opportunities as other young people in education just because one has not grown up with one's parents? To be able to obtain work experience through a study job and to be able to save, etc. is of course both important for, what can one say, one's ability to gain relevant experience, but of course also very much in relation to the identity of being like all other young people. These young people in particular need to move into a life where they can live like others of their peers. In the SF, we have been concerned about the problem for a long time, and we have been asking questions to the then Minister for Education and Research as far back as 2015 about the problem. We have among other things. In this context, it should be pointed out that the Commission's proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer does not constitute an adequate basis for the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to the market. At that time, the answer was that it was apparently not possible to calculate the additional costs that might be involved, which in my view is a little strange in itself. We have also asked about possible challenges in relation to the existing SU rules. Here was the answer, as has also been mentioned here today, that a justification for obtaining SU under the SU law is that the trainees do not receive any other public aid to cover their cost of living. In the practice adopted so far, it has been assumed that young people placed outside the home are under other public support and that they cannot therefore be entitled to SU and, as far as I can understand, this is also the case with the Minister, on the one hand, and the fact that they are receiving training grants on the other, and, on the other hand, they will not get access to the placement alone, as if they are receiving public help, and that is where the film breaks from my side. Because they are just like young people who stay at home with their parents until after the 18th year, and therefore it is quite unreasonable that it should be regarded as a public support. In the SF, we are more than prepared to find solutions to meet it, and we would very much like to support the resolution, and we would also like to be involved in drawing up a report in order to speed it up here, and it is fine with declarations of intent. I just think it's incredibly slow when you think about what else we can rush through in this Parliament of wild boar border fence and everything else. Things are going pretty fast, but when it comes to children and young people in care, it has to take years. I simply do not think that this is appropriate, so I hope that the process will be speeded up a little, and we shall gladly be included in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504103831	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504103840	Thank you. The purpose of this proposal is to allow the 2 000 young people aged 18 to 23 who are placed outside the home to opt for SU instead of educational assistance. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate on the dependency base of young people placed in education. The Government, as the Minister also mentioned, proposes that the examination of the motion for a resolution be suspended, on the grounds that the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs is carrying out an investigation into the income base of young people in detention, and that the government will consider the possibility, following the investigation, that young people in detention who are undergoing ordinary education may receive SU. It is important that the changes in the remuneration of young people placed in care take place on an enlightened basis. We would therefore like to await the study, which is expected to be completed here during 2018, before further decision is taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504103944	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504103958	Thank you very much for that, President. Thank you very much for today's debate. We are incredibly pleased with the great support that the proposal nevertheless receives. It would have been most perfect if we had just been able to vote it through right away. The reason why we in the Danish People's Party have tabled this motion for a resolution is that we believe that we should have corrected the injustice that exists today. We have a group of young people who are outside the home and who do not have the same opportunities as other young people who are not outside the home. Young people in positions deserve respect, including having to be treated on an equal footing with all other young people. There may be many reasons why you are placed outside the home in either a foster family, an institution or other. And on top of the living conditions you have, you must also experience that you do not have the same rights as the peers in the training; you must experience that the comrades have more opportunities to live a normal youth life, have a leisure job, have the opportunity to save up. That is why the resolution is precisely about young people aged 18 to 23, who are placed outside the home and who are under public support, also having the opportunity to choose the SU. The young person has the right to receive cash benefits as for young people under the age of 25, which is called training aid if the conditions for it are met. If the young person does not meet the conditions for cash benefits, the municipality is obliged to provide the young person with support and pay for accommodation and accommodation and clothing and allowance, etc. in the same way as in the case of a child or a young person under the age of 18. Try to reflect on it, that is, that the young adults should be treated as children. Is that fair? There are over 2,000 young people aged between 18 and 23 who are placed outside the home. So we in the Danish People's Party think this is a very good proposal. Because you must not make money next to your education or have a savings of more than 10,000 kroner. without being offset in the benefit. And while comrades also have the opportunity to take up an SU loan, the closed country is for young people placed in care. Is that fair? Already in 2015, the Ekstra Bladet described the problem in an article. Mark Goldsmith, a social worker and family care consultant in Ikast-Brande Municipality, has been working with young people for a long time, and he believes that the lack of SU law affects young people in several ways. And I quote: there is the emotional consequence of these young people once being told that they are not like the others. And then there is the economic consequence of the fact that they cannot make money next door and have a savings. And then there is also something educational about educating young people to become self-supporting and save themselves for example. a driving licence or to leave home. But it simply cannot be done as it is now," says Mark Goldsmith. In the 2015 article, Mark Goldsmith also receives support from his boss, Anton Rasmussen, who is the head of children and family in Ikast-Brande Municipality. He tells us that he is often approached by foster families or educators at places of residence who find it difficult to believe that the young people placed in the care should be discriminated against in this way in relation to the classmates. The size of the SU is, of course, at a level where it is intended that you can either take an SU loan or have a leisure job next door, and this group of young people will not be able to do so. So I think we should act on that from the Danish Parliament. On 10 September 2015, the Minister for Education and Research, Esben Lunde Larsen, replied, inter alia, that a general amendment to the SU rules could be granted to young people in care, while the young person receives public support, for example: In order to cover the cost of accommodation and accommodation, it would be possible to create considerable ambiguity in the system, which could in future make it difficult to avoid the coincidence of public services. The Minister also replied that the Higher Education Agency was, however, in dialogue with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs on the issue and that any adjustment of practice on when young people placed outside the home are considered to receive other public aid intended to cover the cost of living thus excludes SU. It was then in 2015. Then we come to 13 May 2016, when Minister for Education and Research Ulla Tørnæs follows up on the matter and answers that there is a need for further coverage of what the group of young people placed in care today has as a revenue base before a decision can be taken on the concrete proposal for a possible adjustment of practice for SU. And it is almost two years ago, so that is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that it is time for something to happen now. And, as mentioned earlier, the former Minister, Søren Pind, replied in March that he did not consider it reasonable either. So we in the Danish People's Party would like to see us now ensure that these young people are properly treated, that they are supported in developing into ordinary, active young people with the same opportunities as all other young people. We are incredibly pleased with the support that the resolution has received, and we therefore also hope that we will be able to bring it together together, if only in relation to a report, so that we will at least oblige each other to take responsibility for finding a solution in this area. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, among others. the rapporteurs from the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Radicals, who fully support the proposal and could also vote in favour today if it were. So I look forward to the further reading of the committee, and then we will see where we can meet, so that we can finally find a solution for the young people who have been placed, so that they can have the same opportunities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504104620	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504104635	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504104706	Thank you again for the floor. Today we are discussing research and mapping the use of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and young people's psychiatry. The authors of the motion for a resolution B 103 want the government to set up an independent research unit under the Ministry of Health and the Elderly. The research unit shall ensure research and dissemination of knowledge on the use of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and young people's psychiatry. The research unit shall at the same time ensure a thorough mapping of psychopharmaceuticals not approved for children and adolescents, as well as the use of this type of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and juvenile psychiatry. In this context, the proposers propose that funds be set aside for the creation of the unit at next year's negotiation of the research reserve. When I stand here today on behalf of the government, it is among other things. Against this background. Research into mental health is very relevant. This is largely reflected in the FORSK2025 catalogue, where among other things. is focused on the need to create better mental health for children and young people. So the focus is on the area within the existing framework. It is also the case that there are already professional environments in universities and other knowledge institutions that are researching in the field. A survey report on Danish psychiatry research from COWI shows that since 2009 Danish research environments have published 1,831 references in scientific journals in the psychiatric field. 13% of those studies were just about children and young people. Public clinical research in the field of health is generally a regional and a municipal issue. It follows from the Health Act. Therefore, health research is typically not organised under the auspices of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. Research is carried out in hospitals, universities and other professional environments. At the same time, research contributes to education and training. This synergy will not be achieved if research centres are placed under ministries, in this case the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. On the other hand, it is important that the research effort builds on the knowledge and research environments that already exist, and it is important that the results are used in the programmes of the students who will at some point be responsible for the treatment of mentally ill children and young people. Furthermore, I would add that the European Commission and the European Medicines Agency are working for several paediatric research programmes and increased knowledge sharing at European level. When we talk about the use of psychopharmaceuticals for children and young people, it is important to make sure that the figures show a positive development with a decreasing consumption of psychopharmaceuticals for children and young people. For example, from 2010 to 2016, the number of children entering antidepressants has decreased by just under 50%. This is a really positive development and an important premise for a nuanced discussion of the psychiatric treatment of children and young people. The government is preparing a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry. Here too, the psychiatry of children and youth will be involved. On the use of psychopharmaceuticals which are not approved for children and young people, the government considers that the problem of too few authorised medicines for children is a common European problem which is best solved within the EU. I can add that the EU's efforts to provide more authorised medicines for children on a research-based basis are beginning to show an effect. From 2012 to 2016, there has been a doubling of the number of clinical trials with medicinal products for children in Denmark. At EU level, similar positive developments are seen only on a much larger scale. Finally, I would like to mention that it is an important principle that strategic research funding from the research reserve is mainly allocated in open competition after application and professional evaluation, with emphasis on quality, impact and relevance. The principle supports that funds are given to those projects which have the highest research quality. For the above reasons, the government does not wish to support the motion for a resolution No. B 103.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105135	Thank you, Minister. There is a comment or a question from Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105140	First of all, I hear what the Minister is saying, and then the Minister must correct me if it is wrong that it is the government's view that there is enough research in this area. I am just a little puzzled because that is not what we often hear in this debate. In fact, it is often said that we lack knowledge of what effects and side effects are for children in this use of psychopharmaceuticals. We have referred to an article in the Weekwriting for Doctors, made by senior researcher Anne Katrine Pagsberg and Professor Per Hove Thomsen, who in their article, like others, argues that we simply lack a systematic basic research into this, and not something that is spread out. When we argue in favour of independent research, it is also to get some of the research that is in the pharmaceutical industry, which has clear interests in this, removed from there and then have more independent research. So what is the Minister thinking about creating independent research in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105251	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105252	I agree that children and young people's mental health is an important area of research, and what I am saying with the research report from COWI is that something is already happening. The government says in FORSK2025, we'd like to do more in this area. It is a strategic area and we say that there should be a focus on children and young people's mental health. But what we are proposing to continue to do is to take that discussion when the government sits down with the Danish Parliament and discusses the research reserve and thus see if we can allocate some funds in general to health and then put it into the processes that exist where in free competition it is the projects with the highest professional judgement that win. But we think that we should take the discussion there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105343	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105345	Well, it's good that the discussion is going on there too. One can just get such a statement from the Minister: will it also weigh heavily in this free competition that it is independent research, that is, that there are no interests of the pharmaceutical industry mixed into the research being done around this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105404	I support all research and I think we should take the discussion when we implement the research reserve. And then, in free competition, we have to let the best projects win.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105424	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105427	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister what is also stated in the proposal, namely that it is actually 30-40 per cent. of the out-of-label clinical psychiatric part of the health care system. This means that these are preparations which do not appear in the package leaflet, that they are for children, and we do not really know whether children can tolerate it. Is that not an indication that there is no research and that there is no knowledge of what we really have to give to children?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105502	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105504	I would say that it can be interpreted as if there is more to be done in this area, and I also hope that the research environments will be involved in this. However, as it is, we can see that this is already happening in the European Union and that there are an increasing amount of clinical trials that are precisely addressing psychopharmaceuticals for children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105527	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105529	I called last year for a consultation on this subject, and there I also found out that it is, in fact, because there is a lack of documentation, as is also stated in this proposal, because there is little research in the field of medicine in the field of children. Does the Minister not think that it is deeply problematic that we are actually 30-40 per cent? Of the ordinations give children a preparation that we don't know about and whether children can tolerate and that we don't get any more research into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105606	I would like more research to come into this, but I also think that we have a fine system to translate this research reserve, and through the processes that normally are, we choose the research project with the highest research quality. I'd like to see more of this coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105623	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105626	Thank you. In fact, I very much agree with the Minister's remark that when we meet and have to negotiate on the research funds, it must be done, it can be said, in a free space, and subsequently it must also be done on the basis of quality. So I agree with the Minister in this respect. What I would like to ask is: will the Minister also confirm that it follows the tradition, in other words that all parties are usually invited to negotiations on the research reserve so that we can join together in this room and also have the discussion on this subject?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105652	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105659	I think you all seem very, very nice, and I love discussion. So I'd like to confirm that you're all invited to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105709	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105711	I'd just like to sign for that. I think that's really nice. I think it is important that we all discuss our research policy together, and then we'll see what we can agree on, including on this specific one. I support the intention in the proposal, but not the fact that we must bind the funds in advance in the research negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105727	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504105751	First of all, thank you to the SF for focusing on this agenda on medicines for children and young people. The Social Democratic Party welcomes this. The problem is extremely topical. More and more children are in need of help in psychiatry. Brand new figures from KL also show that the number of children and young people who have a psychiatric diagnosis has doubled in just 7 years, so there is no doubt that there is a need for more knowledge in this area, both about why more and more children and young people are becoming ill, but not least about how we are preventing it, and also how we are going to treat it. Therefore, there is also a need for more knowledge about the medicine that we use for the treatment. We are not opposed to medicines for children and young people, but when that happens, it is of course important that it is professionally based and that the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority are respected. We should not gamble with the well-being and well-being of our children. That goes without saying. When it comes to medicine as a tool in the treatment, it is an individual assessment where it is the doctor's responsibility to ensure that the treatment and use of the medicine comply with the professional recommendations and guidelines available in this area and inform patients and their relatives about it. This is true whether it is children or adults. That is why we also fully recognise the intention of this motion for a resolution that we are discussing today and that there is a need for more knowledge about the medicine we use to treat mental illness and which we give to our children. Against this background, there is also a need for more research on this, there is no doubt about side effects, effects and, of course, whether the medicine works on children. Of course, it is best if the medicine used for children is also tested exactly in this context. The widespread trend towards what is called off label use of medicine in children's and youth psychiatry hangs among other things. together with relatively few approved psychopharmaceuticals in children under 18 years of age. Of course, you might wish for that to be different, which is why we would like more research. We are just not sure that the creation of a research unit under the Ministry, as proposed by the SF, is the best access to research into medicine. And this proposal is aimed solely at creating a separate and independent research unit under the Ministry of Health and the Elderly, which is responsible for conducting research on the spread and knowledge of the use of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and young people's psychiatry. We are not sure that this is the best way to gain the knowledge and security we need in relation to children who need psychiatric treatment, and that is the most important starting point for social democracy, that is, that children, when they are ill, can receive the treatment that is best. This also applies to the possibility of getting medicines that work. Furthermore, it is unclear exactly what needs to be clarified and researched in the newly created research unit. This is not apparent from the wording of the motion for a resolution, nor from the level of funding required. Of course, the proposers point to funding the research unit with a so-called unknown amount on the research reserve. We have to negotiate the research reserve in the autumn, we do so every year. I can now understand that, if I heard the Minister correctly, all parties are called to the research reserve negotiations, and of course the Social Democrats are looking forward to that. However, in view of the research reserve debate which we are waiting for, of course, to come on the basis of the government's proposals, we simply believe that it is too early to start in a resolution to set aside parts of the reserve in advance for specific research projects and, on that basis, we cannot support the present resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110139	Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110142	Thank you. There's always room for discussion on this issue of funding. We have also left it a little open in our proposal, so if you really wanted to implement the resolution, you could do it and find the money elsewhere. But what I wanted to hear from the rapporteur is that it would not be suitable to be under the authority of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly as an independent research unit. Then I would just like to hear the rapporteur's suggestion as to where it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110211	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110213	We think that there are probably plenty of research environments which are already well advanced on this point. There is not yet enough research in this area, but to have to bind such an important area in a unit of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly, we do not think it is optimal at this stage. In discussing this, I certainly expect that the SF will come to the negotiating table on the research reserve, perhaps precisely with an expanded argument as to where the research environments should lie. Then I hope that we will be able to hold that discussion at that time. However, already at this stage to say that it was best placed under the Ministry of Health and the Elderly, we think we are too risky to secure a long-standing research unit located in a resort area. It is simply too uncertain at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110309	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110311	That's fair enough. But what we are concerned with is creating independent research. Does the rapporteur agree that part of the research on psychopharmaceuticals is not independent?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110330	The social democracy is certainly also, like the SF, very concerned about having to have independent research. I agree that there is a great deal of research in this area that is not independent, and I hope that we can jointly agree that something more needs to be done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110346	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110356	Thank you for that and also thank you to the SF for making a proposal on this important subject. The proposal points to issues that we must certainly always seek to be wiser about. There are very many children and young people who are prescribed psychopharmaceuticals, and it is important that neither too little nor too much is given and that the preparations given are the right ones for the individual. After all, the rules in this area were tightened up in a guidance in 2011, when the Danish Health Authority stated that it is a child- and youth-psychiatric specialist task to assess whether children or young people under the age of 18 need medical treatment. It is also clear from the guidance that general practitioners are entitled to medical maintenance treatment for children and adolescents under 18 years of age with mental illness, but that this should be done after a specific agreement and in cooperation with a specialist in children's and young people's psychiatry. The medical treatment of children and young people with mental disorders may also be started by the general practitioner if this happens after a conference with a specialist or children's and youth psychiatry. In the period following the guidance in 2011, according to an article in the Medical Journal of August 2017, there has been a marked decrease in the proportion of children and young people receiving their first prescription of antidepressants in general practice. Compared with the rest of the country, general practice in the Capital Region and the Region of Zealand stands for the lowest proportion of the so-called first-time prescription of antidepressants for children and young people. When the proposers then describe the worrying fact that there is a variation from 3.7 per cent. of children and young people receiving psychopharmaceuticals at the OUH Odense University Hospital, at 52.6%. in Region Sjælland's hospital service, we in the Danish People's Party can agree that there is a need to look at something here. So it is not certain that in this context it should be a new research unit, because it is also about what kind of practice you have in different places. This should also give rise to a debate across the regions about the practices and why there are major differences. That certainly does not require a research centre. I hope that they are already doing so on their own initiative in the regions. If we cannot work across the regions, then we will have an additional argument for abolishing the regions and ensuring a more coherent system. A key task for the regions across the board is precisely to ensure that the level and quality of treatment are at the same high level throughout the country. Having said that, we in the Danish People's Party will not totally reject the need for research in this area. Today we have a system which provides universities with the means to carry out research together with university hospitals. In addition, we have both public and private funds that support research based on applications from researchers. Here it is the level of the planned research project that determines whether a project can also be supported. The SF proposal proposes the creation of a research unit under the Ministry of Health and the Elderly. In the opinion of the Danish People's Party, it makes no sense to use resources to create a new independent research unit, because it takes time and costs many resources to build a research unit and a research environment. Research such as that proposed should be anchored on, among other things. universities. The proposal refers to negotiations on the research reserve in the autumn. In principle, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the money in the research reserve should be given to the best research applications. We do not believe that, as politicians, we can see which research is the right one. Having said that, we recognise that we also need more knowledge in this area. That is why we would like to take part in the forthcoming negotiations on the research reserve in the autumn in discussing the need and the possibility of allocating a pool to research into children's and young people's psychiatry. We have also allocated funds in the past for research, among other things. in medical cannabis. But we do not think it is the right way to set up a research centre under the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. That is why we do not support the resolution as it stands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110848	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110850	I am pleased to hear that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party supports at least that this could be an important area of action in the forthcoming negotiations on the research reserve. It is certainly a good step along the way. Then there is the question of where it should be. And I would like to ask the same question that I actually asked the Socialist rapporteur. Does the rapporteur have any idea how we will ensure that those who are going to research in this area have no other interests than the totally independent research in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504110925	Well, I'm not an expert at knowing how to secure it. Because if it was the case that you had to secure it, hopefully it was already secured. So if I could just stand by and guarantee how we're gonna secure that, I think I'd be very smart. But I fully agree that we need to have a look at this, and of course that is an important point about independent research. Because we also know that there can be great interests in this area in relation to medicine and other things. So there I think we have a joint task, both as politicians and also in the various ministries, i.e. we simply work together on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111009	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. It's Left's turn. Sir. Mads Birded, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111025	Thank you for the floor. These are some sensible ideas on the basis of which today's proposals are based. I fully recognise the need for research into psychopharmaceuticals, especially when they are given to children and young people. But when the Left cannot support the SF's proposal, it is because within professional knowledge organisations there is already research into the use of psychopharmaceuticals for children and young people. In addition, public clinical research in the field of health is usually a regional and municipal matter. Research is thus carried out in hospitals and universities, where it contributes to education and is therefore not organised under the auspices of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. If we placed research centres under the Ministry, we would create unnecessary bureaucracy and take them away from the institutions where they belong best. I do not think we will have any beneficial effect on that; it would not be appropriate, in other words. It should also be noted that the government is currently drawing up a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry in which the psychiatry of children and young people is involved. And within the existing framework, we already have a great focus on children and young people's mental health. At international level, too, the European Commission and the European Medicines Agency are currently working on several paediatric research programmes and increased knowledge sharing at European level. A great deal is already going on in this area, and it is important that we support what is going on there. I think it is a good principle that strategic research funding from the research reserve is allocated in open competition following a professional evaluation of applications with emphasis on, among other things, one of them. quality, efficacy and relevance. It should be remembered that there is much that could be desired in research. There are just no societies in the world that have become richer by the fact that there has been increased political governance of research. We get best research through free research. And when you have public funds in research, the funds are part of a zero-sum game. If you're researching somewhere, there are other places that can't get that much money. This will also apply here. And why break with the principles that have made us a rich and highly developed society that others envy? The authors of the motion for a resolution want to break with this principle, and that is probably the most worrying aspect of the proposal, i.e. the desire to have political control over free research. For these reasons, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111320	Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111323	In addition to the list of criteria for the research provided for in the research reserve, would the rapporteur be prepared to have a criterion of independence as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111343	We already have free research at home, and when there is research that is bound up with some sort of addiction, I am sure that we are thinking of using private research funds which aim to create preparations and products which we are also getting richer from being created and, of course, there must be a balance between private and public funds. Some funds will have the aim of creating a product, others are for more free research and open research, which must be completely independent. There must be a healthy balance in that, otherwise we will not get richer either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111421	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111423	But does the rapporteur accept that there may be a problem in the fact that the research mainly in this area is carried out by the pharmaceutical industry itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111437	As I see the figures for what research is like here, there is an industry that is interested in developing preparations in this area, and then there is a public particularly associated with hospitals and universities, which also have a somewhat different purpose. And I am glad that there is that balance so that we both get better preparations that make us richer and strengthen our ability to develop, and that we have a free research that uncovers the area more generally and is not tied up with a preparation. That balance is important to maintain.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111510	Thank you. There are no more comments. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111528	Thank you very much to the SF for the proposal. I think that the content of the proposal is really important because we have the opportunity to address a problem that is also of great concern to us in the Enhedslisten, namely that a great deal of psychopharmaceuticals are being printed daily for children, which we do not actually quite know how to work and where we do not know the side effects that children may also risk from taking this medicine. So I think that is very important. It is also about the fact that when figures from the Danish Health Service, for example. shows that 39%. Of the medicines we give to children, not approved for children, there is also a huge backlog in this area and that something has to happen. It is incredibly important that we get more knowledge. This is primarily about the safety of children, but I also think that many of the specialists who sit around working with the area also feel that they are groping blindly, so it is also to get them dressed better. It's becoming more and more common to prescribe this antidepressant for children, so it's essential to get something done about it. Basically one can say that the thriving years of growing up as a child and young person are just so crucially important. It is terrible when children and young people are not well and do not thrive, and it also often leaves scars on the soul far into adulthood, and therefore this area is absolutely crucial. I also share the SF's approach that we should have much more publicly funded research, especially in the field of pharmaceuticals, because we cannot simply leave it to the big pharmaceutical companies to carry out that research. We need to have our own public research into what kind of medicine it is that best serves our citizens. So I agree with that again. We have also invited both Enhedslistens, SF and the Alternative to a conference on public research in medicine here later in May. So it's super good. But what I am not so happy about this proposal is that the proposers say that these 4 million. kr. To set up this unit is to be found in the research reserve at the forthcoming negotiations on it. After all, we all know that the research area has already been drastically reduced and that free research in particular is very much under pressure. That is why I think that if we begin here in the Folketing to earmark in advance some funds to set up one unit over in another ministry and put it over to the research reserve. I am simply really afraid that it will develop in a very wrong direction. So we simply cannot support the form of funding, but I am glad that it is formulated a little more openly. So if we can agree on something here along the way, where we kind of say that okay, we can get closer to the goal and for example. If we can find the money in the Ministry of Health, if that is where we want to set it up, or if we can make a report that hits it in a better way, we would very much like to support it from the Enhedslisten, but I think that it hits the wrong side of the funding side. Then I would like to say in relation to the upcoming research negotiations that I am very pleased with the Minister's invitation to all parties and thank you very much for that and, of course, we can also discuss there, as we have done before, how we can strengthen public research, and there I think this is also a very obvious area, but let us not dwell on the fact that this is where the funding is to be found. But with that I would like to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111914	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504111921	Thank you for the floor. Proposal B 103, as mentioned, is that an independent research unit should be set up under the Ministry of Health and the Elderly to deal with the use of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and young people's psychiatry. Since I only have a five-minute speaking time, I have to skip the wraps. It is rare that I have seen a resolution that goes against so many of the principles I see as fundamental to the interaction between the political level and the research institutions. The political level should not steer the research institutions in detail. If you want to control police operations, you have to make a career there, not as a politician. If you want to run the train, you have to make a career in DSB, not in this house. And if you want to manage the researchers' priorities, you have to make a career as a researcher or as a university administrator. So briefly, the good and healthy arm's length principle is not being respected with this proposal. Then I also think it is a mistake for politicians to set up tailor-made institutions to serve their own political priorities. Research is already being carried out in psychopharmaceuticals for children and young people at the University of Copenhagen. Therefore, we should not spread resources in this way, where we should also create an independent bureaucracy, etc. I see it as an injustice to define politically a professional problem. How do you best treat children and young people with psychiatric problems? That is surely the fundamental question, and I think that some researchers should clarify this, not people sitting in this Chamber. That is why I think that a research centre, which is politically limited to dealing with only one treatment option, is a bad thing. Last but certainly not least, I have to say that just the idea that we are starting to distribute the research reserve in a way that reminds me of how we deal with the rate pool fills me with political horror. So it goes without saying that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112129	Thank you. Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112134	I can hear that it is far from being the case that the Liberal Alliance is going to support it, but I could almost understand from the rapporteur that it is not okay to think politically that there is an area that needs to be clarified better. So, is it a general view of the Liberal Alliance that if there is something you think there is a lack of knowledge about, then you should not have a political opinion about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112159	When it comes to research, I am in favour of a very large proportion of research being what is unfortunately called bottom-up with an English term. It is a very, very healthy principle of research. Of course, you can have some major strategic efforts, but they should be dealt with by a thorough political process, where there is also peer review and where there is competition about how research is actually being implemented. But bottom-up projects are the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112230	There are no further comments. Thank you, and then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112242	Thank you, and first of all thank you to the SF for making this proposal. This is something very close to my heart, and that is why I also called last year for a conciliation on exactly the same issue. I simply think it is unacceptable that so many children should be given medicines which are not intended for them at all and where it is actually stated in the package leaflet that it is not intended for children because there is a lack of research to document the effects on children of this psychopharmaceutical. So there is undoubtedly a lack of research in this area. In general, there is a lack of research in the area of children and medicine. In 2016, almost 11,000 children had psychopharmaceuticals. That's a lot, a lot of kids, and I think that's too many kids. It also indicates that there is a lack of research, including in what alternative options there are for giving medication. We are not against medicine, but we are against the fact that it is the only option and that medicines are not intended for children at all, and that there is absolutely no idea what the consequences for these children will be in the long term. We are therefore in favour of the proposal. I am aware of that, and I can also hear from the other rapporteurs that there is something practical to be done about how it can be implemented, and I will not comment on that here. But we are positive about the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112440	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112448	First of all, thanks to the SF for your ever-great focus on psychiatry, especially in relation to children and young people. And this is very much an area which is also of great concern to the Radical Left. In these years we see a sharp increase in the number of children and young people who are diagnosed and, like the SF, we believe that there is a need to pay attention to the psychopharmaceuticals used in the treatment of children and young people in particular. And Lotte Rod, for whom I am a deputy, has taken the initiative in the past for a hearing here in Parliament on this very subject, because children should not be on pills if we can help them in other ways. In the Radical Left, we want medicines for children in most cases not to be the first choice. Of course, there may be children and young people who need medication right away.I fully acknowledge that, but for the vast majority, medicine should only be given when there is a whole lot of other, medically, educational, social, that has been tested. That is why the Radical Left can support the SF motion for a resolution on this independent research unit. However, we are not very much in favour of having the research reserve at our disposal in the Parliamentary Assembly during a motion for a resolution, but since the SF also writes and I have noted that they are also willing to discuss the actual design and financing of the unit with those parties which support the proposal, we would like to take part in it. We just cannot use the research reserve here on a Friday morning in May. I should also like to say that we are also sceptical about whether the unit should lie under the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. We may think it was more obvious to place such a research unit under, for example, a university. But all of this is something that we want to be involved in discussing, because we support the proposal very briefly and we want to help find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112650	There is a brief comment. And then we have to remember such a quiet Friday morning that we say Mr. and Mrs and do not use direct indictment. That's the way it is. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112700	I am just a little curious about the fact that we are politicians and that, as far as I know, not one of us is present in this Chamber who is a psychiatrist or a psychologist or knows anything about how to treat children with mental illness. How can it be for the Radical Left, a party that has always stood on the side of enlightenment, an informed position that politicians should take a position on how to treat mentally ill children. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112734	Well, then I think that Mr. Henrik Dahl has misunderstood my rapporteur's speech, because the Radical Left does not want to be the ones to tell how to treat sick children and young people. On the contrary, we support this particular proposal in order to have some research in this area, because we want to have some more knowledge of this area. Because we can certainly see that there is very, very wide variation depending on whether you are being admitted with a diagnosis at Odense University Hospital or somewhere in Region Sjælland. There are so great differences geographically that it cannot be explained simply by the fact that there may be differences between children and young people. So that's why we need to get a closer look at this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112819	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504112835	This resolution concerns the creation of an independent research unit under the Ministry of Health and the Elderly to ensure research and dissemination of knowledge on the use of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and young people's psychiatry. In addition, it is proposed that funds be allocated to the unit for next year's allocation of the research reserve. I recognise the importance of research in psychopharmaceuticals, and there are already professional environments in universities and other knowledge institutions that are researching in the field. Health research is typically not organised under the auspices of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly, but research is carried out in hospitals, universities and other professional environments. At the same time, research contributes to education and training. The Conservative People's Party considers it most appropriate that research efforts should be carried out at universities or university hospitals, and that strategic research funding from the research reserve should be allocated mainly in open, free competition following application and professional evaluation, with emphasis on among other things: quality, efficacy and relevance. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113000	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've had the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113010	First of all, thank you for the debate, which came to be both about research and psychiatry. In SF we are very concerned about discussing how we can constantly improve psychiatry, and I can also hear that there are other parties there. The debate on the use of psychopharmaceuticals is highly topical and relevant. It is about getting a better overview of the consequences that psychopharmaceuticals can have on patients' treatment in psychiatric, in the short and long term. Knowledge is needed in this area, and both professionals and researchers emphasise this, especially in relation to the use of psychopharmaceuticals for children and young people. When more research is needed, it is fundamental because today there is a great deal of uncertainty about the effects of the medicine on that particular group. The proposal we have put forward here is to set up an independent research unit under the Ministry of Health and the Elderly to ensure even more research into and dissemination of knowledge on the use of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and young people's psychiatry. The clear and primary aim of the proposed research unit is to identify an area where there is great professional uncertainty and where in the years to come there may be a greater need for knowledge about the importance of psychopharmaceuticals for the health of children and young people. At the same time, the research unit will be responsible for a basic mapping of all use of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and young people's psychiatry, which is not approved for children and young people, what is called off label use. Off label use of psychopharmaceuticals for children and young people is not unproblematic, and what we know today is that there is a widespread tendency for off label use in children's and youth psychiatry. It is a big decision to give children and young people that treatment. They are at risk of being subjected to treatment with preparations that are directly harmful to their health and that we do not know the real side effects or long-term effects of. Therefore, when we make this proposal, we are also leaning on professionalism. In the comments to the proposal, we refer several times to senior researcher Anne Katrine Pagsberg and Professor Per Hove Thomsen's article in the Weekwriting for Doctors of December last year, in which they thoroughly examine several of the main challenges of using off label psychopharmaceuticals in children's and youth psychiatry. At the same time, they point out that research into medicines for children and young people is so limited that it makes off-label use necessary and creates a serious problem that violates the right of children and young people to effective and safe medical care. That is why it is so crucial that we have a greater basis for evidence in relation to the use and impact of psychopharmaceuticals in children's and young people's psychiatry, and that is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution. I have, of course, listened to the view that, in particular, the funding and, in particular, the location in the Ministry of Health and the Elders are the major knots in terms of support for our proposal, which is why we have left it somewhat open not only in terms of funding, but also in terms of how we construct it. What is just important for the SF is that it is a research that is independent of the interests of the pharmaceutical industry, because we must be able to rely on the knowledge we get to be independent too. I hear that there is recognition of the need for knowledge and recognition of the importance of research in this area. Because what we need to be aware of is that when we do not have knowledge and research into the consequences of the use of these preparations, we are actually doing an experiment with children and young people, just out in reality. We have research data on how something like this works on adults, and then you just adjust it by body weight. But here we are dealing with children and young people whose brains are developing and who are growing, and we do not really know the long-term effects of it. We know that there is a risk of suicide, for example. the use of antidepressants, but that is the whole knowledge that we believe should be provided. So what I can conclude when I pick up on this is that I will try to see if I can make a report that, if nothing else, embraces the intentions of the proposal and then see how many of the parties can be involved. And then I hope that just the fact that we had the debate in the Chamber will make it possible for the forthcoming negotiations in the research reserve to focus on children's and young people's psychiatry as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113511	There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113516	Now, in fact, the rapporteur has more or less replied to it, but I would just like to ask a little more about the reasons. I wanted to know whether we could look at another way of financing, and if the rapporteur does not agree entirely with what many of us have also said, namely that our free research is insanely important and that we should not, in this way, be politically committed to many of the funds in advance, but that they should be implemented in accordance with the general research procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113550	We have also indicated it because we think it is appropriate to make an offer, if nothing else, as to how it can be financed, and that is also why we do not have an amount set aside either. The extent to which it should be dealt with is, of course, the subject of debate again, which is why we are leaving it open. That is quite fine, but I also think that it is not excluded that that money can be found from the research reserve, but that must depend on the negotiations that will take place in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113614	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113616	I also hope that the rapporteur, like him, has heard a clear signal that we can discuss it easily, but this is not how we should finance our proposal. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we are very, very much in agreement with the good substance of the proposal, but it is a pity to have to say that we cannot support it because of the financing model. But like I said, if we can find out something else, it's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113641	I've taken that with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113646	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113647	Thank you for the floor. Normally, trust in the public employees is a matter for the SF, and that is very sympathetic, which is why I need to hear about two things. The first is: Why does the SF not trust psychiatrists and will thus put psychiatrists under political administration? The second is: are there any other professional groups that the SF will also put under political administration and thus have no confidence in?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113713	I have to say that I think it is quite a strawman to say that I should not have confidence in psychiatrists, because I very much do. By the way, it's psychiatrists themselves who are asking for this knowledge. It is psychiatrists themselves who, in their practice, lack knowledge of the effects and side effects of the medicines they prescribe to children and adolescents. So I have a lot of faith in them. Children's and youth's psychiatrists are also some of those who cry out loudest that it is important in children's and youth's psychiatry that there is a broad palette of treatment options and that the effects and side effects of them are known.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113752	Well, I don't think I'm getting an answer to my question. There are, of course, professional differences in all subjects that can be thought of at all, because this is a very, very complicated field of research. Are there other fields of research in which the SF also considers it politically important that, on the political side, one is overjudged or interferes with professional discussions without having any kind of professional prerequisites for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113819	After all, I have some professional qualifications within the field, in that I am a trained psychologist and have worked with children and young people with mental disorders. So, yes, a little insight I have in it. But it is a question of principle, as the rapporteur asks, whether we should interfere. I think we have an obligation, because if we can listen to professionals in the environment, researchers and practitioners saying that there is a lack of knowledge in one area, then I also believe that we, as politicians, should try to provide that knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113851	With that, we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113915	The debate is open, and we start with Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504113929	Thank you for that, President. You can't beat your children no matter what, even if it's part of your upbringing. Fortunately, we have agreed on this here in the Danish Parliament, and it is now 21 years since physical punishment was banned. In the Social Democratic Party we agree that beating your children must have severe consequences and that cultural differences in that context are not an excuse. With this bill, we hit hard on families where violence is part of everyday life. No child should live with the fear of being beaten or experiencing siblings or parents being subjected to violence. It is therefore proposed to double the penalty for repeated simple violence when the violence has been committed by persons in or closely associated with the injured person's household. The current legislation makes a distinction between § 244 and § 245 when it comes to domestic violence, but with the bill there is no change in § 245. We agree with the Government that violence against children within the scope of section 244 on simple violence must be punished more severely than other matters covered by section 244. In this way, we believe that we are sending out a clear signal that we will not accept domestic violence, not only physical violence, but also psychological violence. There is simply a greater chance of a child exercising violence later in life if the child grows up with violence in everyday life. It is a vicious circle that we have a political responsibility to do something about. The draft law further proposes to postpone the limitation period in cases of repeated or serious violence against children when the violence has been committed by persons in or closely associated with the injured person's household. This means that the limitation period must only be counted from the date on which the injured person reaches the age of 21. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is a good thing, because the child must be given the opportunity to gain the recognition of the legal system when the child becomes independent and has sufficient resources and opportunities. Children must be children and tell a child that they are subjected to violence by their mother or father, the child must be assisted with the support and assistance needed. But we must also help those children who only later in life have the courage and resources to stand up and demand justice. That is why the Social Democrats can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504114139	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504114148	Thank you for that, President. It is, of course, in many ways a sensible and good legislative proposal that we are dealing with now, which contains a few elements. First of all, it is suggested that there is a change in section 244, where a new paragraph is added. 2, where one doubles the penalty if it is about violence against children that has occurred in close relationships. At the same time, if we look at the penalty that you will normally be sentenced to have committed this, i.e. from 3 months to 6 months, if this happens in these close relationships, and in many ways this is a really, really good step in the right direction. In the Danish People's Party, we do not believe that we are in the right direction in this area, in relation to how severe the punishment should be, if you do this, but it is absolutely a step in the right direction and we recognise all positive steps, everything that is going in the right direction. So I would like to commend the government for that. The second element of the proposal is to postpone the limitation period precisely if you have committed this crime, this violence, to children who are under 18 years of age and who are therefore in a more sensitive situation than everyone else. We think that is sensible. When the government recently put forward a draft law which looked more broadly at the limitation periods and, in particular, worked on limitation periods when it came to sexual violations against children, we were rather annoyed that this element had not been taken into account, why we also put forward a proposal which was similar to what the government has put forward here as an amendment which was intended to eliminate the limitation period altogether. I am well aware that this is not quite what is being proposed here, because we do not remove the limitation period, but we are doing something to ensure that people who have been subjected to something, at a later stage in their lives, when they have become aware of what they have been subjected to, to a greater extent than they have today, can have the opportunity to redress the system and allow justice to be done. We think this is a good thing and I am glad that the government has been inspired by the amendment we have tabled and has put forward this proposal. So I can inform you that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504114421	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. That brings us to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504114434	Thank you for the floor. This bill is part of the government's approach to parallel societies and an important step towards a Denmark without parallel societies. Overall, the proposal is about combating domestic violence more severely, as domestic violence can help to maintain children and, in particular, female spouses in oppressive family patterns, and violence can have far-reaching negative consequences for children and young people's development. Children who grow up with domestic violence are more prepared to commit violence later in life than other peers. That's what all the studies show. At the same time, it provides a bad starting point for completing an education and later becoming part of a working community. The government therefore wants to tighten up the penalties for domestic violence and, at the same time, we want to postpone the limitation period in cases of repeated or serious domestic violence against persons under the age of 18. We need to ensure more that a violent parent or spouse is held responsible for his or her actions. Hopefully, with this bill, we can help break the negative spiral that domestic violence always causes, and as a society we can make it even more clear that domestic violence is, of course, totally unacceptable. That is why, of course, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504114559	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on, and we've reached Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504114611	Thank you. Violence against children is disgusting and we as a society must take action to prevent and prevent it from occurring. However, as is the case in several of the hearings, it is surprising that this draft law on, among others. More severe penalties for violence against children come in the wake of the government's so-called ghetto games. Violence against children unfortunately exists in many kinds of families, regardless of skin color and religion. Let me remind you that in 1997 when Denmark finally abolished the right of rebuke, 18 years after neighbouring Sweden, it happened with the majority of one vote, and the current President of the Danish Parliament, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, in her constitutional speech in 1997 called this law, which abolished the right of rebuke, for "and I quote a monstrous socialist law which meant that it was the end of the parents' right to decide over their children and the right of parents to bring up their children." Well, luckily it was 21 years ago, and everyone has the right to be smarter. I mention this simply to say that violence against children is not alien to Danish culture, unfortunately. The proposal consists of two main elements: increasing the penalties for domestic violence and postponing limitation periods. In the Enhedslisten we do not believe that it solves any problems if you unconsciously turn up the penalties. If adults engage in violence against children, prevention and information are best combated, as the Children's Council and the Children's Council of Europe point out in their hearing response. So we say no to the punishment because it does not work and because it does not help the children who have been subjected to violence. Prevention, information and social action will work much better, and we would very much like to support this kind of action in the Enhedslisten. The second part of the proposal to postpone the limitation period is more mixed with that. On the one hand, it is easy to understand when Østre Landsret writes that the postponement can cause problems of proof when a trial is about matters that lie several years ago. Conversely, we agree with the government when it points out that it can be difficult for children who are victims of domestic violence to talk about violence and report it while it is going on. We have been impressed by the fact that, among other things: The Children's Council, the Children's Council, the Help Victims of Violence and the Judicial Policy Association support a postponement of the limitation period. We have come to the conclusion that we can support a postponement of the limitation period in cases of domestic violence against children, as proposed by the government. We will therefore propose a division of the bill and, if the division is implemented, will support the postponement of the limitation period but will vote against the penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504114851	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504114901	Thank you. Former rapporteurs have, of course, examined the draft law and what is involved in it, both the desire to tighten up the penalties and the intention to postpone the limitation period, and we in the Liberal Alliance think that this is a very, very good legislative proposal. It is no secret that we have been particularly concerned about the limitation period, and here I would like to sign up to the Danish People's Party for a super, super good cooperation. We have been in complete agreement on this agenda, and we may also agree that we should go further than what is being proposed here. But the direction is good, the direction is right and we are taking some steps, and I am quite sure that we will be working together on this agenda for a number of years to come. Because what you can see is a new trend. After all, we have started to talk much more about children's rights. This can be seen in this debate, both when it comes to sexual abuse, children's rights in relation to authorities that are failing them, and children's rights in relation to parents who are attacking them, and we can see it across resort areas. We can see it in social and child policy, where we have just changed the purpose clause of the parental responsibility law to rely solely on the child's best interests. We can also see it in the debate we are having at the moment on the genital mutilation of boys' children. We are starting to talk much more about children's rights, and I think that is very good. There is no doubt that many of the issues divide us. We are faced with new ethical dilemmas about when the state should go in and protect children from their parents and when, as parents, you have the right to raise your children and to what extent. However, it is exciting and good debates that we have, and even if there are differences and disagreements both within the individual parties and across the parties, I think it is very good that we are starting to discuss children's rights much more. So, with those comments, of course, we support this bill and we look forward to moving much further down this road.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504115105	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504115112	Thank you. First of all, for the sake of good order, I am standing here on behalf of our legal rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, who unfortunately cannot be here today. I would therefore like to read out this speech on her behalf: firstly, with this bill, the government proposes to sharpen the penalty for repeated cases of simple violence committed by a closely associated person or person associated with the injured person's household. This means that the penalty for such acts is set at prison up to 6 years, which corresponds to the current penalty for, among other things, the death penalty. mistreatment in Section 245 of the Criminal Code; 1. In addition, the level of penalties for this type of case is doubled. From now on, for example, it will have to be done. cost 6 months in prison for this type of case against 3 months in prison today. Secondly, the government proposes that the limitation period in cases of repeated or serious violence against persons under 18 years of age committed by a person in or closely associated with the injured person's household be postponed. It shall have the effect that the limitation period shall not be counted earlier than the date on which the injured person reaches the age of 21 when the offence is committed against a person under the age of 18. We are very positive about that part of the bill. Children who have been exposed to violence in close relationships may find it difficult to stand up with the abuse when they still have a close dependency relationship with the attacker. By counting the limitation period at the earliest from the day the injured person reaches the age of 21, we ensure that the child has achieved a certain age and clarity. Notification of abuses committed in childhood presupposes not only the achievement of a certain age and clarity, but also the fact that there has been a real abuse and what the consequences of these are. We believe it will strengthen children's legal certainty to postpone the limitation period in order to ensure the child's redress at a time when contact with the perpetrators is less or where the child has greater ties with others in which he has confidence. We therefore support that part of the bill. On the other hand, we are sceptical about the part of the draft law which deals with the penalty. Our criticism is, overall, twofold. Firstly, we have doubts about the proposed penal framework for prisons up to six years in what will become section 244 of the Criminal Code. 2. Our criticism is shared by several interested parties. Among other things: writes the National Association of Defence Attorneys in its hearing answer: "It seems difficult to spot cases of repeated violence under the proposed section 244, par. 2, which, without being covered by Article 245 of the Penal Code, would require a level of punishment which is not included in the current penal framework of Section 244, imprisonment up to 3 years, and in particular to require a six-year penalty. In other words, it is difficult to imagine a situation in which repeated or serious violence which is not considered to be abuse should not be covered by the current section 244 which provides for imprisonment up to 3 years. And even more difficult it will be to imagine a situation in which the repeated or gross violence will require a penalty of six years, without the act being regarded as abuse, which can already be punished under section 245 of the Criminal Code. I'm gonna go a little further here, 'cause I have a lot to read. The second part of our criticism is about how we, as a society, best combat violence in close relationships. There should be no doubt that, as a society, we must combat violence in close relations with all the sensible means we have, including punishment. But we also need to look a little more closely at the issue. Several child organizations write in the hearings that the punishment may not be the answer. For example: writes Children's Terms that it is the general view that reproof, among other things. is the content of the bill, best combated with information and prevention instead of punishment, so the ban on reproof is also written into the parental responsibility law. In another hearing, the Children's Council writes, among other things, that punishment is probably not the solution to social problems and that the children affected will be better served by social or health interventions that seek to solve problems than by having a father or a mother in prison. In the alternative, we share the call that we seek to help families with health and social interventions. We believe that we must make a massive effort with those efforts and with general social awareness of the consequences of violence on both the victim and the practitioner, and ensure a better level of authority and awareness of violence in close relationships. That is why we cannot support that part of the bill. In conclusion, I note that, like the Enhedslisten, we want the bill to be split up. We support the postponement of the limitation period, but we are against the penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504115639	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then we have reached Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504115649	Thank you. It is now 21 years since the right of reproof was abolished, and many of us may be living in an idea that violence in the home is not really happening in Denmark, and when it happens, it is in very vulnerable families. There is no doubt that it is in vulnerable families that violence most often occurs, but it is also a more widespread problem than we might want to believe. A study by the SFI a few years ago showed that one sixth of all children experience domestic violence while Children's Conditions conducted a study that showed that 9%. of Danish boys have experienced severe violence and that it was 19 per cent when it comes to boys with other ethnic backgrounds who have experienced severe violence while it is 21 per cent. of children in abuse families who have experienced violence. So these are really high figures, even though they are not the majority, and that is why we fully support the proposal. We agree with the comments that have been up here that this isn't the only means. When we look at what kind of families violence is, we can see that it is families with abuses, families with poor economies, families with other ethnic backgrounds, where you may have something from another culture, and it is especially children with diagnoses. That is why we also have the feeling that some of these families could be particularly involved and that punishment is not the only instrument. However, we also support the part of the proposal which deals with limitation periods, because this is, of course, something that some people only talk about openly when they have grown, and then, of course, we must also have the opportunity to prosecute those parents who have exposed their children to repeated violence. And when violence is so serious, it is not only because it leaves scars and bruises, bruises, bruises, or whatever it may be, it is also because it is basically a breach of two very important principles that we salute in connection with child rearing in Denmark. Although child rearing is, of course, a family matter, there are some values that we as a society should promote, and that is security and freedom. Children have a right to be safe in their close relationships, and we know that is something that the violence is straining. Children who are victims of violence have less faith that their parents will also help them if they need help. With regard to freedom, children who are subjected to violence are less likely to say what they mean in their family, and therefore have less freedom to say what they think, but also less freedom in general, because they cannot then come forward with desires to their wishes and everyday life. Therefore, violence is a major problem, not only as long as the bruises are there, it is simply a problem because it creates children who do not experience security and freedom, and it is something that scars the soul and marks the adult people who ultimately come out of this type of relationship. That is why it is a very serious problem and we support the proposal, which is the legal approach to it, but we also think it deserves a greater social policy effort, especially as it is a problem which is so wide-ranging but which, as we can see, also affects some family groups more than others, and we should therefore be able to devote a great deal of attention to it. That is also the only appeal I have to make to the proposal, namely that it is mentioned in the context of the government's ghetto strategy. It is true that in families with other ethnic backgrounds there is an increased tendency for violence to take place, but it is also a problem that we have in Danish families, because in abuse families it is 20%. of the children who are subjected to violence. Therefore, we cannot just isolate it here to a problem that applies in immigrant families with dark-haired children, it is a general problem that also affects blonde children with ethnic Danish parents, and therefore it requires a broad effort and not just a narrow effort in relation to minority families.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120116	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120124	It is of course an interesting detail in the debate that the Danish People's Party, which is the party that was violently opposed to it when we introduced a ban on reproof in the family, is now very excited about a proposal because it is probably being put into a context where they can see themselves more easily because it is now being launched as an initiative against parallel societies. That's how the world is so funny sometimes. What should be the safe environment for the family is for some children and women instead of a place full of insecurity, fear and violence. As the Children's Council and Children's Conditions write in the hearing answers, we must take action with prevention and information. The SF fully agrees with that. We need to be much better at seeing the world from the point of view of the victims. It is a task for society to take better care of people who have a weak position in power hierarchies and also in family hierarchies. Violence is everyday for too many people. SF supports postponing the limitation period, as it is obviously difficult for children to report violence by parents or older siblings. Violence is disgusting, regardless of its context. But many years of abuse within the family not only sets themselves as physical tracks, but also often leaves deep marks in the psyche. Many struggle with the aftereffects for the rest of their lives. Prevention and information are important, and this can well be supplemented by stricter penalties. The SF supports a tougher penal framework, which will be a clear signal for society to those families where violence is part of everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120338	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120347	We need to put an end to parallel societies. Unfortunately, there are some parts of Denmark where apparently the same rules do not apply as in the rest of the country. There are areas where crime rates are high and employment rates are low; these are areas where you do not speak Danish and where freedom and democracy and equality are not a matter of course. Parallel societies are one of Denmark's biggest economic and social challenges. We have to do something about that now. That's why the government in March presented the play-out of Denmark without parallel The initiative addresses many policy areas where action is needed. There are a number of social and preventive measures, and there are a number of restrictions on legal and economic sanctions. We need both soft and tough measures, but above all we need to be ambitious. The Ghetto won't go away. Today we are discussing a bill which deals with the legal consequences of breaking the law. Violence against children gives scars for life, violence against one's family we cannot accept. This is one of the problems we unfortunately see in parallel societies. Therefore, one of the government's proposed measures is that we increase the penalty for repeated, simple violence in close relationships. There has to be a consequence if you think it's okay to beat your wife or kids. At the same time, we are postponing the limitation period so that people who have been subjected to violence as children now have better opportunities to get the case before the courts later in life. Often we see children crowding out the terrible experiences that they have had in a violent home into adulthood. The Conservative People's Party wants all children to be safe, even if they live in a socially exposed residential area. Domestic violence is unacceptable and must lead to more severe punishment. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120610	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader, and we have actually reached the point where the Minister of Justice must come to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120621	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. The government wants a coherent Denmark, a Denmark based on democratic values such as freedom, legal certainty, equality, freeness of speech, tolerance and equality, and therefore the government launched on 1 March 2018 played out •One Denmark without parallel society • No ghettos in 2030 • No ghettos. One of the initiatives of the game is a harder course against domestic violence. Domestic violence can have far-reaching negative consequences for children and young people's development, and at the same time it can help to maintain, for example, the environment. children or spouses in oppressive family patterns. Children who have grown up with domestic violence are also more willing than others to commit violence later in life. And that is why we must take a hard stand against domestic violence. The bill proposes to double the penalty for repeated, simple violence when the violence is committed by persons in or closely associated with the victim's household. A doubling means that the penalty will be increased from 3 to 6 years in prison. At the same time, it is proposed that the level of penalties should also be doubled compared to today. As mentioned above, this provision shall include repeated violence committed by persons in or closely associated with the victim's household. For example, it will. could be parents, stepparents, foster parents or siblings, but also persons who do not live with the victim but regularly come to his or her home, for example. an uncle involved in raising the children. It is also proposed that the limitation period in cases of repeated or serious violence against children be postponed when the violence has been committed by a person in or closely associated with the victim's household. With the proposal, the limitation period will not start to run until the child reaches the age of 21. This means that if a father exposes a 10-year-old child to severe violence, where the limitation period is 10 years, the limitation period will not run until the child reaches the age of 21. Thus, the limitation period will not, as it is today, occur when the child is 20 years old, but only when the child reaches the age of 31. The removal of the limitation period will include serious violence and particularly serious violence, as well as repeated simple domestic violence. Social control, honour-related conflicts and violence are totally unacceptable. We, as a society, must make that clear. We must ensure that the perpetrators are held accountable for their actions, and that is why the government wants to take tough action against domestic violence. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120857	They're coming right here. The first is sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120901	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. My question is whether the Minister for Justice will think that a slightly wider overflight should be made on limitation periods. It is, of course, a matter of principle that many people have strong views on at least some strong positions among the parties. So maybe it was an idea that we sat down and looked beyond the limitation periods we have in the penal code, and then look at whether there is any of what we need to adjust, so you do something more together instead of adjusting a few of them, as we have done. It's just a call to the Minister of Justice that we get the Minister's comments on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504120945	I agree that this can make sense. We have abolished the limitation periods on one point and now we are doing something here on another point. It might be very good to have that general discussion. And I am quite sure that the questioner does not think it should delay this bill, but that we should have a broader discussion. I think that makes a great deal of sense, because there is also a toast to weigh on in this context; that is what I think is relevant, and it is such a slightly bigger job.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121013	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121016	I think the government we have now is basically always talking about what is so populist and saying: more punishment, then we take care of things. Does the Minister agree that when violent people who are often punished go to jail, they become more raw and sometimes more violent by being there, and that they do not get much out of it when you do not have the other and perhaps the most important thing, namely that you try to deal with the families where there is violence, and that perhaps that is where we fail everything, too much in the municipalities and around, so that we just say that we punish them, so that it is almost such a revenge on the part of society? Could we not get a little bit more social policy action from this government, so there is a little balance in things?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121105	We have not, of course, put the social effort out of hand, so the rules that apply today will also apply tomorrow, and after this bill has been adopted, in relation to what it is that the municipalities actually have in these relations. Because I quite agree that this also requires that you take care of this socially, that is to say, if you discover that something is happening at home, you have to get in there and make an effort. There can be no two opinions about that in my world. But that need not mean that we should not be severely punished and punished, because there are therefore some environments where we see more than elsewhere that some use violence as a tool, and I do not think we should look at that. But one doesn't rule out the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121142	I understand, sir. Christian Juhl wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121146	I just had to hear the Minister's reply, i.e. whether it was adequate before I wanted to ask again. My wife has worked with vulnerable families for a lifetime, and she always took the bike out there if the husband was lazy or violent, and then she scolded and said, "And by the way, we're gonna have to put some system into this, and you're gonna have to go to work. And I guess she's had a higher success rate than the prisons have, compared to those who went to jail. That's why I'm asking. And yes, tomorrow is the social effort, just as it is today, and that is the problem, because it is not enough, it is actually very inadequate. My second question is: can we divide this bill so that we can vote in favour of what we think is sensible and that what is not so sensible can we not vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121237	As far as I am concerned, this is quite a matter of principle, and I think it would be wrong to separate it, because I think it is simply a matter of doing something about limitation periods and seeing it in the context of a broader effort which also has consequences and which means an increased penalty. So it will certainly not be my approach that that is what we had to do. Having said that, I also believe that there is a lot of good social work going on, as Mr. Christian Juhl also mentioned this, but it has to continue. Well, we can all just hope this law never comes true. It's just great, because then there's an effort that works. This is something we put in place when there are some people who cannot behave properly and, of course, we must continue to do so. However, if we are to say this, we must not look at the fact that there are people who use violence very violently, violence at all, against their children, and we simply have to deal with it, including with punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121333	I think the Minister for Justice was on the verge of what can be said to be regrettable, but at least no more have asked for the floor, and that is the end of the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121355	We are opening the negotiations, and we are opening the negotiations with Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121410	Thank you for that, President. The bill here contains a postponement of the revision of the regulations of the Public Service Act on mailing lists for the next parliamentary year. As a result of the review of Article 16 of the Public Procurement Act on mailing lists, an experimental scheme was introduced from January 2015 to the end of 2016. The pilot scheme included the Ministry of Health and the Elders, the Danish Maritime Authority, the Region of Southern Denmark and the Municipality of Slagelse. The pilot scheme was completed with an evaluation which was completed last year. As you know, the evaluation report does not provide a concrete answer as to whether the mailing lists should be made permanent or whether they should be disseminated to other institutions. On the other hand, the report contains a number of models on how to make them permanent and how to disseminate them. It is the assessment that the mailing lists can be included in the ongoing negotiations on a new public law, and therefore here a proposal to postpone the revision of the mailing lists. As you know, the Social Democratic Party is involved in the negotiations on a new public law, and we can therefore also support the postponement of the revision of the mailing lists and their inclusion in the current negotiations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121510	Thank you, sir. Kaare Dybvad. Then it's just sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121522	Thank you. With the proposal here, the government proposes to postpone the revision of the pilot scheme that has been running to post lists in the Ministry of Health and the Elders, the Maritime Authority, the Region of Southern Denmark and the municipality of Slagelse until the next parliamentary year. It is, in fact, as far as I remember, from the time I went through the case, the second time in this period that we are dealing with a case like this. We have had a postponement in the past, because we wanted to make this change, while at the same time revising the Public Service Act, which has puzzled us a little. Just as positive as I was with the previous bill, as strange as I actually think this is, for I know you don't have to postpone it here just because you're awaiting a public law that you want to change. It has taken, it has to be said, a very, very long time for those parties that are part of the negotiations to find some agreement. I know that the Danish People's Party is not part of the agreement that has been made on the Public Service Act. My acquaintance still hasn't settled a deal. I would say that I am actually concerned that we will continue to put this off indefinitely, because we will continue to point out that there will be a review of the public law at some point. We will go to the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and look into this further, but I would like to make a plea today to those parties which are part of the conciliation on the Public Service Act and the agreement that exists and ask them to ensure that we can have a decision in this area soon. It is quite important that we open up some of the things that were tightened up last time that legislation was made. I hope, of course, that those parties which have declared themselves to be a troika of openness will fight for this. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121722	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121725	I agree with the rapporteur on this point, and I would like to ask: does this mean that the Danish People's Party is voting against this postponement of doing something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121735-2	That's a good question, sir. Christian Juhl asks, and I feel that we are going to take a walk in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and look at it and ask some questions. In fact, when I read the answers to the hearings, I think there are a few good things between which it is pointed out that it is quite easy to find a decision on this without waiting for the work that is in progress so that we can actually just implement it. But we look at it once, we give it an overflight in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121806	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121808	But it is not enough just to look at it; we also have to act. Well, this government is in many questions born in the wheelbarrow's sign. They must both be lifted and pushed forward, and we have to do so from time to time, for example. to say: Hey, we don't want any more postponements of the things that need to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121824-2	It was new with the wheelbarrow's sign. I'll have to remember that one, sir. Christian Juhl for. I quite agree with the questioner as far as the Public Access Act is concerned, because I think it is also a mishmash that has been made, and I do not think there are very many people who can benefit from it. We have been opposed to the changes made in the Public Service Act last time, and moreover agreed with the Enhedslisten the times this has been on the wallpaper in the Parliamentary Chamber. And that's also why I don't have my arms up my head when I comment on this bill, because I think it would be better, in fact, to find clarification on this by the government and to have an agreement on the Public Service Act that could at least be served by more than the current one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121904	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504121912	Thank you for the floor. I have been allowed to take today's proposal on behalf of our public rapporteur, Jan E. Jørgensen, and as has also been mentioned earlier, the purpose of this bill is to postpone the revision of section 16 of the Public Access Act on mailing lists until the parliamentary year 2018-19. For the Left, it is quite simply a question of how we approach the process most appropriately. Negotiations are currently under way on a new agreement on the Public Procurement Act, and the Ministry of Justice considers that political considerations on mailing lists should be included in the political discussions on a new agreement. However, discussions on the Public Procurement Act will not be concluded in sufficient time to enable legislative proposals to be made in this session. That is why we in the Left think it is most appropriate to postpone the revision of Article 16 of the Public Service Act on mailing lists to the next parliamentary year, which is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122015	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Well, we've actually reached sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122031	I was just thinking about a question for the Left, but there I was too late. Denmark has a public law that is more restrictive than similar legislation in many of the countries with which we usually compare ourselves. The Public Act, adopted in 2013, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, has been subject to massive criticism over the past few years, including from the three parties that helped to reach a settlement on the bill, which shut down access to important documents and reduced the public's ability to look at officials and politicians over the shoulders. It is sad that the dissatisfaction with the law in force, even in this assembly of parliaments, does not seem to lead to a change in some of the obvious inequities of the Public Service Act. According to the legislative notes to the bill we are discussing today, the Government has at the earliest in the next parliamentary assembly the ambition to change the public law, and this low level of ambition is only good for those who want to maintain a restrictive public law, in other words the Social Democrats and the Left, which together form a minority in the Folketing. For as long as negotiations are under way, the so-called ministerial service rule and the other provisions which prevent the public from having access to important information continue to apply. Having said that, there is no real reason why Article 16 of the law on mailing lists cannot be revised separately from the revision of the strongly criticised provisions in particular. So even if you accept the government's premise that the most qualified provision of the law can be changed at the earliest in the next assembly, there would be nothing to prevent a revision of the postal list provision here and now. As can be seen from the comments to the bill, the mailing list committee issued its report and evaluation of the mailing list trial in July 2017 • July 2017, that was 10 months ago. On the basis of this, Enhedslisten cannot support the bill to postpone the revision of section 16 of the Public Procurement Act on mailing lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122240	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. On my list, it is now Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122254	This bill postpones the revision of the mailing lists as part of the Public Service Act. As several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is the case that we are still debating at the moment an overall review of various provisions of the Public Service Act, and therefore it makes very good sense to take it as a whole part of the negotiations that are taking place. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the postponement of the part relating to mailing lists. And I should greet our friends in the Conservative People's Party and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122335	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund and welcome to Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122347	Thank you. Once again, I am standing here on behalf of our legal rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, who unfortunately could not participate today. Authorities covered by the mailing list system shall draw up a list of documents received from or dispatched by the authority on that day. The mailing list must be published on the Authority's website so that citizens and the press can gain more insight into the administration. As several of my colleagues have noted, with this bill, the government wants to postpone the statutory revision of the scheme from the current parliamentary assembly to the 2018-19 collection. The government justifies the postponement by the fact that the evaluation of the mailing list experiment should be included in the general discussions of the Public Procurement Act, which is currently taking place in the conciliation circle, which is behind the Public Procurement Act. First of all, I would like to comment on the link made by the Minister and the Ministry in the revision of the mailing list experiment and the more general discussions on the Public Access Act. As mentioned in some of the previous rapporteur's speeches, there is already an evaluation of the mailing list experiment. The evaluation was carried out last year and a committee of experts issued a report with recommendations in July 2017. So the Ministry has had the evaluation and the report for more than nine months without taking any concrete action, and now we want to postpone the review. We don't think that's good enough. We have no objection to merging evaluations where it makes sense, but in this case, in our view, there are two different evaluations. The mailing list system is a low-hanging fruit which we should be able to agree on without major problems. The situation is different with regard to the Public Service Act. Here there are some provisions that we consider seriously in the alternative, together with other parties. It is therefore neither natural nor obvious to merge these two separate processes. The mailing lists should have been mandatory from the outset in our optics. Transparency is an important principle for the alternative, especially when it comes to public insight into the work of the administration, and here we think that the mailing lists include: helps to ensure greater transparency. Hopefully, this will help to increase public and press insight into the work of the administration, and that is why we need to spread it out. As can also be seen from the Danish Media's hearing answer, a permanent system of mailing lists will benefit citizens and the press's insight into the work of the administration, and this is likely to benefit the authorities involved as well. Danish media writes that the authorities will be able to make savings:... in the form of improved quality of journaling as well as improved and faster processing of access requests, which will often be easier to handle as mailing lists facilitate the work of identifying the requested documents. • You also write: •... a further postponement of the revision deadline is a flagrant violation of the whole intention of inserting an explicit and separate revision period for the mailing lists, which was precisely to ensure a rapid evaluation of the mailing list attempt and political opinion on the future mailing list system. The alternative would therefore like to call on the other parties of the Danish Parliament to press for the establishment of a permanent mailing list system. With those comments, we cannot support the postponement of the revision of the mailing list attempt. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122733	You're welcome. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. I can say to the audience that it is not forbidden to ask from the Chamber. There are just no questions, and that is why we move on to the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122745	I was about to say that it is because we are so that we have thought about how we should behave here. We're part of the conciliation circle. It is no secret that we have had a little cold feet, very cold feet, compared with some of the amendments made by the Public Service Act, and that is why we are negotiating a new public law, or at least some amendments. That is why we can live with the fact that this experimental system will be part of the negotiations, although of course I can understand the argument that we could move in this area without waiting for the great Salomonic solution to the general public law. Because I don't think it's a secret that it's also a really difficult task. However, we agree to postpone this area in order to see it in the context of the whole review of the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122855	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Welcome to sir. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122902	SF participates in the current negotiations on a new Public Procurement Act. The Minister of Justice believes that the mailing list attempt should be included in those negotiations. But it is also clear that we cannot just continue to postpone the matter, and I understand very well the critical consultation responses from the Danish Media and the Danish Journalist Federation. Despite our mutual impatience, the SF still chooses to meet the Minister. It seems a pragmatic solution to discuss the mailing list attempt in the context of the other amendment of the Public Service Act, and that is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122944	Thank you very much, sir. Karsten Hønge. We're going to the Attorney General. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504122955	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the most positive speeches on the legislative proposal that we have heard today. After all, the aim is to postpone the revision of the Public Service Act's provisions on mailing lists from the parliamentary year 2017-18 until the parliamentary year 2018-19. An open mailing list experiment has been carried out in selected authorities in the years 2015 and 2016. The mailing list trial was evaluated in 2017 and the mailing list committee made a report in July 2017. The Posting List Committee does not decide whether a permanent system of open mailing lists should be established. The Committee, on the other hand, draws up different models of how a possible system can be set up if it is politically decided to introduce such a system. As you know, political negotiations are currently taking place on a new agreement on the entire Public Service Act, and we have considered that the political considerations on mailing lists should be included in the political discussions that are currently under way. It is clear that the discussions that are under way are now taking place and, depending on their outcome, it is now the case that we will not be able to table legislative proposals in this session on a possible new agreement on the Public Service Act. With those comments, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches, and I look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504123121	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The negotiations have therefore been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504123141	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504123158	Thank you for that, President. I would like to say that at last this matter lies on the table of the Danish Parliament's law on the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of disability. In 2009, Denmark acceded without reservation to the UN Disability Convention and in 2014 acceded to the Voluntary Additional Protocol, which provides for the possibility of bringing complaints about decisions to the UN Disability Committee. This bill introduces a ban on discrimination on grounds of disability. In this way, disabled people are treated in the same way as other groups with equal protection outside the labour market on grounds of sex, race and ethnic origin. Infringements may be brought before the Equal Treatment Board. Overall, we can support the bill. The bill here is a step in the right direction. It doesn't solve everything, but it takes us one step closer. There is still a need for development and progress in this area, because we are not yet in the end. People with disabilities are still experiencing discrimination, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party welcome the initiative of the government. We have also noted that a large number of players would like us to have taken the step further and introduced requirements for both accessibility and fair adaptation. We fully understand that wish. It should be obvious that we cannot reconstruct the whole of society, but we should set requirements that promote the process of anti-discrimination. The rules on anti-discrimination must be used to ensure that we, as a society, will counteract exclusion. It must make us all aware of helping to process the excluded elements, whether they be prejudices or the improvement of the physical environment. My claim is that a great many of the situations experienced excluding a person with disability arise as a result of a lack of imagination about how our devices work for disabled people. It is most often lack of knowledge and not malicious will that is behind discrimination. Overall, the draft law is a step in the right direction, and on that basis we can vote in favour of the legislative proposal. The Social Democratic Party welcomes the fact that we can now comply with the Convention which provides protection against discrimination against people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504123445	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments. So we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504123455	Thank you. In Danish law there is legislation prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of disability in the labour market, but we do not have legislation that outside the labour market contains a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities. Finally, however, there is a ban on discrimination against people with disabilities. In the Danish People's Party we have long been working for a ban so that it should no longer be allowed to discriminate against people with disabilities. We will finally have that, and it has been a long time in the process. In the Danish People's Party, in 2016, we called the Minister for a question debate with the wording: Will the Minister explain what it takes to introduce a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities, including whether the government will introduce access to complaints about discrimination due to disability being dealt with by the Equal Treatment Board? • The whole Parliament agreed on a proposal for adoption. It says, among other things, that it is the clear intention of the Folketing that people with disabilities should be protected from discrimination also outside the labour market, that the draft law should provide for the right of appeal to the Equal Opportunities Board and that the Folketing also notes that rules on accessibility relating to new construction must be respected. In relation to the availability of new construction, we in the Danish People's Party believe that the law really needs to be followed up. In relation to that bill, the Danish People's Party would have liked us to also have a fair adaptation, which for me is about using its common sense. It is also a great wish of several in the Folketing, I think, as is a great wish of the organisations. Experience with the prohibition of discrimination in the labour market shows, in the view of many, that a demand for fair adjustment has had no significant negative effect, even of an economic nature. Unfortunately, it has not been possible for the Ministry of Finance to calculate the financial consequences of this, in addition to having received a reply that it is the opinion of the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance that extending the bill with a provision on the right to fair adjustment of public services would entail unpredictable socio-economic costs for both public institutions and private companies. The ministries also state that, if proper adaptation were to be included in the draft law, the public expenditure resulting from the adjustment would have to be financed. However, the burden on the economy cannot be calculated in advance, as it will be a ban that spans all parts of the public sector, coupled with the need for fair adaptation being individual-based. Of course, it is problematic that we have not been able to get a more concrete response from the ministries, and it is very difficult to legislate on the basis of such unconceived predictions. So my call is quite clear: the ministries have to dig deeper. That is why we also want the government towards the next assembly of parliaments to examine how reasonable individual adaptation could possibly be incorporated into a law prohibiting discrimination because of disability. The Danish People's Party considers it important to adopt legislation in this area and does not believe that we should take the bill as a hostage in any economic calculations. We'll have to take that part somewhere else. The result of the calculations believes we should be reported by the end of September 2018. A possible legislative proposal can then take account of the economic consequences. This bill here contains the principle of shared burden of proof, which, for example, has been implemented in the Equal Opportunities Act and the Equal Treatment Act and is now also included in this bill. In the Danish People's Party we are incredibly pleased that we have put people with disabilities on the agenda several times during this parliamentary term, and we, together with this government, have also adopted several good things in the field of disability, including several of the Danish People's Party's resolutions. We have among other things. amended the electoral law, secured better facilities in polling rooms, ensured that one can choose one's helper in the voting box. We have ensured that blind and partially sighted people are included in individual driving arrangements and have the right to a minimum of 104 trips. We have secured the legislation on suspensive effect, called the early warning system, within certain clauses of the Services Act, so that you are not suddenly left without your help. We have set aside funds for an action plan in the field of disability precisely to improve the quality of the case and increase citizens' legal certainty. We have taken several measures for the benefit of people with disabilities. I'm incredibly happy about that. These are all very good measures and very good improvements for people with disabilities. That is why I should like today to welcome the fact that we have finally succeeded in obtaining legislation on the prohibition of discrimination. It is, of course, a proposal that we support in the Danish People's Party, and we also look forward to the committee's reading, where we will of course also have a number of questions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504124022	You're welcome. Welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504124034	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. I should like to begin by saying that I am giving the speech here on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. We in the Left are delighted that with this bill we are on our way to getting a definite ban on discrimination against people with disabilities. The first reading today marks a major step. We simply cannot accept that people with disabilities are discriminated against, and that must also be made clear in our legislation. This bill bans both direct and indirect discrimination on the grounds of disability and allows us to complain to the Equal Treatment Board if the ban is violated. This ensures disabled people in Denmark in a completely new way. The proposal gives people with disabilities greater legal certainty and, in fact, there is a great need for this, because unfortunately we have seen some unfair cases in which people with disabilities are treated differently and unfairly compared with others. That is why we must continue to ensure the rights of people with disabilities, and this is what we are doing with this bill. In the Left we are therefore also very pleased that we can create broad support in the Folketing for the bill. I have also promised to salute the Conservatives and say that they, like the Left, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504124203	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and welcome to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504124222	Thank you. This is a long-awaited bill that we are discussing here today. It has been very many years since the Danish Parliament adopted a ban on discrimination on grounds of disability in the labour market, and ever since, and especially in recent years, very strong pressure has been exerted to obtain the general ban that we are discussing here. The introduction of a general ban on discrimination is, in fact, a clear obligation for us. We have joined the UN Disability Convention just under 10 years ago, and we have been the only country in Scandinavia, for too long, which does not have a general ban on discrimination on grounds of disability. So, first of all, it is a very good proposal that is now there and we welcome that in the Enhedslisten. Having said that, I also have to say that we are basically not very happy with the government's legislative proposals. We think it is designed in such a way that it does not provide, perhaps even not at all, sufficient grounds for enforcing in practice a prohibition of discrimination, and we can see that this is not just a view that we have reached in our wisdom in the Enhedslisten, but that it is a view that is repeated, but not by everyone. I can see that the Danish Employers' Association welcomes the proposal and that Danish Occupation welcomes the proposal, but when we look widely over the disability organisations, the Institute for Human Rights and many more, we can see that there is quite a considerable criticism of the proposal. It is the case that the government has chosen not to include a provision on fair adaptation in the draft law. It is otherwise an explicit obligation under the UN Disability Convention. It is otherwise widely quoted across the legislative notes, but precisely this one is not much of a focus in the legislative notes, and in our opinion it is a problem that fair adaptation is not included, because it risks leaving quite a lot of citizens without real equality. That is why the requirement for employers to make reasonable adjustments is included in the law on discrimination, that is to say the legislation applicable to the labour market, and we simply cannot understand that what is applicable to our companies should not also apply in general. I believe that some of the consultation answers put it this way that it is still strange that we will impose an obligation on private employers to adapt properly when the municipal school or day-care institution or the municipal-run library does not have to meet the same requirements. So that's one problem. We, the disability rapporteurs and the Minister between us, have discussed the matter in depth at a number of meetings, and I think that there has been a great deal of willingness on the part of the parties to give the Minister the benefit of the doubt, namely that this could be associated with very high costs. We have had difficulty in seeing it, because it has not been documented in the labour market field, and that is why we and other parties have asked whether we could then get the fair adaptation into the legislation in an isolated area. We have pointed out the same thing as what the Institute for Human Rights points out in their hearing answer, namely that we must then take the whole area of education and say that there is provision for fair adaptation, and then we can draw some lessons from this, in other words, in relation to whether it is true, as the Minister has advocated, that this is very costful, or whether the view which Enhedslisten and others have advocated, namely that, from experience in the labour market, there is no indication that there is a very high level of expenditure, is correct. I think it is really a pity that we have not been able to meet in this matter so that, when we were unable to bring about fair adaptation fully and completely, we could not do so in a limited area and then draw some concrete lessons from it. Another problem is that the legislative proposal also exempts the whole issue of accessibility, and it has to be said that precisely the issue of accessibility is a very big barrier for a number of citizens. This is well described by consultation responses from, for example. Danish Handicap Federation, which describes the problem for a large group of physically disabled people. I think it is the Danish Deaf's National Federation, or the Danish Blind Society, which makes it very clear in their hearing response what barriers it offers when accessibility is not included in the bill. Finally, I think it is a problem that the legislative proposal not only indirectly but also directly opens the way for discrimination to be legal if it has a legitimate purpose. We have also discussed this at several meetings, and I simply do not think we have been given a reasonable reason why discrimination can be lawful if it has a legal purpose. A single example has been given in the legislative notes, but I simply do not think it is going to hold up. So I would say that I find it very problematic that we have not included the three elements. It is, of course, the case that the Enhedslisten supports this proposal, because it is, in principle, important for us that it is introduced, but I very much hope that we can get the issues I have mentioned up in committee and hopefully get some of it in before we adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504124831	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments, so I welcome Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504124838	Thank you for that, President. The proposal here will ensure that the ban on discrimination against people with disabilities also applies outside the labour market. This means that the protection of people with disabilities will apply in line with the protection of gender, racial and ethnic origin. I think that it is logical and that it is relatively unproblematic that, of course, disabled people should have the same status as the other groups mentioned. One can argue that disabled people are in many ways more vulnerable, and I therefore think that this is a very good step, and the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504124912	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. I am sorry, although Mrs Marianne Jelved is one of the biggest politicians we have, that we have to take them in order, and that means that Mr. Torsten Gejl of the Alternative has the right to come first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504124930	Thank you so much. It is incredibly important to protect people with disabilities from discrimination, and that is why we in the Alternative are very happy to vote in favour of this proposal today, and we are very pleased that we are moving a little in this area. The content acts among other things. on giving people with disabilities access to equal treatment and that people who are being violated can receive compensation, but we also believe that we need to move forward in the work, and we agree with the Danish Handicap Federation, Danske Handicap Organisations, the Central Disability Council and the LEV that the proposal has serious shortcomings in terms of fair adaptation and accessibility, which we must, of course, live up to in relation to the Disability Convention. So we still have plenty of work ahead of us to ensure that our citizens with disabilities can slip into society in a simple and natural and dignified way without having to meet with obstacles that make many of the opportunities we others enjoy almost still inaccessible to people with disabilities. So we support the proposal, but we look forward to the work of better meeting the disability convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504125048	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and warm welcome to Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504125056	Thank you, sir. President. The Radical Left has been arguing for a long time that we should have legislation in this area, and so I would like to sign with the Minister that we will have the bill now. It's really nice, and in many ways it's a really good bill. So that praise is to be given to the Minister. After all, we already have another legislation which prohibits discrimination and discrimination against people because of their disability, namely legislation relating to the labour market. Now we have a law which contains a general provision that there should be no discrimination against people with disabilities in Danish society. It's a good grip, and it sounds really good. Then we just lack the question of accessibility and what is called fair adaptation. We have to ask a number of questions to the Minister during the debate here, but I find it very difficult to understand many things, and I will just mention a few of them. If you say that accessibility must include new buildings and works, then that is something that can be incorporated, and then it is not an extra cost, you might say. Then it is a natural thing that has already been in force. I do not know if I am fully up to date here, but some time ago, at least, our Minister for Housing had a proposal that we should not always make accessibility for new buildings. But the Minister may be able to answer that later. Then there's the thing about fair adjustment. I find it very difficult to understand that this should have financial consequences, also because a paper has been produced by the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs from 22 August 2017, stating that it follows from the Disability Convention that public authorities must, and I quote, ensure that fair adaptation is provided if it does not impose a disproportionate or unnecessary burden on the Authority. Quote out. I also think that is quite reasonable and it is true that fair adjustment is actually a very individual act. It is not an act that affects large groups, because it is dependent on the individual situation of the individual with a disability and I am just mentioning a few examples of what I think very many of us know. A boy in kindergarten gets the diagnosis of diabetes. That means he needs medicine while he's in kindergarten, and then his parents are told that he can't be in that kindergarten anymore. This is the kind of thing that I think we all think is totally unreasonable. And what kind of economic consequence would it have for the boy to stay in kindergarten? Yes, there was to be a leader and a couple of educators who learned how to give it medicine, and the municipality's health care staff could easily come and teach them that. That would not be something that would cost a fortune and then it would have been done once and for all, but it is not something that would have financial consequences anywhere else. Then there's the blind man with a guide dog who wants to go to a restaurant. Then he cannot be allowed to do so, even if a reasonable adjustment would be that they said: Okay, you are in a special situation; we find out how to put you here in a corner of the restaurant; there it goes enough that you are sitting with your dog. Nor is it something that has economic consequences anywhere. Then there is an example which I heard at a conference on these problems and which I find very difficult to forget. It was a mother who was relatively severely disabled and was in a wheelchair. Of course, she wanted to attend the parents' meeting that the son's class parents had to hold. So she shows up at the school in her wheelchair and gets to know that the meeting is on the first floor, and the mother has to take her own and this is actually an authentic story, pulling herself up through railing and stairs to the first floor and having her wheelchair pulled along. It is absolutely unbelievable and impossible to understand that it must have happened in Denmark. What would a reasonable adjustment be here? It would be that the parent meeting was held in the living room and not on the first floor. Nor does it cost any money, and it has no consequences anywhere else. Because it is an individual situation that is conducive to what we call fair adaptation. That is why I would just like to say to the Minister in all silence that we need to discuss this in the course of the debate on the legislative proposal. It can happen in many ways. This can be done by questions, and this can be done by asking the Minister to come to a closed consultation in committee or otherwise, but we have to reverse this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504125537	Thank you very much to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504125546	Thank you, President. I think I can be brief because, of course, the SF, like the previous rapporteurs, supports the proposal to ban discrimination. It is really time that Denmark followed up our ratification of the Disability Convention, so that people with disabilities have effective protection against discrimination in the labour market as well as outside the labour market. All the more strange it is that the government does not address the problems of accessibility in the present proposal to a greater extent, but of course it is escaping with the softening of the requirement of accessibility, which the Minister of Housing has just introduced into the requirements of new construction, that is, the relaxation of requirements. However, if we are to have an open society characterised by diversity and easy access for all citizens, the accessibility requirements must not be softened, they must be tightened up. The same goes, of course, as others have already said, in relation to fair adjustment, and I would like to join the rapporteurs who have proposed that this should be discussed further in committee. Indeed, we would also suggest that we should perhaps even consider in the forthcoming committee the tabling of a genuine amendment which, as proposed by the Institute for Human Rights, ensures that the draft law includes requirements for accessibility with the restriction that there is only discrimination in breach of existing accessibility requirements. However, as other rapporteurs have already said, we are also prepared to discuss it in the further committee so that we can find solutions, because it should be possible to find solutions to the final challenges so that we can finally support the disability convention for all citizens with disabilities in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504125745	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. And before I welcome the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, I can inform you that throughout the summer Parliament's second round of accessibility activities will be started, so that there will be plenty of craftsmen in here, so that people in a wheelchair can get around here when they are elected to be in the Folketing. Welcome to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504125806	Thank you very much, President. And thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for some very good rapporteur speeches and also for the fact that the draft law banning discrimination on grounds of disability has been received so well. In particular, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Danish People's Party and also to the rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, who has repeatedly fought for this particular proposal, and who, in February last year too, was given a boost in the process. I think we have had a very good working relationship along the way. I think we have actually had this with the rapporteurs in general in the series of meetings we have had, and I think we have together found a viable way. Now we are taking the step towards a general ban on discrimination on grounds of disability. It is a quantum leap in Danish disability policy that we make it quite clear that in a modern society we will not accept that people with disabilities are discriminated against. For it is deeply offensive to experience discrimination. It is both embarrassing and degrading for the people concerned who feel treated as second-class citizens if they are rejected because of their disability. Because today, you have nowhere to go. You experience an injustice and can't go anywhere. However, if you are discriminated against on a different background, as was said by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, for example, it could be based on skin colour or on sexuality. That is why we are changing it now and the draft law is an important step towards guaranteeing people with disabilities the right to equal treatment. In fact, the draft law contains a very wide-ranging ban on discrimination, which covers both public and private companies and, indeed, in all areas of society, and at the same time it will be possible to complain to the Equal Treatment Board and to obtain compensation if it considers that the law has been infringed. Then I know that it has been a great wish of several parties, including the Danish People's Party, that a right to fair adjustment is introduced. We have listened to this, but we need to look first at how a possible proposal for fair adjustment can take into account the economic consequences and clear demarcation and implementation. That is why the government will now also launch a study so that before the next assembly we will have a look at how fair adaptation can be incorporated into the law that we hope will now be adopted. First of all, it is important that we finally have a ban on discrimination, and we cannot stress enough that people with disabilities are part of the community and have the right to participate equally in the community. And, of course, I am available to answer any questions the committee may have during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130055	Thank you. We will take a few here while we are here, namely Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130102	Thank you to the Minister for the Minister's speech, and I would also like to commend the government. Because I really think that the government, together with the Danish People's Party and of course other people too, has put people with disabilities on the agenda, and I fully agree with the minister that this quantum leap is really great, and it has, it can be said, not been turned under previous governments. So I think that is incredibly positive, and thank you for that. Then we will have to return to the economic consequences, and it is also important, of course, that we examine them, even though we may be a little out of comprehension that it will result in such huge and unpredictable costs when we have not looked at Sweden and Norway, which have just introduced this with a fair adjustment. So I am going to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is involved in producing a report in which, like this one, we have it written down and it is being examined and that before the next session of Parliament there must be some economic calculations so that we can move on to a different path in relation to this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130211	As far as I am aware, there is agreement on a report, and that includes the fact that we will have a better study of the economic consequences. If this is not done, it is not about the government's unwillingness, and it is not because there is a resistance to doing so, but it is about the fact that, when you are a government responsible for the economy, you do not send a bill to the Parliamentary Chamber, which you do not know the extent of, and because it is very difficult to calculate and it has not been possible to calculate at this stage, it is therefore not with. But that is why we have made a commitment to see if we can get closer to it, and then we will have to take it from there when it is, hopefully, we will have some more knowledge. Then I would like to thank the roses for their cooperation. I fully share the conviction, and with the long list of good things that Mrs Karina Adsbøl has adopted over the last few years, I also think that there has been a lot of influence, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130314	I am personally pleased with influence, but it is also the case that more will have more. That is the case, but I would like to know whether the Minister has thought some thoughts, even in relation to what has been discussed about educational institutions in particular. Has the Minister had a dialogue with his colleague on this matter in relation to that? It's just because I remember especially the young girl who was supposed to have handed the diploma and who was sitting in front of the podium in her wheelchair, and the others were supposed to have handed the diploma on the podium. It's also where you think that it ought to be common sense that you just had a ramp so that she could sit with her fellow students and get this diploma. So I should like to know whether the Minister has also had a dialogue with his colleague in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130410	First in relation to that more will have more: Yes, that's true, and I feel that every week or every day I feel like saying "so such a good pressure," and it's just to say that it's actually quite a great pleasure. Because that also means that the government is on the mark when it comes to having a good disability policy. I have not been in direct dialogue with specific colleagues in relation to a reasonable adjustment in various sectors. First of all, it is not so much a question of calculating it in individual areas. It is a question of the overall way of calculating which is difficult. Then I fully agree with the case we saw last spring with the girl who could not get up and receive her diploma and who was shamed was hidden out of the way in the side behind a large plant. It was simply a matter that makes it turn in one. Why doesn't anyone intervene? As I remember the media case at the time last year, a ramp had been bought, and you could have just set up the ramp. I find this disgraceful, and that is why I think that every time we discuss disability policy and we can make enough legislation, and we must of course do so in the direction of making sense and ensuring a good community and ensuring equal treatment, there must also be room for common sense, and what happened last year in the translocation room was shameful.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130538	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130541	That's right. There was little common sense in this matter, and that was actually why it was so good if we did not leave everything to common sense, but try to legislate, and that is precisely why we should have reasonable adjustments, because then it was an obligation. It is not today, and therefore it could not be allowed to get away with it in the public domain, but it is not acting in contravention of the law. I really want to hear the Minister: does the Minister not think that it is a problem when you look at the UN Convention on Disabilities, that it is so clear that there is discrimination, if you do not make a fair adjustment, and when it says that it is an obligation to promote equality and eliminate discrimination, that the participating states must take all appropriate steps to ensure that fair adjustment is made? Does the Minister consider that the Minister has a particularly good argument for not fulfilling that obligation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130645	It has been the case that changing governments have considered that Denmark is complying with the UN Disability Convention, and it has also been estimated that this has been done without having a ban on discrimination against people with disabilities, which is what we are getting now. That's not gonna change. In the past, we had an assessment that we are living up to the Convention, and we will also have that afterwards, where we now have this joy today and are dealing first with a legislative proposal to ensure that people with disabilities are not discriminated against in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130721	This is not an assessment I share, but I agree that previous governments have had a similar interpretation and, unfortunately, it will not be better. I'd like to ask about the economics thing. I have such respect for the fact that it would be good to have a sense of what this costs. We are not in favour of legislation without knowing what it costs, but I wonder how it can be if the Minister wants us to have as precise an assessment as possible of this, that we have not been able to agree to try it out in a limited area, specifically education, as we have pointed out. Why on earth do we not try it out there so that we can see exactly what the practical experience is if we introduce a reasonable adjustment in a single area? I simply do not see common sense. What's the sense in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130817	The short answer is because it is not financially responsible. We cannot, of course, send a bill to the Parliamentary Assembly which does not know the economic consequences, and although it might seem attractive to say that we will then try it out in an area, it will still be the case that there will be economic consequences in that area. As a responsible government, we must always send the legislative proposals into the Parliamentary Chamber, of which we are familiar with the economy and the scale of the economy, and we do not do so for what is a fair adjustment, and that is why it seems that we are now getting a report in which we can hopefully try to get it a little closer in the next few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130903	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504130907	So I am really surprised by the government's perception of the concept of fair adjustment and its consequences, especially when I can quote from a note on which the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs are senders, from 22 August 2017 it is less than a year ago. It states that it follows from the Disability Convention that public authorities must ensure that appropriate adjustment is made if it does not impose a disproportionate or unnecessary burden on the Authority. This is already the case, says the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs. Then the thing is that it is difficult for citizens who believe that authorities have not been good enough to meet the demand for fair adjustment. How can they complain to the Equal Treatment Board about it if it is not apparent from a law to which they can refer, but from a note in which it says it? They don't have access to that in general. I simply do not understand that it is not clear that fair adjustment is anything but great demands, because it is an individual help, a helping hand, such as. moving a wheelchair up on a podium. After all, this does not lead to high public expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131034	For my part, I do not understand the surprise of the Radicals, because we have discussed this several times. We've had a lot of conversations, and we've had a lot of meetings. We have made it clear that it is difficult to estimate the economy. After all, it is important to say that the law has a very, very broad scope. The law applies both in the private sector and in the public sector. So what may seem to be a negligible small cost somewhere can, if you collect it and aggregate it, turn into a comparatively high social cost. This is the case, as Mrs Marianne Jelved also knows, as former Minister for Economic Affairs, that as responsible minister we must not put a legislative proposal in the Chamber which does not know the economic consequences. That is why, hopefully, we will now be able to get the study under way, which hopefully will give us a bigger point of reference for what it will cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131135	Did I get the floor? There's a red light here. It is true, as the Minister says, that we have discussed, among other things. It is not very promising that we will then be told that next autumn the Minister and the government will start a greater job. This should have happened a long time ago when we are so interested in it, and now I am just using reasonable adaptation as an example. And when we talk about accessibility, we just say that it is with regard to new buildings and new installations that attention must be paid to it. In this way, we send out some signals to society that it is also about helpfulness and some attitudes so that we can adjust our society gradually, piece by piece, so that everyone, including people with disabilities, can enjoy what we are building around. It is very, very difficult to understand that there can be no ordinary sensible treatment of this, although we must also take account of the economy, and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131307	Yes, it is always easy to be ambitious when you are in opposition. Mrs. Marianne Jelved says this should have been done a long time ago. Well, I just have to remind you that any longer since then it is not that Radicals themselves had the post of Minister for Social Affairs. You could've just done it. The fact is that it is a bourgeois government that would have to, in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, before we get a legislative proposal at all that ensures that people with disabilities should not be discriminated against. No one has proposed it before, at least where a government took it down to the Chamber so that it was implemented. It is, of course, because there has been a support party that has persistently wanted it and said that it is important and because there is a government that has chosen to accommodate it. So if this was something you should have done a long time ago, then I can only wonder why it hasn't been done, the last time you had the post of Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131354	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131357	I would like to be kind to the Minister, but I think that the Minister is actually working his way into a corner and doing this further work somewhat difficult, because the Minister so undertakes to scold some of the parties that have been involved, while other parties must be praised in order to make such a storytelling. I do not think it is quite right for the Minister to deal with this in this way. I should just like to point out that in 2009 Denmark acceded to the disability convention and in 2013 the then government presented a disability policy action plan which led to the accession of the voluntary part of the UN Disability Convention. Does the Minister think it reasonable to present it as if it were this government and some individual parties, after having received the support of virtually all parties in this Chamber, that this is a sensible legislative proposal in which we all share?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131502	Yeah, I think so. Because in my speech from up here, I started by signing all of the parties of the Folketing. I said thank you for some very, very good rapporteur speeches, and I meant it with all my heart. When I get freed and have questions that sound, why reasonable adaptation is not included, and why it only happens now, then, if you go into such a rhetoric then it is clear that I can follow along and ask a counter question and say that then I just wonder why you haven't put it yourself before that bill or made reasonable adjustments or ensured that you shouldn't discriminate against people with disabilities. But I actually started by expressing my gratitude and also my pleasure that the rapporteurs had made the speeches that they did. Maybe I should take that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131556	But what falls to me is that the Minister chooses to go in selectively and praise the parties. If you had stuck to the fact that all parties had received a recognition that we had worked for all men, that would have done nothing to me, but when history is to be changed into a single government and a single party that has driven extra, I do not really think it is a real picture of the process we have been through. I can only say that the Minister will probably have some challenges in getting the last thing in place here. All I have to do is join the ranks of those who point out that they have long ago said that what should have been included in the government's proposals with reasonable adaptation, and the government must then see if it can live up to that in the subsequent process.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131648	In other words, because some are highlighted, it does not mean that others are criticized. In fact, I think it is important to highlight here today that there is one party in particular, and I believe that everyone in this House actually agrees on who this is ultimate heart blood, absolutely basic heart blood. I could have done it, that I didn't say it, I could've just cut everyone over a comb, but I actually think I did boats-and. I think I was commended to those who have really pressed and pressed, and for whom this is just a matter of heart, while also thanking those who have really committed themselves to this discussion and with whom we have held meetings on this matter. So I actually think I did both. Now comes this study, and I hope that together we will have a lead on the future. I hope and believe that, and I hope and believe that we can do this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131751	Thank you very much to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. No one else has asked to speak, and the negotiations have therefore been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131817	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504131833	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution B 101 proposes that before the end of this parliamentary year, the government should amend the foreign regulations so that parents of children with disabilities can take the relief they receive on a daily basis during a temporary stay abroad. There is no possibility of that today. The motion for a resolution seeks to give families with children with disabilities the opportunity to take holidays abroad on an equal footing with other families. Well, that wish is, of course, understandable. For who cannot understand how challenging it must be for a family with a child with, for example, spastic paralysis or brain damage in relation to going on holiday, that the legislation does not allow you to take all the help you receive in your everyday life abroad? Nevertheless, the government cannot support the proposal, partly because it presents some practical challenges, partly because it is likely to involve public additional expenditure on a not insignificant scale. I'll get back to that. But first, it is important for me to say something in general about taking help under the Service Act abroad. The main starting point is that help under the Service Act is conditional on having a stay in Denmark. This means that you have to be in Denmark when you receive the help, and vice versa that the Danish authorities should not provide help to citizens who are staying outside the country's borders. However, for some specific types of assistance, an exception has been made to the starting point of stay in Denmark, which means that you have the right to take your help abroad during a temporary stay, including a holiday. The types of aid which you are entitled to take with you are additional cost benefits, lost earnings, the accompanying scheme, the BPA scheme, the contact scheme for deaf-blind people, aids, consumer goods, cars with disabilities and assistance in caring for close relatives with serious illness or disability. All these types of aid, which must therefore be seen as exceptions to the starting point of stay in Denmark as a prerequisite for help, are characterized by the fact that it is possible to take them abroad without major difficulties and without the purpose of the aid being lost. For example: If you are able to take your wheelchair with you on a weekend trip to Paris without much difficulty, the purpose of the wheelchair, which is to be able to get around, does of course mean that it has to go with you. The same applies to the BPA scheme, where you can easily take the day-to-day help that you have in your everyday life on a bathing holiday to Turkey, and the purpose of BPA, namely care, escort and surveillance, is precisely that you should be able to take the help outside the home. If I turn now to what the resolution specifically refers to, namely relief, I have to say that there are some challenges that make it quite complicated in practice to include it in the foreign policy notice as one of the types of aid that can be taken abroad. And these are even some challenges which, to me, are difficult indeed, almost impossible to solve, even if you plan your stay abroad very carefully. The challenges arise as a result of the way in which relief is given and in view of the extent of the aid. The relief is often given as so-called natural aid. In other words, the aid is provided by a municipal employee. In contrast, cash benefits are provided. This could, for example, be the extra cost benefit, where the family gets an amount in hand to meet their needs. In addition, relief is provided either in the family's home, where the municipal employee shows up and relieves the family, or in a relief institution where the child with disability is staying during relief. This in itself makes it difficult to take relief abroad, unlike if there had been a cash benefit, i.e. money in the hand, which could of course easily be taken with it. In addition, relief is typically given for a short period of time, which is set in advance. For example, it can be one everyday night a week and one weekend a month, i.e. not so much help. It is true that, even if the relief is not so extensive, it will in principle be possible to plan for the relief person to go abroad, for example on holiday, but this would have some financial consequences which we in the government must also take into account when assessing the resolution. Financial resources will therefore have to be allocated in addition to the relief already received by the individual family to the remuneration, residence etc. of the relief person. during, for example, an international vacation. This is because the relief person cannot, by its very nature, go home during periods of stay abroad during which relief is not granted. Let me illustrate this by an example of a family who receives relief on a daily basis on the night of the week and on a weekend per month. If that family goes on a week's holiday to southern Spain and brings their daily relief, as proposed in the motion for a resolution, then it will entail public additional costs for the relief person's salary, stay, etc. And it is also necessary to pay wages and residences for the period during which the relief person does not provide relief to the family, because it does not make sense to allow the relief person to travel back and forth between the periods during which aid is provided. So it is not possible at this stage to make a qualified assessment of the overall economic consequences of the resolution. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the need for relief during a stay abroad has not been identified. However, on the assumption that families with children with disabilities, like all other families, naturally take their children on vacations and not, as otherwise suggested in the motion for a resolution, leave them at home on a day-to-day basis because they cannot take their relief arrangements with them, it is to be expected that the additional public expenditure will be of a not insignificant scale. So, if I may sum up, I can say that the government believes that there are both practical challenges and not insignificant public extra costs by opening up to take relief for temporary stays abroad, including on holidays. And that is why we do not want to change the Foreign Order, so relief is made into one of the types of assistance under the Service Act that you have the right to go abroad. So the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132427	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132434	Thank you, Minister. Well, it's complicated, I hear the Minister say there are challenges and those things. But now it is the case that we are legislators, so that we can actually make the legislation we want to do. We can also make compromises and we can find solutions to this. I have received a great many requests for this resolution, even before it was tabled. That is actually why I put it forward, because many families have written to me. And the Muscle Dwindling Foundation has also written about e.g. Jane Brostrøm, who is the mother of 7-year-old Maise, who has muscle loss and uses a wheelchair. She wonders about the rules of the Service Act. The family must not take the help granted to them in their everyday life on holiday abroad, but the municipality must pay so well for Maise to have 1 week's stay either with a relief family or at an institution. If a child is to stay at home and cannot go on holiday but must be in an institution while the rest of the family is on holiday, it is deeply, deeply sad, but if we go back to the economics, it also costs to have a child in an institution for a week. So this motion for a resolution is intended to compensate itself in the end, and that is why we have asked about the costs, but we have not been able to get some calculations on that. And that is also why we have tabled this motion for a resolution, precisely because a place of relief must be provided if you are going on holiday as a family.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132615	In other words, there is nothing for me to suggest that it would be such a 1:1 solution to be able to bring relief abroad, that is to say that it would correspond to the cost of having a stay at an institution. The types of help that you can bring abroad are the types of help that goes on the child. It is the help for the child in daily life. It is the additional cost benefit, the accompanying scheme and a number of other schemes, BPA for adults, etc. After all, relief is something that is typically given to the family and that it has not been possible to calculate it, but that it is considered not to be significant, there is not such an opportunity for me to just say that we do so. Because I do not currently have the economy to give priority to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132704	As I said earlier, more wants more. I am sure that somehow we can find a solution. If nothing else, you could make a scheme, for example. a 1:1 scheme with regard to the costs that the municipality has to pay anyway, or find some solutions. After all, we are elected and, if we have a majority in here, we can do what we want. We can bring together a bill as we will if there is support for it. I mean, this resolution is not written in granite or anything else. In the Danish People's Party we fully agree to find solutions to how we do it. Because these families are often searched for this paragraph, and that's why there's a challenge to taking the relief out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132757	During the previous item, when we discussed more of them, it was funny that this motion for a resolution was also that I could just see for myself. Well, that will require a finance minister to be spoken to, because there will be economic conditions attached to this. And that is why the government cannot just say that it wants to do so. It is clear that, if we are to do this, it must, of course, be financed first and foremost.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132829	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132836	Thank you. After all, the Minister lists all the groups of citizens who already have the opportunity to get help in relief or help in helping themselves in connection with holidays. This is, of course, just a group of citizens who, as it were, fall outside the agreements in force, so I have read the motion for a resolution immediately, and it is also a question of getting them in. I think that the Minister lists the expensive examples, that is to say those children who need very little relief in their daily lives, but do not, of course, include those children who need extensive relief, where it must necessarily be relatively cheaper in relation to what is normally paid. I wonder if the Minister could perhaps see some sort of modulation. Indeed, I do not believe that parents with very little need for relief are necessarily looking for relief on holiday, but it is the parents who are in need of extensive relief if they are to have recreational content in their holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504132941	Well, children who need a lot of relief will typically also have one of the other schemes or even more. Then you will typically have a disability and a need for support, which is so extensive that you are already under one of the other benefits that you can therefore take with you. The point which is the jumping point is that where the others are cash money you can bring, a relief person is what is called natural aid and therefore a physical person. It is clear that if you have relief one evening a week, or you have a weekend a month, it will be difficult to take the person on a holiday which may be of seven days' duration or 14 days' duration. This means that you have to pay for the entire holiday in question from Monday, until you return home on Sunday, when the holiday ends, and that is also what makes it so much more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133042	But that is true, and the alternative could be relief in the institution, which is also quite costly, one might say. I think it's good for the families that they try to stick together, but we're guessing. I also think it sounds like the Minister is guessing. So could one at least suggest that one was trying to uncover what the scale and the need actually is, when relatively many people with understanding in the field say that this is not actually going to be very expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133113	It is true that it is complicated matter. I really think that these questions and answers also give a good picture of that. Because it is clear that there is a difference between whether you are in relief for a week in an institution or you are in relief for a few hours an evening a week or only a few hours every other week. It's just that the set of rules is like being under one, and that's why it's so difficult to calculate, because it's hard to put in the calculation assumptions. So when we are dealing with a motion for a resolution which is being sent to the House immediately, I am dealing with it as a minister, and it is there that I say that this is difficult to access. There will be an economic cost to this motion for a resolution, and that is also why the government cannot support it, and I would point out that there are many other opportunities for support and assistance which you can actually take on a holiday abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133210	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133214	If you look at what should we call it the general human being in this, does the Minister not think that there is a strange discrepancy in the way the legislation is organised? If a family of three children, one of whom is disabled and where relief is needed, chooses to go on holiday with their three children, then there is no support whatsoever for relief, but if, on the other hand, they choose for one reason or another that there is a strong need for them to do something with the two children who do not have a disability and leave the third child at home, then the public can go in and pay. Isn't there something wrong with family priorities and what we have to think in general is that families need to take care of all their children, that is to say that if you leave the child at home, the public pays, but if you choose to take all your children on holiday, then there is no public subsidy? Doesn't it seem to be awkward, considering how we think that families should be able to function?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133320	First of all, it is important to say that a number of the schemes relating to the child and the child's need for support are possible to take part in a stay abroad. But relief is something that goes on the family and not on the child. And it is clear that if you are going 14 days south to Spain and you have an evening off a week, it will suddenly be a lot, because in addition to transport, you will also have to pay wages to the reliever during the entire stay, all 14 days in southern Spain, and that is why it is going to be a very violent economic exercise; it is not just a few hours when the holiday is one week or 14 days or whatever.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133412	However, would it not at least be reasonable for the public subsidy that you can get if you leave one of your three children at home from such a holiday to be of the same size when you choose to leave with all your children? Is it not quite wrong that in one case the full cost is covered, that is, what has been allocated, while in the other case you do not get a penny? Would it not be reasonable to at least get with you the allowance that you would be able to get if you left the child at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133448	But the benefit is provided today as a natural aid, which means that you get a relief person or a relief institution, and therefore it is not possible to change for a grant. And I cannot stand here now and say what an implication of it will be, but I can only emphasise that if you have a child with a very large need for support, there are a number of schemes from which you can get help. There is additional expenditure, there is the BPA scheme, which of course is for adults, there is an accompanying scheme which is a contact mechanism. There are a number of schemes which are all possible to take abroad and which thus meet the needs of the child. Then the relief goes on the family, and it is given as a natural aid today, and if you are going to change it, it will cost, and it will have an implication. And that is why the government cannot support what it is doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133547	I would like to thank the Minister for Children and Social Affairs very much. Then we go to the rapporteurs, and the first Mr. Orla Sea of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133558	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution seeks to amend the legislation so as to enable parents who are caring for a child or a young person under 18 years of age with a disability in the home and who have been granted help to relieve parents under Section 84 of the Services Act to be able to include relief aid in future when they are on holiday with their child abroad. On the part of the Social Democrats, we fully share the intention that families who have a child with disabilities should have the same opportunity to go on holiday and charge as other families. We also share the view that it is quite difficult conditions that we often offer these families. We will go a long way to ensure that our legislation is fair and flexible so that the municipalities can provide the help and support that is necessary to give these families a tolerable daily life. Having said that, we must also put on the spectacles of realism when it comes to costs, as the Minister has also mentioned in his speech. There must be both a reasonable and realistic perspective in this, according to what is needed, including in terms of the need for it to be a reasonable desire for holidays and stays abroad. It would immediately be quite far-reaching for local staff to be taken abroad in quotation marks, which would be the case if relief under Section 84 could be included abroad, as the proposal envisages. With regard to this motion for a resolution, it seems extremely unclear to us at least what the situation is today and to what extent a change in legislation could be applied, because there are, after all, other possibilities of relief through the Service Act, which can either be brought abroad or have the possibility of relief in other ways while you are abroad. It is not well described in which situations or in how long the proposers imagine they should be able to take help abroad. Will a family, for example? could spend months in another country • perhaps country of origin with help and relief brought with it from Denmark? Neither the Ministry nor the proposers have been able to assess or assess the consequences of a change of law. If there is a need for a change in the law, and we say that certainly cannot be the case, then we believe that this requires an in-depth study and assessment of the needs and therefore also the economic consequences. Furthermore, we think it is a bad thing that the parties behind the pool agreements are trying to promote their own priorities here without negotiating, and we expect the pool funds to subsequently cover such secessional priorities. That is just what our negotiators have said in the field of the pool of rates. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution and are also in a situation where, at least, I find that a number of families cannot even meet the needs they have in their daily lives at home in Denmark. We can of course look at the conversion rates carried out by the Ankestyrelsen in relation to the municipalities' decisions in this area. So this has to be put into a larger whole and subjected to an in-depth investigation before we can contribute to it. We do not support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133950	Mrs Karina Adsbøl would like to enrich the rapporteur with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504133956	Thank you. I should like to ask whether the rapporteur has seen Question No 1, which is not a question. 193 from the parliamentary year 2017-18. That is precisely where we have asked about the economics, and there the Ministry has stated that it is not possible to make a realistic assessment of whether there will be more or less public expenditure associated with creating the legal basis for including relief under the Services Act. It is, of course, in the light of the fact that the municipality is obliged, if it is, to make relief available to the family if they are to travel themselves. Many families may choose not to do so. So I do not understand why social democracy will not help to look for a solution. It is not certain that it should be exactly this motion for a resolution, but a report in committee in which we are working on this issue may also do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134102	I have indicated that we are prepared to examine this area so that there can be clarity about the economy which the Ministry obviously cannot provide and which the proposers are not in a position to quantify. I also have a knowledge that it is too difficult for many municipalities to live up to the legislation we have to help these families at home. So the question is whether we can do it while knowing that it is really difficult for the municipalities, with the economy that has been agreed between the government and the municipalities, to fulfil their tasks. This is also an aspect that we need to take into account here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134150	That is exactly what I read out in relation to the questions and answers I have been given. However, I do not think it is an argument that we should not help because, as I understood the rapporteur, municipalities find it difficult to comply with existing legislation. I'm familiar with that, too. We have, of course, drawn up an action plan in this area in order to strengthen legal certainty in the field of disability. Then I cannot understand why the rapporteur said that it is a mistake to table a motion for a resolution. I think it is fantastic that there are some parties in the Folketing who have some very good ideas about what can be done better in precisely the rapporteur's areas with which each of us is sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134234	The Danish People's Party recognizes that this is the wish of the Danish People's Party for the pool negotiations, and then it is probably fair that this wish is played into the pool of bets when it comes to negotiating a single package. Now the Danish People's Party is playing it in here and has the expectation that the pool funds will help to meet the costs of decisions that might be made at this stage. Here it is just that we are saying that this is not a very fair way of conducting wage-pool negotiations. We do not think that is reasonable. Nor do I think it is fair that, when we are in a situation where we are aware that the municipalities have enormous difficulty in complying with the level of service that we have for a great many families here in Denmark, at the same time we are very concerned about adding another task. We are fully involved in clarifying what this will cost and looking at the need, but it has to be seen in a priority order, in terms of how to meet the needs of ordinary families.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134340	Thank you very much, sir. Orla Sea, and welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134351	Thank you for the floor. As with the previous one, I am holding the rapporteur's speech here on behalf of the Left Socialist rapporteur. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for allowing us to have the debate on these matters in the Chamber today. In the Left we can understand the desire to allow families with children with disabilities to stay temporarily abroad during holidays on an equal footing with other families and thus to take relief abroad. Having said that, we in the Left still believe that the resolution here is not the right way to go, and that is why we are going to vote no. And we do so on the basis that we actually believe that we have an obligation here in the Folketing to think about how best to spend money and how to achieve the best possible service and dignity for citizens, including for parents who have children with disabilities. The motion for a resolution is, of course, a little difficult to implement, as it is difficult to take relief from it, which often comes in the form of support from a municipal worker with them abroad. Some of the things that the Minister also mentioned in the speech are about that. In addition, the economic consequences of a proposal such as this need to be considered. And in view of these things, we will be saying no to this motion for a resolution, and I welcome our good friends in the Conservative People's Party and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134531	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and welcome to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504134539	It is a very good thing that we have a service law where it is established that it is possible to bring a number of benefits for temporary stays abroad. This, of course, allows people with disabilities to take holidays on an equal footing with other citizens, and it is of course important that the support and assistance that citizens should benefit from in this country works. No one can disagree with that, but in the whole concept of equality there is, of course, the need to ensure equality for people with disabilities, in other words, that they can live in any way on an equal footing with other citizens. And that also means that it should be possible to take a holiday abroad for those concerned. What benefits can be taken into account has already been mentioned by several rapporteurs. It is an 11 pieces mentioned in the Order, but unfortunately not in Section 84 of the Act, according to which the municipalities must offer relief to spouses, parents or other close relatives who care for a person with reduced physical or mental capacity. It's a shame that that paragraph isn't included. We do not have any precise evidence of the scale, but I have understood it this way, including in the comments on the motion for a resolution, that it means that there are a number of parents who, by virtue of this, are cut off from holidays. It would be a good thing if, in the future, we were given the opportunity to clarify the extent of the proposal, because I can hear that there is no majority in favour of it. I would say that one is too many, but it might be interesting to have it mapped out. In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree with the proposers that it would be right to correct the deficiency in the notice so that we have as soon as possible the same opportunities for the families of children concerned as all other families with children. It can be said that this is a simple matter, because there is a legal basis in the legislation. We do not even need to change the legislation, so that is why it could be done when we get to the second reading and a vote, because the minister has exactly the authority in the legislation to change the regulation. So this is not a difficult matter. What may be difficult, I understand, is the economy. And yes, I have read the answer to Question 193, which I can confirm to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, and it says, as already mentioned, that it is not possible to make a realistic assessment of whether there will be more or less public expenditure associated with creating legal bases, etc. And we are firmly committed to it before, when we have discussed disability legislation, that the answer to it when we have proposed changes, whether it has been the Danish People's Party or perhaps on a good day Enhedslisten, is that we cannot change anything. Well, we've been given that answer several times and I remember several examples of it that you can't really assess the cost of it. And it's a bad thing if we legislate that way. Because, on the one hand, I understand that there is a need for a government to know what the hell it costs when we adopt proposals in the Folketing. However, when you cannot get an answer to the cost, it is quite unreasonable, on the other hand, that citizens should be harmed, that we are not able to get an answer through the Ministry and agencies on relative banals, I think, questions. So here it must not be for the benefit of the government that you cannot answer the cost. Here it must benefit the citizens, which is why we fully support the proposal that lies here from the Danish People's Party. We think it would be very good if we could have the announcement amended as soon as possible, in other words at second reading. And if that is not possible, then I really hope that the answer we have now received, that you cannot know what it costs, will lead to you now getting involved in finding out what the cost is. For the citizens concerned simply cannot be served by the fact that they are not covered by the provisions here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135007	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135015	Thank you for that, President. It is, of course, a sympathetic purpose to allow children with disabilities to take their relief workers on holiday, but it is also important to note that this may mean increased costs, because in reality it is not a matter of taking the relief that you get on holiday. If you send a municipal employee on a week's vacation, it far exceeds the hours in which you usually get relief. Therefore, it is not necessarily a question of making this scheme more flexible, but it is a significant extension of the scheme, which can also be associated with significant expenditure. Now, of course, I hear what the proposer from DF has said to the previous rapporteurs when it comes to the fact that, if the family goes on holiday, the municipality makes a relief offer available to the child during that period. It is of course interesting to delve into the cost of it, but I still believe that, or of course it must be the case that it is cheaper for the child to go to an institution that week than to have a municipal employee alone in that week on holiday. But it is not certain that there are huge economic differences, and it is certainly worth diving into. The text of the motion for a resolution states that in practice it is very important whether relief has been granted under one or other provision of the Services Act, and when I read it, I got the impression that it was a coincidence that aid had been granted under one or the other paragraph, because it is intended that there should be a significant difference. At the same time, only expenditure is covered under the paragraph, which cannot be covered under other paragraphs. I think there is a very good intention behind this proposal, because, of course, abroad holidays are extremely important for children with disabilities, it goes without saying, but when it is a matter of primary relief to a lesser extent, we need to consider whether it is reasonable to make a municipal employee available for one week, 14 days or 3 weeks' holiday if, for example, it is a family that gets relief 5 hours a week and every other weekend. So somehow I think, and I think we all share the intention, but somehow you have to see if you can grasp it, if you can learn more about how to ensure that it does not run away economically. And then it's just that if you want to implement this as it is here, at least you have to find and point out funding. So the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal as it stands here, but we think it is a fine debate to get up and we think it is fine, as Enhedslisten also mentioned, that one should delve into how many of the families who get relief are keeping themselves from going on holiday. Because that is of course relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135400	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135405	I do not know whether the rapporteur has received any calculations from the Ministry, because we have not been able to get anything in the Danish People's Party. And every time the rapporteurs go up and say that this will cost a whole lot, without having any calculations, precisely in spite of the fact, as the Minister has replied, that it is not possible to make a realistic assessment of whether there will be more or so the rapporteurs who have said so cannot stand on the platform and say that it will entail more expenditure. We don't have the calculations, so you don't know that. That's the answer from the Ministry, anyway. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not understand that a family can have a disabled child and perhaps also have other children. That you should be able to bring that help, for example. For 1 week we write temporary stays, we are not talking about 3 weeks or 4 weeks, but among other things. A short stay abroad can be of great benefit to siblings, so there will also be help to their sister or brother who has a disability. And siblings also need focus and attention from Mom and Dad when you have a sister or a brother who has a disability. So I would like the rapporteur to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135534	I think it is quite right that the Ministry announces that it is difficult to assess the economy of this. When I consider that there will be significant economic considerations, one has to make oneself in relation to this, it is of course because it goes without saying that if a family is allocated 5 hours of relief in one week and one sends a municipal employee with a whole week, it is not just 37 hours, because this municipal employee has to be compensated for being away for a whole week. So that in itself is many more hours. That is why I think it must be reasonably obvious that this would mean additional costs. But I think that's fair enough. Then all you have to say is that we want to give priority to this. For it is perfectly fair to say that it will cost some money, but politically we think that our welfare society should offer it to children with disability. I think that is quite fair, but then we should just point out the funding. Briefly in terms of understanding what families need, I would say that I can easily understand that. I just think that there is something about proportionality in it. For example, if you are allocated five hours a week, I do not think that you should be able to have a full-time employee from the municipality for a whole week at the expense of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135701	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think we need such a rapporteur over in the Ministry of Finance who has some clear calculations on this in his head. I think the Minister for Finance needs Mrs Laura Lindahl over in the Ministry of Finance. Having said that, however, I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. I don't know where those five hours come from, because you have to look at the alternative to this. The alternative is, of course, that the municipality must provide a relief offer, either in an institution or in a foster family, and these are the two things to weigh in relation to each other. But may I just say that sometimes it is too much about economy. Sometimes I think we lack some more empathy here in the Folketing and understand what situations and challenges you can have as a family when you have a child with a disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135754	I fully understand what challenges you can have as a family if you have a child with disability. That's not what this is about, because I can understand that. This is about me thinking that there should be some proportionality between the right you have and the need you have. And if you as a family need relief, now I said for 5 hours, but it can be for 10 hours. It's an example, it can be everything in between, and it can also be 15 hours. I don't think it's fair that you get a municipal employee with 24 hours a day for a whole week. You might think that's fair, but I just don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135832	Thank you very much to Mrs Laura Lindahl. And welcome to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504135840	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start by pointing out that I am giving the speech on behalf of Torsten Gejl, who is the alternative disability rapporteur. And I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution. The proposal obliges the Government to amend Article 1 (1) of the Foreign Order. 2, so that parents of children with disabilities can in future include relief aid granted under Section 84 of the Services Act. 1, cf. There has been a lot of talk about the differences between the paragraphs depending on whether you can take relief abroad and much has been said about what it will cost. In the alternative, we have three bottom lines. We have the economic bottom line, of course, and then we have the environmental bottom line, but we also have the social bottom line. In other words, we do not believe that everything can be calculated according to the cost. There must be other considerations than economic considerations, and this could be one of the cases in which other considerations have to be taken into account, namely social considerations. Because in the alternative, we agree with the proposers that families with disabled children should be given the opportunity to take holidays abroad, no matter what clause of the Service Act is granted relief after. And we also agree that it is very important for these already hard-pressed families that they can go on holiday and relax, get new experiences together and load up. This is of great importance to both children and parents and to siblings. It is important to have the opportunity to break the everyday framework and experience new surroundings and to create memories for life. That is why we wholeheartedly support the proposal. It is also, of course, because equal treatment, regardless of disability, is at the heart of the alternative at all. And we hope that some form of arrangement can be found, so that when you set off, as the Danish People's Party says, with regard to the fact that the child has to have a whole week in the institution, you can count on it. Perhaps you could imagine that two families left at about the same time and shared a helper with disabilities who lived in the same hotel. There must be plenty of things you can sit around and play with, so that you could have this proposal that would have such an impact on parents with a disabled child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140125	Thank you very much, Mrs Sandbæk. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140132	Thank you. The Radical Left would very much like to support the motion for a resolution before us and believe that a solution should be found. The starting point for this reasoning is the following: I really see the motion for a resolution as an expression of the fact that there are families around the country who have children with disabilities and who bump into what seems incomprehensible to them, i.e. that they can get a subsidy for help in this country, but that if they want to travel outside the country's borders for a week and take the family with them, including the child with disabilities, they cannot get the help that they can get in Denmark. And I think it is a task for all legislators that if there is legislation that is incomprehensible to the people affected by the legislation, then we must somehow help to make it understandable. Now I'm just saying in a very low-practical way how I actually think about this. If I were a family with a disabled child, I would think: okay, we all need to go on holiday in the family; we go down to Lake Garda; we can do that in a week, but we just have a child with a disability that requires something special, care etc. But I do not believe that any family would do that, leaving a child with a disability alone at home. And then the family thinks: why can't we get the money that it costs at the relief facility and take it with us so that we can take care of the relief we need ourselves? I'd think that when I sat at home at the dining table and talked about these things in practice. And I don't know if that is possible, but that is why I still think we need clarification on: why can some help be taken with one way or another, and why can't the help you get in Denmark be converted into something you can take on a holiday trip for the family? This is the kind of thing I would like to cultivate in the debate on the motion for a resolution, the intention of which I think is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140345	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140348	Well, I was drawn a little bit by what Mrs. Marianne Jelved said about the money. What I hear the rapporteur say is that you should drive according to the principle that the money follows the child so that we avoid the discussion about additional costs or minor costs. But we say that the specific amount to which the child is entitled in Denmark can take the family to Lake Garda, and then they must supplement it themselves, because of course it costs more to have a full time. But the fact that the municipality does not save, by going on vacation, and not earning, by going on vacation, i.e. that the amount is the same, I would think it was very sensible to look at. Can we look at a model where the money follows the child so that you can bring the money and it makes no difference whether you are taking a holiday in Marielyst or on Lake Garda? is that what I hear the rapporteur suggest?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140447	Yes, that is exactly what I said and thought we should consider whether we could find a solution within that framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140458	I just want to say that I kind of think that sounds really reasonable. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very much in favour of the principle that money always follows the child in all areas. So a model like that seems interesting to me to dive into.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140512	I'm very glad to hear that. Now there is contact between blue and red block, and then it usually succeeds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140519	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. It may be that the Minister should consider interfering too, but it is first Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140527	Thank you. It's great to have some contact between red and blue blocks. It's just before the rest can become superfluous. We have just dealt with the law on discrimination on the grounds of disability, which was under an earlier item on the agenda, and I really think that this proposal is very much in line with what we have just discussed, namely to allow citizens to have a level playing field, regardless of the fact that they may have a disability. It is unfortunate, I think, when it is families with children who need special social education support that they cannot take holidays on an equal footing with other families with children. Today it is not possible to take relief abroad, which is why parents must take over relief, which at worst can take the attention of other children in the family on holiday. At the same time, many take a vacation to charge the batteries after a busy day, and it can be difficult when you have to give a little extra care to your child with disabilities. Other families then choose the solution, which has also been mentioned, that they simply leave the child with disabilities at home from the holiday and allow the child to stay at a relief institution paid by the municipality. Whatever solution is chosen, it is really an unfortunate situation, I think. The SF therefore also supports the proposal. We believe that families with children with disabilities have the right to take holidays on an equal footing with all other families. Therefore, families must also be given the opportunity to take relief into temporary stays abroad when a child is searched for, for example, social pedagogic support or other forms of help. Then it must be written into the visitation that it also applies to temporary stays abroad, because, as we have said in many other contexts, we always think that the child's best interests are the most important thing. I agree that there is room for clarification in the motion for a resolution, including clarification of the extent of the relief. Parents who only get relief 5 hours a week hardly bring a helper. So it's so cool not having helpers on vacation either. But it can be difficult to get recreational content in a holiday and not least time for other children if relief needs, for example. is 40 hours a week. I would therefore also like to call on the Minister to give that calculator a little extra massage in order to come up with an answer to the real cost of this proposal a little bit closer. I am also listening to the fact that there could be a basis for a good discussion in committee to find solutions to a, I think, not very big problem. But for the people who are experiencing the problem, it is huge, and we should be able to solve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140813	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504140825	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments and the debate. I would like to clarify something here from the platform. Because I think that many people have misunderstood relief in the home and relief outside the home, and this is about relief, which is going on outside the home. It's just to clarify it in relation to the paragraphs. It's also about requiring the government to amend the foreign law so that families who have a disabled child can include the relief granted under the Service Act on holidays abroad. When a family with a disabled child cannot include relief aid under Section 84 (1) of the Services Act. 1, according to section 44, the family will otherwise be able to leave the child at home in a relief family or in an institution, as the municipality is allowed to cover the costs thereof. And there I think what Mrs Marianne Jelved said in her rapporteur's speech is quite right, that is to say that it is really, really difficult for many families. However, in the Danish People's Party, we want parents who care for a child or a young person under the age of 18 to be able to receive the help. Families with a disabled child must be able to take holidays on an equal footing with other families. So do the rest of us. Most parents who care for a child or a young person with a disability at home do not, like all other parents, have the opportunity to charge, relax and get energy for everyday life when they are on holiday because they cannot include help to care for their child with disabilities. In addition, the comprehensive care assignment that comes with having a child with a disability will also take much of the attention and time from other children in the family when a family with a disabled child cannot include relief aid under the Service Act. Alternatively, the family will be able to leave the child at home in a relief family. That is why I think it is essential that, rather than talking away from each other, we also find solutions. And now I have also followed the debate and have heard that the rapporteur of the Radicals and also of the Liberal Alliance believe that the money should follow the child. It is of course interesting to look at that part, and now, as I have said before, it is also the case that our resolution has not been cut into granite. It can easily be changed and it can be clarified. But when you talk about the economics of this, I do not think you can say from the platform that it will cost so much, because we simply cannot get an answer to that. It is, it can be said, also the frustration that you, as rapporteur, have when you want to get something through, that you can sometimes feel that from a government it is not just this government, but it could also be another government, as we have seen in the past, such an answer comes which says that uh, it costs so much and so much money, or we cannot make calculations on that, or we cannot finance that. I think there is so much more to be said about this: yes, let us look at it, and let us see if we cannot find a solution together. It may not be the solution that lies here in our resolution, but there may be other solutions, precisely in order to improve the conditions of families. That is also what I mentioned earlier about a great many families having asked about, and which I also read out from my place that the Muscle Dwindling Foundation has pointed out. Then it was said from the Enhedslisten in his speech that the Minister has the means to do so, so that she could simply change it, that is to say, the power to amend the legal provisions. It is, of course, the matter of ministers who are empowered to do some things. It is not always as good when they do not want to do what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party would like to do, but that is the way it is. However, I see that there are some positive tactics, and at least I am pleased that both the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the SF and others support the motion for a resolution, and that is why I hope that we can approach each other in further committee rather than move in each direction. Because we can, when we sit together, also across parties I know at least that Mrs Marianne Jelved and I have done many good things together when we sit together and have found solutions rather than limitations. It may be that we disagree when we have put ourselves together on some things, but then it is also sometimes a matter of compromise. That is why I look forward to the committee reading. I would like to thank you for today's debate, and I would also like to wish you a very good weekend when you get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504141357	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Then I should like to ask whether the Minister wishes to take part in the debate on the details here on the platform. She doesn't. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504141427	The negotiations have been opened and the first to speak is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504141456	Thank you for that, President. The proposers of the B 133 require the government to launch by the end of 2018 a 2-year experiment with a pool for municipalities to go to rock cards for leisure activities for children and young people. The pool is intended to prevent mental malaria among children and adolescents 3-18 years of age. I would like to start by saying that I think this is a very sympathetic proposal, which is also a good intention. I very, very much agree that it is important to take early action against children and young people who have poor mental health and who do not thrive. It is clear that I am also concerned that there are several young people who experience anxiety or depression or otherwise show signs of poor mental health. It is very worrying • very, very worrying, and perhaps one of the most important focus areas we will be looking at in the next few years. There is no doubt that vulnerable children can benefit greatly from participating in leisure activities and that it is extremely important, especially for children in a vulnerable position, to have the opportunity to be part of a social community. We all know how great a difference personal relationships can make in a period of adversity, and as a vulnerable child or young person, one especially needs to have strong social relationships and a place where there is room for success experiences, for example, if one is having difficulty at school or at home. That is why I also very much agree that as a society we must support children and young people's opportunities for active leisure, and I believe that we are doing so today. We support children and young people's leisure life through a wide range of initiatives and through a wide range of channels. Today, in fact, there are already very good opportunities for municipalities to provide precisely the kind of support for leisure activities that the proposers propose, in the form of a rock card for children and young people. Therefore, I do not think it makes sense to set up an experimental pool for the municipalities, which is why the government cannot support the proposal. I would like to deepen the government's position. The fact that the government does not support the proposal is due, firstly, to the fact that pools of experimental projects have already been established with exactly this type of scheme in several rounds over recent years. This is typical of the wage-pool agreements, and as part of the 2006-2009 wage-pool agreement, experiments were carried out with a pool for municipalities with clipping cards for leisure activities for children and young people, that is, what we commonly refer to as the leisure pass. With the 2010-2013 rate pool agreement, a new and similar experiment was carried out with a pool for the municipalities with recreational passports, and as part of the project, material was prepared for the municipalities in 2016 which were called the dissemination of experience with leisure passports. Finally, eight municipalities in the context of the prevention package were part of a pilot project from 2015 to 2016, which aims inter alia: was to develop an inspirational catalogue for all municipalities in order to spread good implementation of leisure arrangements, and the catalogue was published in 2017. Second, the experimental pools that have already been carried out have formed the basis for the introduction of a preventive provision in the Service Act in 2014 § 11 (1). 6, to support the possibility for municipalities to provide children and young people with an active leisure life. This provision is precisely about financial support for leisure activities such as music activities or sports activities, and the provision is for both vulnerable young people and young people who need intensive social action. However, it is also for children and young people who are experiencing a poor period of mental vulnerability, ill health or poor mental health, and where, therefore, there may be a need to prevent negative development. Thirdly, support is also being given today for children and young people to have an active leisure life through a wide range of initiatives. In the social field, for example, there were: in the framework of the 2018 Rate Pool Agreement, set aside 35 million. kr. to the civil society strategy for local projects, which must therefore contribute to fewer, both children and young people and adults, being lonely, and more being helped into voluntary association life. There are a number of voluntary organisations that do a great deal of work around Denmark to strengthen vulnerable children's opportunities for active leisure. For example, the organisation BROEN helps socially vulnerable children and young people with quotas and equipment so that they can participate in local associations and clubs and go to sports, theatre, scouts or music, or it could be other leisure activities. Also Save the Children makes a really big difference through e.g. the project "Space for everyone" to help children from vulnerable families into leisure life. Both the BROEN and Save the Children and their projects I have met, and I have seen for myself the opportunities they offer children. In addition, through section 18 of the Service Act, municipalities have the possibility to support voluntary social associations and organisations which make a great effort locally, for example. if children and adolescents are in a vulnerable position. I am also aware that there are a large number of initiatives in the field of the Ministry of Culture aimed at supporting children and young people to go to music, sports activities and the like. That is why I believe that, overall, we have a good framework for giving children and young people in Denmark the opportunity to have an active leisure life. I also believe that there are good opportunities for municipalities to provide preventive support for those children and young people who particularly need a helping hand in getting started on recreational activities. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity to call on the municipalities which are not already using the opportunities offered by the law to get started. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is important that we keep up with each other the agreements made among the parties in the pool. There we have agreed that as far as possible we should avoid having too many small secession pools. Small pools can, of course, provide disproportionate administrative work for municipalities or organisations and must be set up with care. They can of course be used if, for example, there are very special reasons for carrying out new experiments for specific purposes. This is a sympathetic proposal that lies before us, and I therefore agree that it is important to focus on preventive measures against children and young people with poor mental health, but a pool for municipalities with a rock card scheme has already been tested several times and the good experience has already been made available to all the municipalities in the country. That is why, overall, I do not think it is a good idea to create once again a new pool for the municipalities that the proposers want, and on that basis the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142149	Thank you very much to the honourable Minister, as it was called 50 years ago. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142203	Thank you and thank you for the positive approach to the proposal. I am aware, as the comments on the proposal say, and also, because I myself have been chairman of a school committee in a municipality for six years, that there are offers in the municipalities, but as we also mention in the proposal, they are very diverse and it is very different what you do in the different municipalities. The point of the bet pool is, of course, that we should try to learn from good experiences, and in that way, one might say, we could find out that it shouldn't be a pool. We could find out that it should be something that just applies to all municipalities and that we in here from the Folketing decide if it is a problem that it is a pool. I would like to know whether the Minister recognises the experience they have gained in Iceland, for example. has provided a leisure time cutting card in the form of an amount for all families, so that all children can go to leisure activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142311	Well, as I remember, Iceland has done a lot of different things. They have among other things: They made such offers, and as far as I remember, they have also made some restrictions in relation to when to be home when you are young. So it is not necessarily all the measures that are being taken in Iceland that we should be inspired by. But I actually fully acknowledge the intention and I think the intention of the proposers is very good and it is right and it is important. In fact, I would perhaps like to raise it to an even higher level of ambition, because if we are to combat dissatisfaction, if we are to address the psychological vulnerability we see in young people today, if we are to improve prevention, is a rock map sufficient? That's a question you could ask yourself. And it is certainly worth pointing out that right now the Minister for Health is working to present a psychiatry action plan which will also address children and young people, because we can see that there has been an increase in the number of children and young people in psychiatric care, and we can see that there are simply several of the young people who feel psychologically vulnerable. I believe that this is a huge challenge and I believe that it will be one of the greatest challenges facing society that we will face in the years to come to counter mental vulnerability. We do not know so much from the research as to why it is there right now, but we know that it is there, and we must of course have done something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142437	I am pleased that the Minister agrees with me that this is one of the greatest challenges we have at all. After all, we cannot have two ministers in the debate, but it would also have been good if the Minister for Health had been here, because it is not necessarily a social problem; it is also a health problem. It is just as important that we look at mental health as physical health. But what I want to hear is, 83%. of children with many activities in leisure time say that they are doing well or really well, so whether Iceland has done other things too, doesn't the Minister think it's worth looking at? And whether this is the solution we are proposing here or another solution, does the Minister not believe that it would be worth diving into this with leisure and outdoor activities, in other words that it strengthens children's mental health?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142534	This is precisely why the municipalities have the opportunity to give it today, and it is excellent that the municipalities have the opportunity to do so under § 11 (1). 6, but it is also excellent that private associations are actually on the verge of helping. In other words, an association such as the BROEN, with which I visited, collects their funding through private contributions, and they simply give priority to paying quotas and equipment for families who cannot afford themselves and who may well be in this target group, which is socially vulnerable and which, at the same time, can also be psychologically vulnerable. So I actually think that we have a really fine system today, where the public takes care of a very large part of the tasks, but where we actually also invite the private ones in and give them the opportunity to play a role in taking responsibility and thus helping some vulnerable children who might otherwise not have been helped.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142639	Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142642	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister for the very, very thorough statement that we received, for why the government had to say no to the proposal. And then I would say that in reality the Minister has already answered the question that I intended to ask. It is a fact that, despite all the measures mentioned by the Minister, many children and young people are still miserable. But the Minister then said in his reply to Pernille Schnoor that the issue could be raised in a higher category and that action is being taken by the government which intends to address the issue in another ministry. So that's why the answer has come in and out. I was going to ask the Minister if the Minister could propose other measures that could help with the question that was asked, and the Minister has answered that already before I asked the question, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142737	I have to say, what if it was always like that? That would be lovely!
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142745	Would the questioner like an extra question? No. Then we thank the Minister for Children and Social Affairs and welcome the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504142802	Thank you for that, President. I'll tell her I'm a substitute for Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, so it's mostly her thoughts you need to hear. However, I would like to express a positive appreciation to the alternative of having made this proposal. It is obvious that the need for financial support for quotas and equipment for leisure activities is indisputable; however, there is a need for better organisation and more alignment of the framework and conditions for financial support for the leisure activities of vulnerable children and that this support reaches all children who need it and for more than one season. We fully share the intention behind the motion for a resolution, namely to encourage more children and young people to participate in leisure activities and to ensure that all young people have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities. We also fully agree with the proposers that meaningful leisure activities are essential for children and young people in relation to joining communities and for their overall well-being. Furthermore, we are deeply concerned, like the authors of the motion, about the growing distrust that we see among our children and young people; more and more young people are lonely, stressed and depressed, and there is a rapid increase in the number of children and young people who have real psychiatric diagnoses. In fact, we have convened both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Health in consultation on precisely the problem that more and more children are getting a psychiatric diagnosis. If we cannot then support the proposal in the form it is now before us, it is about the financing and administration of the funds. We do not want to allocate money to another pool, which can be sought by the municipalities, with administrative costs and bureaucracy. If we are to set aside money for this, it must be for permanent and permanent means of ensuring a continuous social investment in our children and young people. We want to ensure that more children can participate in leisure activities, and it should not be the economy of the family that is crucial for this to happen. We have introduced it as an opportunity in the Service Act and, as the Minister said, it is part of an early and preventive effort that municipalities can provide support for leisure activities through Section 11 of the Service Act to children who need it, and it may not be used sufficiently. We would like to contribute to discussing how we can ensure that children actually benefit from the support for leisure activities that are not being used sufficiently at this stage. However, in the present form we are not voting for the proposal, but we are happy to take part in the discussions on making an offer for children and young people better than what we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143115	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143120	I would just like to say that I am very, very enthusiastic about the rapporteur's speech. I am also very pleased and satisfied that the rapporteur can see and the rapporteur's party can see that there is a need for a better framework and for making sure that it reaches all children, because that is the point of this proposal. After all, it is not always the most economically disadvantaged who do not engage in leisure activities. It is therefore our wish that there should be a better structure for this and that we should ensure that all children have an opportunity for leisure activities. The fact that we do not agree with our specific approach is something that I can live with, because it is just a proposal. There we can easily work out something with even more possibilities, as the Minister mentioned. We would very much like to discuss this. So I would actually just like to acknowledge and thank the rapporteur for his position on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143228	Thank you very much for the words of appreciation. I should just like to say that, of course, I share the view that it is not in all cases that there is a social battle side. But I would just like to point out that the study which has just been presented on the whole of the music school area shows with all due clarity that there is a great social battle in that very area. So we should not overlook the fact that there is also a social problem. I think that should certainly be taken into account in the discussion of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143307	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143316	Living an active life, of which cultural activities, exercise and sport are part, I have no doubt that contributes to a good and meaningful life. Gathering together together together in cultural and sporting communities has several derived and positive side benefits, primarily social and health. Therefore, there has been a focus on this for several years at national level, often in several ministerial areas and with different approaches. This may be the health aspect, in relation to e.g. to combat overweight and reduce mental distrust, and a social focus on the fact that vulnerable people can become involved in association, but also in other things. It can, for example, be done. be such things as street sports, homeless sport and activities for children and young people living in parallel societies. In the field of culture, the focus has been on supporting sports organisations' work with young people in exposure and dissatisfaction, and on working with music schools' offers and leisure passes as financial support. And in the field of education, the reform of primary schools can be mentioned; here the increased physical activity should help to inspire the student to become more active in his spare time. Some interventions have been interdisciplinary, and further work can be done to optimize this. We in the Danish People's Party feel that this is a good thing. It is funds that have been given in several rounds, often via the rate pool. I would like to make it clear that the Danish People's Party is very concerned about helping young people and children to have an active life with increased quality of life. We have done this every year through the rate pool • smaller initiatives in purely economic terms, but initiatives that help make a difference. At local level, work has also been done on the area. Some municipalities approach it more preventively than others. It is surprising that not all municipalities can see the prevention in it; it also mentions the proposers. And I also believe that this is probably the way to go, so that more uniform offers can be ensured in all the municipalities in the country. We also want to make a comment on the economy in the proposal. The Danish People's Party does not want to increase taxes on tobacco products. In addition, it is a challenge for each municipality that they can apply for 50,000 DKK. It is an amount which is relatively low, and whatever its size, it requires a large administration, which we will certainly be able to face in terms of cutting down on the money that finally comes out, and that will not be good. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal as it stands here. However, I would like to make it clear that the Danish People's Party wants the focus to be on the group mentioned in the proposal, namely children and young people, regardless of their social and economic background, who are distracted by a displeasure, which among other things. may be caused by anxiety, depression, and stress. This must be taken seriously, and that is why I believe that, as we have been doing for several years and broadly politically, we must continue to focus on it. I can then mention, as the Minister referred to the BROEN, that the voluntary association BROEN is actually a fantastic asset in my own municipality. They help about 125 people, and we support them, among others. through Article 18 funds. Then I would like to call on the municipalities to look at the opportunities they have. As far as we are concerned, I can at least say that we were able to see for a budgetary procedure that there were many children and young people, for example. had to go on vacation, and who were at a disadvantage, went in and got a pool of DKK 300,000. In other words, I would like to call on the local authorities to make greater efforts to ensure that, among other things, there is greater involvement of the local authorities. is addressed and focused on this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143644	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143646	Thank you also for a very positive and appreciative speech from the rapporteur. The rapporteur himself also mentioned that there is a great deal of variation in what is being done, and the proposal has not been put forward to deny that there are a great many associations and also very many municipalities that do something about it here and have leisure facilities etc. But it's still gone according to the numbers I have, i.e. 14 percent. of children who do not participate in leisure activities at all. So do I understand that the rapporteur also recognises that a more general perspective is needed from in here, in which we ensure that all children have access to leisure activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143734	Yes, it must be interpreted in this way, and it is also an invitation, as I say, to the municipalities that they must also take responsibility. What has just been a problem many times, when you look at these small pools, is that some municipalities have been a little creative, and then they say that you can just use them to close a hole. And then you give some money, and then you close a hole somewhere else. But overall I think you should look at it, among other things. the problem of seeing a great many children and young people with obesity. That's where this can be, among other things. help solve it. So yes, we'd like to take a very general look at it. But we're just afraid of it in connection with something like pools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143803	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504143810	Thank you. I would actually like to start by saying that we in the Left share the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution. In the Left we are extremely concerned about the trend we see, because a great many children and young people do not thrive well enough. That is also one of the points I have made myself on several occasions. We are concerned that so many children and young people and indeed adult people are burning out and feeling stressed, and we are concerned that very many young people are struggling with both anxiety and depression. It also worries us that, for that matter, young people feel less worth, are dependent on social media and do not think they can keep up with the online world they are part of. It also worries us that young people experience poor self-esteem and that they are lonely, for that certainly reduces their lives. These are all problems that I think we must also take seriously. In fact, I have to say that the problem in our society, with mental dissatisfaction among children and young people, may be one of the greatest challenges we face in these years, as has been said in the past. Because if we do not thrive, whether we are children or we are adults, and if we do not feel that we can be in our own lives, then there is a risk that, at worst, young people will start to cut themselves or, at worst, will from here. So our well-being is simply in every possible way a prerequisite for our being able to function, whether it is in educational contexts or for that matter in the labour market. So I can only fully agree with the points made by the proposers. But I must nevertheless disappoint the authors of the motion for a resolution and say that we will be voting against the resolution as it is today and that it is due to several things. This is partly due to the fact that, as has already been said, we already have arrangements which will enable the municipalities to make efforts in this area. This is due, among other things, to: also that we have already implemented several different experimental schemes, including the system of economic clip cards for leisure activities. In addition, we believe that the very thing that makes small pools is often eaten up in administrative costs for the municipalities, and I think it is even more important to stick to ensuring that when we find money, they also have to be used in the best possible way. With this, as rapporteur for both children and education in the Left, I must say that I am continuing to fight for this agenda, because I believe it is important and that we also have a responsibility to try to find solutions. Unfortunately, however, the Left will not support the resolution. I welcome the Conservatives and, I believe, the Liberal Alliance, which will probably not make it back, and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144151	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144155	Thank you for a positive speech by the rapporteur, if you can put it that way. This is not, of course, a positive issue, and I have also noticed that the rapporteur, together with the former Minister of Education, was out to comment that unfortunately young people do not thrive. Should I understand the rapporteur's view that it is the solution that I am forced to make a proposal for, because when it is a motion for a resolution that is the solution itself, which is actually intended as an attempt to get evidence that it actually helps with leisure activities, and that the idea of making this proposal was that we had some evidence that leisure activities work so that we could roll it out more? And I know there have been attempts. But am I to understand that the rapporteur is in favour of us doing something and that the rapporteur recognises that there is a great deal of variation in individual municipalities and in what is being offered to children around Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144303	The alternative rapporteur must understand this in that I clearly recognise that there is a problem and that I also think that we have a responsibility to look at this and how we can hopefully find better solutions. Having said that, I do not think that the solution here is the right way to go. I personally believe that there may be many different reasons why we have a situation where, unfortunately, so many young people are hanging on the edge and getting sick, and I recognise that leisure and active activity can be one of the ways. But I think there may be several different ways we have to go to take care of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144354	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144355	I think this is the first time that I am very pleased that the rapporteurs will not accept the motion for a resolution I have proposed in the Assembly. Because what I am hearing from both the Minister and the rapporteur from the Left is that you actually want to go further and not just look at a pool, but lift it up and look at it from a wider perspective, and I can only be satisfied with that. Because that is what we really hope for and want. So I understand the rapporteur and I understood the Minister as well, but the rapporteur can then tell me if I have understood correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144435	At any rate, I can tell the rapporteur that this area is one of the things that I think is really, really important and, as I said in my speech, it is also one of the things that we in the Left believe to be incredibly important that we get to grips with in some way. That is why I can also say that among other things. The statement I made with Mr. Søren Pind, was someone I meant from the heart, and then of course it also obliges to try to do something about it afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144511	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144518	In the Enhedslisten we think it is a very sympathetic proposal that the alternative has put forward. We agree with the proposalers' wish and intention to ensure that all children and young people are given equal opportunities to participate in cultural and sporting leisure activities. We read that it should be very well documented that regular participation in leisure activities has a positive effect on the well-being of children, and with the very large number of children we are experiencing today having stress in their daily lives, there is clearly a need for initiatives that can address that problem, including, among other things, the need for initiatives. What is pointed out here is that a relatively large group of young people do not participate in leisure activities. Not least, I find it worrying that there are supposedly thousands of children who are prevented from taking part in leisure activities because their parents cannot afford to pay for their children's participation. We also think that parts of the construction are very sensible. We think it is a good idea to introduce cutting-card schemes for leisure activities. We have also seen various variants of this proposal in this Chamber in the past. We've seen it around the municipalities. The Enhedslisten has not recently made this proposal in this Chamber, but I have noted that among other things. The SF has put it forward. Enhedslisten has put it around the municipalities. I think it can be a very sensible model for us to have a cutting-edge card system in this way that gives access to a very wide range of activities, also so that the young person can have the opportunity to try whether that is it, that or this, which could be something that particularly appeals to him or her? We think this is a sensible model. On the other hand, I'm a little worried about the construction of pools. I would not rule out the need to use pools during a trial period in order to gain experience. I have also heard other rapporteurs and the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution reflect on this. I think that is sensible enough, but in general we can be concerned about such pool designs, and we would really like it to be possible in the municipalities in general to operate with such a model. There are plenty of young people who are very targeted and who know what they want in their spare time. They are quick to decide for themselves what leisure activity they want, while others should be able to test themselves out. As I said, we're a little skeptical about the pool design. Then I would like to say that I agree with the remarks made by some rapporteurs that it is not a very large amount of money that is being proposed. With 6 million. kr. We won't get far. It is not that we want everything to be maximized. It should not be understood that way, although I knew that the Minister would think that we have that view, but we do not. However, I note that the last time the proposal was put forward, there was a proposal to allocate 50 to 70 million. kr. This is not a mantra for us, but I am afraid that the pot can also be so limited when it has to be shared between 98 municipalities that it does not get enough impact. So it is not because we just think that we should spend 20 million. kr. or 25 million kr. extra. That's not my business at all, but I think we can risk this getting too small. So the short of the long is that we really like the intention. We're gonna take a look at this. We think we should consider very carefully, if we have a pool structure, whether it ensures what the rapporteur for the proposers has already said, namely that we can derive some experience so that we can generalise it. And then we think that if we're gonna do this, we're gonna have to add a little bit. We do not have any special proposals. I'll leave that to others. It may be that the Minister will bid. I could almost see that from the Minister's mimik. But we think it is simply too modest, with 6 million. kr., that it can really be punchy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144948	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504144950	Thank you. I would like to make it clear that we are also far more ambitious than the specific proposal that lies here. The idea was also that it was a number of municipalities that could apply. It was not the case that it should be distributed across all municipalities, because then I realize that it is very little money that would then be for each. So it was supposed to be a number of municipalities so that one could derive some of the experience and make some evidence. What I also hear from the rapporteur is that it would be good to collect the knowledge that exists from the municipalities and find out what the best solutions are and how we can support it from the centre. I would be delighted if the government could find, as we saw with the bill of dignity, a billionaire for children and young people, that is to say, to make an effort, because after all, it is they who have to live on in this society. It would be great to knock out your arms a little and say that it should be a huge field of action. I can hear that from the rapporteurs in this Chamber, and I am very pleased that there is agreement on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504145059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504145100	I hear we're pretty much in agreement on this approach. In other words, it should make sense to allocate such a smaller pool, it must be on an experimental basis in order to derive some experience. This could also be done without the large pool funds. I think it is a very good idea, as the proposer points out, to look at what we have of concrete experiences in the municipalities. What has been invented once does not necessarily require us to make great efforts to reinvent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504145131	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504145139	Thank you. A great many good words have been said on the issue of mental health, which the Radical Left can endorse. Our health rapporteur, Mrs Lotte Rod, who is on maternity leave right now, also worked on the possibilities of using mindfulness more specifically in connection with the rate pool negotiations last autumn. I would also like to point out that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party pointed out that the municipalities have the opportunity to go into this in many different ways, and they should do so in my view, because they also have a responsibility for the well-being of their municipality. However, what I would like to emphasise, apart from the fact that we support in principle the fact that we find good solutions to the problem raised by the resolution, is that I think we should also focus very much on holding a hearing if it is the right forum, but that can be considered after the summer recess. We're gonna try to figure out what's behind the exits that's happening. I'm sorry that I'm now using an obsessive formulation, but when I was a child, there was no stress and depression and anxiety in the child group as such, it was very special if there was. There have been some major changes in our society, which make us get these results, and I think it is deeply unsatisfactory that we have a society that really produces ills. Therefore, we should also make efforts to try to get a better understanding of what the cause is and then try to eliminate those causes. But before that happens, we must of course help those children who have a problem. That is why, in principle, we are in favour of trying, but, as previous rapporteurs have said, I am concerned about the way in which it is financed here. So we cannot just buy it here, and we have no offer at this stage, other than constructively going out and trying to make the municipalities aware that they should take this issue seriously. We would like to contribute to that. And then I would refer to what was started last autumn through our participation in the bet pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504145355	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a new rapporteur: Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504145400	In the SF, we fully agree with the premise underlying this motion for a resolution. There is a need for increased focus on the well-being of children and young people, and this has also been confirmed by all the rapporteurs in the Chamber today. And it is good that we have that starting point in common. Too many children and young people today experience mental health problems such as stress, anxiety and depression, and this is a challenge that we must take seriously, first and foremost for the sake of children and young people, but also for the sake of society. We therefore also have sympathy for the proposal put forward by the alternative here today. It has been put forward on the basis of sad and alarming developments and with a really fine and good intention. Children and young people with evil in life need meaningful communities and relationships. We are in complete agreement on this. Nevertheless, we are not entirely convinced that the proposed clipboard pool for recreational activities is the most feasible solution, first and foremost because we find it a little difficult to find out who the real target group for the proposed clipboard is. As described in the proposal, the cutting card should target children and young people aged 3-18 years, regardless of the income of their parents. We believe that this is a very broad target group and it is rather unclear whether certain criteria should be applied in order to receive the rock map for leisure activities or whether it is a rock map for everyone. And if so, what are the criteria? And should the rock map target a more specific target group? Later in the comments it says that the clip card must help to support children getting started with leisure opportunities and that parents can receive financial assistance and guidance on leisure opportunities. However, when the rock map is to be allocated at the same time regardless of the income of the parents, there is a risk that the rock map will not really help those who might most need it. In our optics, it always makes sense to target interventions and make offers that can support families with economic challenges. It is a fundamental question of ensuring that everyone has the opportunity to go to football in the local association, to receive musical education, which in parentheses noted is one of the most expensive leisure opportunities and therefore also where there really is a social battle side, or otherwise to participate in leisure activities on an equal footing with other children and young people. Unfortunately, this challenge of inequality does not address the proposal sufficiently in our view. At the same time, even in the comments on the proposal, the proposers themselves mention that there are already many targeted activities for socially vulnerable children and young people in the municipalities. This also naturally raises the question of what the function of the proposed rock card should be. In the SF we have great sympathy for the approach and ideas underlying the proposal, and it is good that we have the opportunity to discuss how to better support the well-being of children and young people. That is why I thought, when I listened to the debate, that we would at least like to see a report being drawn up to collect what has been said here, namely that leisure activities should be a completely natural part of the solution when we are concerned about children and young people's dissatisfaction. So when we get started on the work that I hope the government is taking the initiative for and we could at least address that in a report that we expect them to do so in dealing with children and young people's distrust, leisure activities should be included as an element in it. Because part of the good life is just part of participating in fellowship with others and doing something you want to do just because you want to do it. I think the authors of the motion are very much in agreement with that, so it is also part of this trying to give some value to some of the activities that children and young people are doing just for pleasure. So if we could try to get together on something that somehow obliges the parties of the Folketing and the government to take leisure activities very seriously, we will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504145837	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504145848	Thank you for all the very fine comments and rapporteur speeches. Last week we had a motion for a resolution in the House to raise the tax on cigarettes. It was an attempt to set an agenda on children and young people's health and health. Today we have tried to set an agenda on children and young people's mental well-being and health, and I think we have done the same today. I think it has been a real, really constructive and positive debate that we have had today. After all, as several people have said, children and young people in Denmark are miserable, and it has been established that they are not particularly vulnerable children, because the children of the middle class are also miserable. That is what we have been trying to write our way out of this proposal by saying: we have some schemes for socially vulnerable people, and it may be that they are sporadic and that we have to get them together, but we sometimes overlook the group that does not actually thrive and that does not necessarily live in socially vulnerable families. That is why the proposal has been tried in a way that is aimed at all young people. As we have also heard today, it is 1 in 5 aged 10-24 who often feel stressed and up to 8 per cent feel stressed daily. Many children and young people feel that they do not experience mental health. 8.5% by young men and 10.3% by young men. of women aged between 16 and 24 experience that they are often lonely. There are very many figures showing that it is across groups, across socio-economic boundaries, that children and young people do not have a high enough life satisfaction, and that there is a decline in life satisfaction among Danish children and young people. That is really bad news, and that is why we have put forward this proposal for discussion today. We have, for example. seen in Iceland, and we have also seen from studies carried out in Denmark that leisure activities have a very positive impact on the well-being of children and young people. Several of us may know what is called the ABC for mental well-being, which is based on what is called Act-Belong-Commit, from Australia, where it has been proved that getting up in the morning with the sense of meaningfulness and purpose, the feeling that you contribute to and are part of a community, is crucial to whether you feel mentally healthy. And it is through the activities and through the community that we can improve the mental health of children and young people. That is why we believe, as the proposal says, that we can use the experience of Iceland, which has actually been able to improve mental health in a fairly short period of time and have alcohol consumption and the consumption of cigarettes and drugs, etc. Significantly down. After all, the use of alcohol, smoking and hashish by young people has been reduced by 50%. 8 years of age by taking action by e.g. offer all children to participate in leisure activities. And part of it was the recreational clipboard. I am pleased that this is actually the way I hear it... that all rapporteurs are interested in bringing the resolution into a slightly larger framework where we are discussing it at a slightly more general level. I think it was a very good proposal that the SF rapporteur had to make a report and emphasise that leisure activities are extremely important when we are going to work with children and young people's mental health and that it will be part of what we are working with, hopefully through a plan for making children and young people better mental health. So I am actually pleased that the rapporteurs were not interested in putting together a pool, although that is what we proposed, because it has proved to be much more positive what the rapporteur was interested in, including the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, namely that we are lifting it up and looking at it more generally. As the Social Democratic rapporteur also pointed out, there is a need to stick to what is going on in the municipalities, what we can learn from what is good experience in the municipalities and how we can ensure that all children in Denmark benefit from the experience they have gained in the different municipalities. So I would like to thank you for a really, really positive and constructive debate, which I think is good to go home on a Friday afternoon. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150414	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150416	Thank you. In fact, I would just like to ask such a clarification, which was also part of what I was trying to say in my rapporteur's speech. Because it is true that distrust exists in all layers, but I just have to understand: is it the case that the proposal is intended to give all children a rock card? Or who did it think of?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150445	The proposal is intended for this, I think, also says that children who do not go to leisure activities will have the opportunity to go to leisure activities. There are some children who do not have parents who may just think that this is the most important thing for them, and it does not have to be something that depends on their finances, and that is also why the proposal says that guidance and advice must be brought in, so that there is some support. So that's what's in mind. But I don't think there's any reason to discuss it, because you've kind of poured my proposal to make a pool down the board, and I think that's fine. Because I think what we are doing here today is getting closer and smarter and finding out what will be the best model. So what I want to draw from today's debate is that there is a need to collect what is of good experience in the municipalities and how we get it offered to all the children we have in Denmark, because we know that leisure activities are incredibly important and that it comes into a plan for children and young people's mental well-being and health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150551	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150555	I would also like to thank the rapporteur. This is an area on which a great deal of attention must be paid, and what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur knows the organisation called the Bridge. For what is also interesting in relation to the Bridge is that the people who are behind it take the young person by hand and make sure that he is helped. So I just wanted to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of the organisation called the Bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150619	Yeah, I'm familiar with the organization called the Bridge. I am aware of many organisations, fortunately, including civil society organisations, which help children and young people, for example. Headspace and others. It is so more something with peer to peer and not always so much something with leisure activities. But that is also why I say that I think we need to gather good experiences, for example. from the Bridge, asking what they have been able to offer and how we pass this on to all municipalities and all children throughout Denmark, so that all children will enjoy leisure activities and we will have a look at all children's mental health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150703	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150703-2	Yes, because what I think is important, as the rapporteur says, is that we get hold of the organisations and their experiences and other things and go in and look at what might be missing from the municipalities and then get invited in with it. Because it will be a shame if there are well-established things that work, and then we try to bring something on top. So that is the way I can hear the rapporteur interpret it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150724-2	I fully agree with that. It is also my conclusion today that what we need is to gather the good experiences from, for example, the United Kingdom. The bridge and other organisations working with this, but also from municipalities, including what they have done with really good experiences, what works and what doesn't work, and how we get hold of all children, so that all children will thrive and get started with some leisure activities. So, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150756	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180504150810	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 8 May 2018, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website and will refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear there.
