ParlaMint-DK_20180223100023	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 76 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the provisions on racism of the penal code). Marianne Jelved (RV), Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil (S), Pernille Skipper (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 77 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution clarifying the principle of parental involvement in cases of special support for children and young people subject to extreme social control). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100105	The debate is open. Sir. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100123	Bill No. L 139 is a legislative proposal to ensure network information systems. The bill implements those parts of the EU directive on measures to ensure a high common level of security against attacks on network and information systems across the EU, which fall within the Ministry of Defence. The aim is to address the growing threat that exists today, which will be there in the future, to network and information systems from all over the world. The safety requirements shall include operators and providers who shall take the necessary measures to prevent attacks from taking place. We know that there are trials every day somewhere out of the world where the information is available online. Who doesn't remember how it went terribly wrong when Mærsk was hacked and laid down not so long ago? It took several days before they could work again, and it cost over 1 billion. kr. So it is a very good idea for us to stand together throughout the European Union to secure ourselves against attacks that happen every day and will happen in the future. It is not only in the field of defence that this happens, but in many other areas of society that are failing, because more is being managed via the Internet and more and more information is being posted on the Internet now and in the future. The NIS directive, as it says, is not only implemented in the field of defence. There is also an implementation in other ministries and in areas where information plays an important role for society and for individuals, such as in the energy and transport sectors, the financial sector, for example. the banking sector, the drinking water supply and the digital infrastructure and in the health sector, where we also know that more and more personal data are being recorded. Yes, there is more control on the Internet and more will come in the future. It must all be phased in on 10 May, and with all the systems we control the world today, it is important that we do everything we can to prevent the wrong people from entering the systems. That is why it is also important that we work together in the European Union to prevent it. That is why we agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100404	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100418	Thank you. This bill is about improving the security of network and information systems. It is an implementation of the EU's so-called NIS directive, which is implemented separately in each sector of society. This bill is in force in the field of defence. The bill strengthens Centre for Cybersecurity's competences and responsibilities. L 139 to develop legislation adopted in this field. The Cyber area has become an important security area because our society is becoming increasingly vulnerable to crashes in our digital networks. Therefore, the Danish People's Party considers a special strengthening of our cybersecurity to be timely care. We therefore support L 139 and look forward to the further action in this area that we have agreed in the recent defence settlement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100510	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100517	Thank you. The Left's usual rapporteur in this area, Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, unfortunately, could not be here today, which is why I have promised on behalf of the Left to give our clear support to this proposal. As both the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, but also the rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, it is the implementation of an EU directive, the so-called NIS directive. In view of the recent disclosure of the attack on Mærsk and others, there is no doubt that there is at least a great, great need for a priority. Alongside the recently concluded defence settlement, where we fortunately prioritised the entire cyber defence, it is only very good that we now also go in and look at what we can do to secure the vital infrastructure, not least the vital infrastructure of large companies, in the energy sector, etc. That is why it is good to be well prepared, not least when we have such a serious threat to Denmark that we have unfortunately seen that we have, and that is why we in the Left can clearly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100624	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100638	It is incredibly important that we protect our infrastructure from cyber attacks. That is why it is good that a large number of measures are being taken here. One of the problems with the bill here, as I see it, is that the Centre for Cybersecurity, the authority responsible for coordinating and collecting the information, in Denmark, has been placed under the responsibility of the Defence Intelligence Service. This also means that the authority is likely to be exempt from the general rules on data protection. This is something we are discussing right now, also in connection with the implementation of EU data security legislation in Denmark. I think it is problematic that there is not the same data security that will cover this area and that there is not the same scope for control and insight as there would otherwise be if it had been placed under a civil authority as we believe it should have been. Right now it can be said that it is both here in the Ministry of Defence's area, but also in the area of the Ministry of Transport and Health and the Ministry of Business and Industry, that we are discussing this type of proposal and at the same time also the new data security legislation. I know that many of the other treatments have also raised questions as to whether it is appropriate for the Defence Intelligence Service to be exempted in this way, in particular, the rules on data security. So I hope that this is something that we can have a discussion on in the course of dealing with this bill, because, as I have said, it is absolutely crucial that we can secure our infrastructure in a sensible way against cyberattacks, but there is therefore no reason why we should do so in a way that the authority responsible for it is exempt from these very, very sensible and important provisions, in fact, that data security should be in order and that there should also be the possibility of some sort of control and insight by citizens and authorities. So I can express my support for the intention to strengthen data security, but in relation to the support of the proposal itself, I think that some discussions are going on during the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100903	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223100908	Denmark is one of the most digitised countries in the world, and that gives us a wide range of benefits, which we are very happy about in everyday life. But that makes us quite vulnerable as well. The cyberattack against Mærsk last year has already been mentioned a few times in the debate, and I will also draw on that as an example in my speech. For that is certainly a problem, both socially, but also for A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S as a business, that all their activities remain silent for several days with a billion-dollar loss of revenue. But it is certainly not only private companies that are exposed in these situations when we suddenly experience foreign powers or groupings directing attacks on Denmark and Danish interests. So we definitely have to secure all parts of society and that every part of society is geared to dealing with these new threats. As mentioned earlier in the debate, the NIS directive, which the draft law here has to implement, embraces a number of ministries' areas, and now the trip has come to the Ministry of Defence. The bill enhances cybersecurity by imposing a number of requirements on operators of essential Internet exchange points. What I am particularly concerned about here and the draft law is that it follows the government's basic principle of minimum implementation and will not impose unnecessary burdens on business. And that's why the Liberal Alliance can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101053	Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101100	Thank you. After all, the NIS directive has already been discussed in this House in other areas of concern, and I would like to reiterate that, of course, we in the alternative think it is a very good directive because it strengthens European security. We just believe that the implementation proposed by the government is problematic, and it is, of course, a question of making the Cybersecurity Centre the central contact point and the central emergency unit to deal with these IT incidents. This is problematic because the Centre for Cybersecurity is exempt, among other things. The disclosure law, the personal data law and central parts of the administrative law, and thus it becomes a rather closed country, and we are therefore concerned that the security of citizens' data is being properly enforced. The fact that the NIS directive actually requires it to comply with the Data Protection Directive becomes more problematic. And by transferring this task to the Center for Cybersecurity and thus the Defense Intelligence, we don't think it meets those requirements. So we look forward to discussing the implementation of the directive in committee and, in particular, to taking in the many consultation responses and discussing how we can get it implemented properly so that it meets the built-in requirements that are actually in the directive, that it also has to comply with the data protection directive, so that we have that security for citizens' personal data.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101233	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101240	Cybersecurity or lack of the same is one of the brand new security threats that fills a lot on the parliamentary agenda, which fills a lot in the individual ministries and which is a threat we will have to take seriously, whether we are talking about direct hacking attacks on critical infrastructure in Denmark, attacks on Danish companies or authorities, or massive propaganda from extremists or hostile states. It is therefore quite obvious that a digitalised country such as Denmark will have to take it very seriously and will have to step up its efforts, and therefore the Radical Left NIS directive, which is what we are discussing today, welcomes. The European Union is trying here to strengthen cooperation between the European countries, and although we are unfortunately not in Europol and therefore do not have as strong cooperation in the field of police cooperation as we could have, it is good that there are parts of this that we can still be involved in and in which the Radical Left in any case strongly supports our participation. Then the actual implementation of this raises a number of questions for us, and I hope that it will be possible to clarify them in the work of the committee. It is true, as several speakers have said, that a significant amount of money has been allocated to strengthen cybersecurity, among other things. Because we have fought radically for it and we are pleased about it. This also means that the Defence and Defence Intelligence Service will have a very central role to play in coordinating this at national level. The question is • and there we have the challenge that we do not yet know the government's own national strategy for cybersecurity • which authority in Denmark it is that should have the overall responsibility for both coordinating between the different ministries and authorities in Denmark and with private business, who should set the standards, who should have the overall supervision. That is one of the things this directive comes close to, because it is also necessary to identify a national central hub, an emergency unit, which must do so here. It is very similar to such a coordinating unit, which has also been discussed in connection with the government's forthcoming cybersecurity strategy. We believe that the Cybersecurity Centre is doing an excellent job and we also believe that they will be able to deliver even better work on the new appropriations that have just been agreed in the defence settlement. However, it is clear that there are parts of the cyber security area including the whole of the national territory; extremist propaganda; common criminals who are in Denmark; attacks on Danish companies that are not naturally equal to the Defense. It is also clear that there, as among others. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned some legal issues that might make it possible to consider whether the Centre for Cybersecurity should then lie directly under the Defence Intelligence Service or might be better placed to act as its own entity, have more free and transparent and open cooperation with companies and be under the same kind of data security protection as all other normal Danish authorities are. The disadvantage of that model is, of course, that there are some after-business information that you do not get automatically from the Defence Intelligence Service and therefore cannot share with others in other countries. So there are pros and cons of both models, but I think we should carefully assess whether it would not be advantageous to make the Centre for Cybersecurity a slightly more independent size and one that would be a little easier to cooperate openly both with other authorities and with other actors in Danish society. This is one of the things we would ask the Minister to consider, since we can, of course, support Denmark in implementing this directive and therefore also the legislative proposal as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101650	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101653	Those were some very good considerations that came from Mr. Martin Lidegaard. But I just have one question. Does the Radical Left believe that this bill is part of the defence agreement, or rather about the actions that may be taken here, is conciliation and must be discussed in the conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101718	Well, not directly. This is, of course, the implementation of a European directive, and I believe that all parties can participate fully in this, and I do not believe that any of the parties involved in the defence settlement have a monopoly or right of veto in this way. However, it is clear that there is a very, very close link between what is adopted with this bill and the framework for the implementation and use of the funds we have decided in the defence settlement. And that's conciliation. We have to agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101748	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101750	Thank you. When I ask, it's because when you're in a settlement, you're one for everyone and everyone for you, right? And that is why it is a little interesting to find out if there are any movement possibilities for those parties in the defence circle in relation to a bill like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101811-2	I do not know whether the Minister shares my opinion, but my own view is that this is not an explicit part of the defence settlement, but that the implementation of this will involve part of the funds that we agreed on in the defence settlement. And so it can be said that we will not have such a legal direct influence on the legislative proposal or will be able to veto it if we have a wish for it and we do not have it either. But, of course, we will have a very great influence on how we use the funds that we have agreed to allocate, among other things. in order to implement this directive effectively, as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101843	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223101900	I agree with the rapporteurs who have pointed out that the area we are discussing is an extremely important area. This is one of the most important areas of security policy that we have in Denmark, but also elsewhere in the world. That is why it is very good that all cybersecurity has been prioritised in the defence committee. There are other things in the settlement that we are not entirely satisfied with, but in this area we actually think it is good that the Danish side is beginning to spend more resources on cybersecurity. The real question is whether you use enough, because it is an enormous area and it is an area of growth. This bill, which is, after all, an implementation of the so-called NIS directive from the European Union, includes, as others have also mentioned, not only defence but also, among other things, defence. Health and transport, and this has also been discussed by other rapporteurs during the week. That is why, in a sense, we also have to see it in conjunction with each other. Then I think it is worth reading the consultation answer that has come from Dansk Energi, because they attach great importance to that. I very much agree with them that this comes in at a time when there is great ambiguity about the overall coordination of the entire cyber area. It was sir. Martin Lidegaard also mentioned. Who's in charge of the coordination in this country of all cybersecurity? Formally, the so-called cyberstrategy lies with me in the Modernisation Authority, in other words, it is the Minister of Modernisation who is formally responsible for this area, but she has a lot to do at the moment, to put it mildly, and the question is whether it is appropriate. There is simply a lack of a completely coherent strategy on how we deal with this important area. It's not there at the moment. That is to say, it is a bit bit by bit that you change things, that you give powers in this case to the Cybersecurity Centre, without there being a very clear clarification and demarcation of what the different authorities have to do in different situations etc. So I think that is an overall problem, and I would like to hear the Minister's comments on this, i.e. whether it is not a little inappropriate that we should start with this excellent directive without having any assurance as to how this whole area should be coordinated. Then I also agree with those who have expressed concerns about the fact that it is the Defence Intelligence Service that stands as the ones who coordinate the area. There may be arguments and arguments against that, I agree, but again I would like to refer to Danish Energy, which has some arguments against it being FE, among other things. that it may limit the amount of information to be provided, because the FE is not covered by the Personal Data Act, is not covered by the Public Access Act, etc. This means that there are some very specific challenges in that it is the FE that is responsible for this task. But we also need to discuss this in greater detail, in other words how we are going to deal with this area. Should it be under the control of the FE with the limitations that are in it, and perhaps also with the benefits that may be, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard was so really talking about? We haven't had that discussion, and I think that is actually a problem, namely that we are making a number of different approaches without having a completely coherent discussion about how we deal with this huge area of ^ and enormously important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223102302	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223102318	After all, the bill here is about securing Denmark and Danish Internet against foreign hacker attacks. It is often heard that there is a great cyber threat to Denmark. It is, in fact, an undervaluation of the situation. The thing is, there's not just a threat, but there's an attack already under way. There have already been many examples of foreign hackers hacking into Danish companies and even in Danish defences and many other places. After all, this is a major problem because so much of society gradually depends on proper online security. There are large parts of Denmark that can be put down if we do not have proper network security. This bill then tries to make sure we get that. On the one hand, it is an EU directive, so we do not have so much a choice, in terms of whether we want to implement it or not; one can say that this is the first good reason why we should do so. On the one hand, it is also a very good idea for us to do so. With the bill, the authority known as the Center for Cybersecurity, which is under Defence, under Defence Intelligence, will be entitled to set standards of security at Internet development points in order to make demands on companies that have such Internet development points. Of course, it is not very detailed in the draft law what kind of demands it is. Nor do I think I would feel safe enough and knowledgeable enough to be able to determine what the requirements would be. I think it is reasonable enough for us here to have an authority with competence which will then have the right to determine what the requirements should be. At any rate, we have enough confidence that the Defence Intelligence Agency and the Cybersecurity Centre in particular can carry out this task, and we are therefore going to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223102521	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223102531	I would like to start by thanking you for the speeches you have made during the debate and thanking you for the support that has been given to the draft law, although there have been various comments which we will, of course, be considering during the committee's reading. After all, this bill is about Internet exchange points, and the definition of an Internet exchange point, also known as an IXP, is quite technical. The NIS Directive defines an Internet exchange point as a network facility enabling the interconnection of more than two independent autonomous systems, mainly with a view to facilitating the exchange of Internet traffic. To put it mildly, an Internet exchange point is a company or part of a company that provides for the exchange of Internet traffic between different ISPs. The draft law provides for rules on information security for the essential Internet exchange points. There are only a few Internet exchange points in Denmark, and at this stage it is estimated that there will be few or none of them that are so large that they can be classified as significant. Then Eva Flyvholm, Holger K. Nielsen and Martin Lidegaard raised the question of the location in the Center for Cybersecurity, which, as you know, is part of the Defence Intelligence Service. The Centre is already a national IT security authority. This means, inter alia, that the Centre advises and informs about cybersecurity, and the function of national contact point lies in the natural extension of these tasks. The IT preparedness function under the NIS Directive also has a close connection with the Centre for Cybersecurity's existing task, including: on information security in the telecommunications sector. The Cybersecurity Centre therefore already possesses many of the skills needed for example. to be able to alert the sectors and respond to events, and the centre will also be able to operate around the clock. So the function as an IT emergency unit is also a natural extension of the Centre's existing tasks. Then Eva Flyvholm raised the question of the Personal Data Act. In Denmark, the Data Protection Directive has been implemented by the Personal Data Act. The Cybersecurity Centre, which, as you know, is part of the Defence Intelligence Service, is therefore exempt from the Personal Data Act. This also applies to the Centre's future functions under the NIS Directive. However, I would like to emphasise that most of the core principles of the Personal Data Act apply to the Centre. It is merely regulated in the Special Law on Center for Cybersecurity and not in the Personal Data Act. The difference is that compared to the centre, for example. This is not the obligation to provide information, the right of access and the right to object under the Personal Data Act, but it has not been a problem in the past either, as the centre in the role of supervisory authority rarely processes sensitive personal data, but primarily purely technical information. I would also like to stress that the amount of personal data to be processed as a result of this bill will be very, very limited. It will only be relevant for the Cybersecurity Centre to receive personal data in connection with the Centre receiving notifications of incidents from authorities and companies, and those personal data will, as a rule, consist only of the name of the sender of the notification. In addition, an incident notification will typically contain quite factual information about the event, e.g.: the time of the incident and the system that has been affected. It is certainly not the intention that notifications should contain any sensitive personal data. In addition, however, it is important to be aware that a wide range of data protection rules apply to the Cybersecurity Centre. They are simply not included in the Personal Data Act, but are incorporated into the Cybersecurity Center Act. Holger K. Nielsen then raised the question of some consultation answers that have been given. Of course, it always makes an impression when collaborators express criticism, and of course it has to be taken seriously, and I know that the Cybersecurity Centre does that in this case too. Some of the criticism goes beyond the goal; the Centre for Cybersecurity already has similar functions in the telecommunications sector. So I see it as quite natural and the most efficient use of resources that the new tasks are also placed in the centre, and I have no doubt that the Centre will also carry out these tasks fully. Specifically in relation to the consultation answer given by Dansk Energi, I can add that I am aware that the Centre for Cybersecurity has had a good and positive dialogue with Dansk Energi as a follow-up to the organisation's consultation response, and the two organisations have agreed to strengthen both the daily and the longer-term cooperation. But these will, of course, be issues that we can raise and deal with during the committee procedure, and I would like to thank you for the broad support that exists in relation to the discussion we will then have during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103218	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103223	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for addressing a number of the issues raised in the various rapporteur's speeches. Something to which I did not really hear an answer is this: what is actually required of the NIS directive is that this national centre should comply with the data protection directive. Does the Minister think that by putting it in the Cybersecurity Centre, in other words under the Defence Intelligence Service, we are living up to what the NIS directive says, namely that it must comply with the EU Data Protection Directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103300	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103301	Yes, I think so, and I think I replied that the majority of what is in the Personal Data Act has been incorporated into the legislation of the Centre, that is to say that it is not in the Personal Data Act but is incorporated into the Cybersecurity Center Act. And here it is important to understand that these are technical reports. In other words, on the question of the protection of individuals, I tried to say that the names that exist in these cases are, in fact, on those of some authority that informs the Cybersecurity Centre that there has been some problem with their IT system, and that is not to say personal sensitive information.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103410	It's again, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103411	But with this new role that the Cybersecurity Centre will have with the implementation of the NIS directive in a number of areas, it will be a much larger area to cover. And that is why I think it is interesting and I think that we should also try to look at the written question of whether one of them meets the requirements of the NIS directive that it should comply with the Data Protection Directive. I really think it is an assessment which it would be very necessary to have in committee, i.e. whether we comply with the directive which is directly mentioned in this directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103442	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103443	Of course, we will answer that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103449	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103452	Thanks for the speech. I note that the Minister says that the Defence Intelligence Service and the Centre here are not exactly covered by the Personal Data Act. But it is fortunate that at the moment we are simply processing a new data protection law in the Folketing to replace this personal data law. That is why I think it would be quite obvious now that we have this good opportunity, because things are at the same time, to get to grips with this and to say whether we could not go in and ensure that the Defence Intelligence Service is not exempt from these very sensible data protection rules. Could the Minister not be interested in participating in a dialogue, including with the other parties, if we could not close that gap in the exception there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103545	After all, I do not think that this is a gap in legislation. It is clear that when we talk about an intelligence service, there are things that cannot be made public, there are things that cannot be accessed, but we do have a Control Committee which is dealing with these things. Of course we can debate anything, but I think that what is crucial in this matter is that the Cybersecurity Centre has these tasks in many cases in advance; that is where the expertise is, and that is why we might as well take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103630	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103632	I have to say that one of the problems here is, in fact, that it is not about the fact that if you include the Cybersecurity Centre and the Defence Intelligence Centre in these rules, then you can't have anything secret anymore. You can do that. But it is of course a question of the fact that right now they are exempt in such a strange way that, for example, they do not. Their day-to-day operation, one might say, is simply not subject to these very, very sensible rules on data security and protection, and I think that is very, very problematic. And I'm definitely interested that we're trying to solve this now that we actually have the opportunity. I am sorry that the Minister is not quite as open to this, because I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Alternative, that, as things stand now, I simply do not believe that we are complying with the rules of the European Union and the intention of the NIS directive to ensure this proper insight and data security.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103731	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103732	However, it is appropriate to be dealt with during the committee procedure, whether we comply with the NIS directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103741	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103744	Thank you. One of the challenges of this is that we don't actually yet know what this new center is going to do exactly. And that's because we lack the overall strategy of the government, so we don't know what you're gonna put in this centre and what you're gonna put in other places, and if this is the center that's gonna get the major national central authority task of coordinating the whole state. Because if it is, there will be a lot of new tasks that we do not know today. Let me just mention the whole coordination of cooperation with the private sector, where there will naturally be a series of personal data of a non-commercial nature, which will then have to be dealt with in a different way because one is in the Defence Intelligence Service. I fully understand that there are also some things that advocate putting it in the defense intelligence service. But what's our challenge is that we don't know exactly what this center is going to do and what's going to be of pros and cons. That is why I have two questions for the Minister: the first is: when will the government's overall strategy be in this area? Because it will be quite important, I think, for the implementation of this directive. Can we have that strategy included in the implementation of the directive? The second question is: can one attempt to make an overview of the advantages and disadvantages of placing this centre inside the Defence Intelligence Service or next to it as a civilian authority under the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103910	The last thing we're gonna deliver is the pros and cons of location. I do not want to be stuck with it, but we are close to the government publishing its IT security strategy, and I think it is in March that that strategy will be presented. It is possible, it will be at the beginning of April, I know, but I mean, it's close. And that is why it is going to fall within the time frame in which we are dealing with this bill in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103951	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223103952	Thank you for the commitment to answer the second question. However, the question is whether we could perhaps extend the Minister's goodwill to such an extent that we agree that, if I may say so, we will not complete the examination of this bill until we know the strategy to implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104012	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104012-2	Now I do not want to stand by and give guarantees in the areas of other ministers, but I believe that we are close to the government's IT security strategy being presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104025	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104039	The debate is open. And that, sir. the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104107	Thank you, President. Motion for a resolution B 61 proposes that the government should present the necessary legislative proposals and make the necessary administrative changes to ensure that persons working with people with physical or mental impairment must consent to obtaining a certificate showing that they have not been convicted of a breach of a number of specific provisions of the Criminal Code. It is also proposed that the paragraphs which should not have been convicted of a violation should be delimited by negotiation with the parties of the Folketing. The motion for a resolution is inspired by the children's certificates, which it is compulsory to obtain from the employment and employment of persons in certain services under the Service Act and in voluntary social organisations and associations. The government fully agrees with the proposers that it is important to prevent sexual abuse, violence, robbery, thefts and other criminal offences against people with physical or mental impairment. It is simply citizens that we have a responsibility to look after, and the vulnerable citizens, it can be elderly, it can be people with disabilities, and it can be people with mental disorders, are deeply dependent on the help of others in their everyday lives. Therefore, the government will also start by saying that we believe that the concern behind the proposal is both sympathetic and important. However, there are also a number of factors in the specific proposal which make the government unable to support the proposal anyway. First of all, I would like to mention that, as such, we do not have much knowledge of the extent of abuses committed by staff against people with physical or psychological impairments, and we also believe that the number of cases is limited. In addition, the government cannot support the proposal for the following reasons: firstly, the government considers the proposal to be very far-reaching. The proposal may seem unproportional and one may be concerned that it may also end up being bureaucratic. As we see it, there is no link between the bureaucracy that the proposal creates and the problems that it intends to solve. Employers can already ask those who apply for a job to give their consent to obtaining a criminal record, and that is an option, it is not a duty that employers have, and it will therefore be up to the employer to decide for himself whether to obtain a criminal record. If the resolution is adopted, then it will be the employer's duty to obtain an adult certificate every time employees are recruited, that is to say. staff in nursing homes, in home help, in settlements, in psychiatry, doctors and the rest of the staff in health care, thus creating a very large bureaucracy. There you just have to think about it and decide with yourself whether it will be proportionate to the few cases that have been, however, concerning employees who have actually committed a relevant infringement in the past, for example. a sexual assault on a citizen who is debilitated. This is particularly true when taking into account the number of adult certificates that would have to be obtained, because, in the public labour market alone, we consider that this will be at least 62 500 certificates per year, and so there will be an unknown number of certificates on the private labour market, for which we do not have any figures. So, although our assessment is linked to a great deal of uncertainty, it will be a great bureaucracy, it will be violent and also unproportional, as there will be no link between the bureaucratic duty and the relatively few cases that we assume will actually be discovered. Secondly, the proposal will easily create false security for both employers and those who have a disability, because neither the current opportunity available to the employer to ask for a criminal record, nor, for that matter, an adult certificate, as described in the motion for a resolution, rule out the fact that the applicant has committed criminal offences, which have therefore not been discovered. In other words, there may be skeletons in the closet, even if both a criminal record and an adult certificate are not spotted. So in the same way, the adult certificate also provides only a snapshot covering the time when the certificate is obtained, and thus there is no guarantee that the applicant will later stay on the narrow path of virtue. Finally, a purely Danish adult certificate must not be taken to mean that crime has not been committed in other countries either. So the government does not believe that the introduction of compulsory adult certificates will create the security that is the intention of the proposal. Furthermore, the introduction of adult certificates does not accord with the idea of rehabilitation. It is suggested that adult certificates should contain information on more types of offences than child certificates do, but that a distinction should be made by political negotiation. The comments on the motion for a resolution therefore mention sexual abuse, which is mentioned as violence, which is referred to as robbery and thefts, as the offences which are important to prevent do not occur, and the proposal must therefore be understood as meaning that those crimes should, as a starting point, be included in an adult certificate. In this way, adult certificates will contain a much wider range of offences than child certificates do today, because child certificates today only provide information on sexuality crimes. At the same time, it is proposed that the offences should appear on the adult certificate for a longer period than the criminal record indicates, namely for at least 10 years, when the starting point for the private criminal record is 2, 3 or 5 years and the starting point for the public is 10 years. It is quite intrusive for the individual and, as I said, it will ultimately be able to tighten the ground for re-socialisation. Let me just give you one example. After all, it will be impossible to get a job in a nursing home if you have committed a shoplifting 9 years ago, even though you have endured your punishment, have taken appropriate training in the meantime and have, moreover, restored your life and thus have not relapsed of any kind. Then there is the economic aspect of the proposal. The proposers expect that the proposal will be cost-neutral, as any additional costs will thus offset what is being saved by avoiding future cases. The government does not agree with that assessment. If we take as our starting point the 62 500 certificates per year. I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. 10 million kr. This figure only covers certificates for the public labour market. In addition, we have certificates for the private labour market, for which we also have to pay. If you look at the amount of this extra expenditure compared with the few cases which I mentioned at the outset, it is hard to imagine that the additional expenditure will be offset by counter-savings. So, to sum this up, I would like to say that in this way we in the government agree with the concern and agree with the importance of preventing crimes against the group of vulnerable citizens against whom the proposal is directed. We also find the proposal to be sympathetic, but, as I have explained, we also see the proposal as being far-reaching and unproportional, and that there is a risk that it will create bureaucracy and false security, and that, moreover, there is a risk that it will not be compatible with the idea of rehabilitation. It will also require funding, which will not therefore be assigned here. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104853	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104857	In the last session we discussed this resolution, which is now in a modernised version, and the government parties supported it and thought it was important. What's changed since? Now the former opposition sits in government and then proposals for adult certificates are no longer supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223104925	It is important to say that it is not the same proposal. It is a somewhat broader proposal. On the other hand, it is broader in its form, so that it adds up to several different types of crime, such as theft, it is also broader in its form in the way that it will cover more. As I remember the resolution of that time, it was aimed at housing and nursing homes rather more limited than it is at present. So it is simply a wider spectrum. Therefore, the final assessment is that it will entail a cost of 10 million. kr. In this respect, I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Community's financial resources are made available to the Member States in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105015	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105017	Then I just have to understand the Minister correctly. If we put forward the second one we had and do not take the modernised version, which among other things. has been the wish of the Elders Case, which also wants older people to be included in relation to the adult certificate, but if we now take the previous version and present it here in the Parliament, is it to be understood that the government will support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105042	I mean, you're always welcome to take it up in a debate. It would, of course, be a very good opportunity to take it up, for example, in a pool debate, where you can create support and support for getting a job started. But to stand here and say that as a representative of the government, I will support a proposal which is not even calculated and which I do not know what costs will be just enough, I would say. So I'm always willing to do calculations. You can just ask a parliamentary question, and we will be happy to make the calculations concrete, and then you can seize the opportunity when there is also an opportunity to finance. It will typically be via the rate pool. It will also be an opportunity to finance through the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105128	Thank you. There are no further comments to the Minister right now. Then it's mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105150	Let it be said, as a premise for this speech, that it is an extremely important effort that we, as a society, must make to ensure optimal security for groups that have difficulty in protecting themselves. So for us, it is not about whether, in our best judgment, the responsibility for ensuring the weakest of society lies with the management and the staff closest to the citizen in everyday life. They must ensure that we live up to protecting those citizens through an active staff policy and active leadership in institutions and offers to citizens. In addition, high ethics is important, and I suppose that is also what some of the organisations that have expressed their views on the subject have provided in a positive way, namely that this absolutely cannot stand alone. And for us, having a well-functioning education system ensures that the people we are making available to service this group to which the resolution relates have the highest possible ethics. Ethics must come from a high level of education and an inclusive personnel policy and active management in the day-to-day. We fear that a certificate can become a sleeping pillow for this and provide false security, as the Minister also mentioned, rather than dealing with vigilant organisations, with active staff policy and committed management. We have played out ourselves with a reform proposal and reflection on the public sector under the heading "Fingers away', which is precisely leading to the responsibility for the safe solution of tasks being close to the citizens as close as possible to the citizens. So for these reasons, we do not think that this proposal is right. In addition, as the Minister has said, the economy has not been explained about it. We welcome the fact that the proposers recognise so-called dynamic effects, and we would like to take part in looking at this in other contexts, but we do not think that there is a proper explanation of where funding will be provided. If you cannot make the money fit, yes, then the parties of the Folketing must look at it, and as you know, the parties of the Folketing have many different priorities, so that it can be a difficult exercise. We are happy to take part in a continuing discussion on how to ensure the weakest in society and to use positive instruments as a starting point. We are happy to take part in this, both in the Chamber, but for that matter we would also like to take part in debates and in the committee procedure. So with these words I would say that we cannot support the proposal that is before us today, but we are certainly concerned about the subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105520	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105524	Thank you. Does the rapporteur recognise that it can be a prevention tool here, what several organisations have done to say it is and which can precisely prevent repeat cases? I would then like to know whether the rapporteur does not also recognise that negotiations have been launched, that dialogue has been set up and that solutions have been put in place with the parties of the Folketing with this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105555	I recognise that this is an expression of the Danish People's Party's belief that this can help prevent this. There should be no doubt about that. That is fair enough, and we must be allowed to express it. On the other hand, we think that the elements which lie next to it, which could instead have been chosen, are stronger and could have worked better in that direction. But that is our assessment of it. On the question of including it in the negotiations, I would like to say that we are open to that, and we would like to see that, but we are not ready on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105637	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105639	In relation to education, ethics and morality and adult certificates, I would say that one does not rule out the other, so you can look at better education and that part of it. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. We have child certificates in the field of children, and does the rapporteur think it is important to have them in the area of children, while at the same time ensuring people with physical and mental impairments? I am thinking, then, that the rapporteur is in favour of child certificates, so what difference does it make that we also have adult certificates in the field of adulthood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105717	In fact, I think that the Minister has explained in a very good way what a risk there is of this getting a level of bureaucracy beyond what we like. In fact, we would rather help to maintain the management and staff around us to help ensure what is their task in everyday life, namely to create a safe and good everyday life for those citizens who need a helping hand. I have seen that some of the organisations have expressed positive views on the proposal here, but may I not say that in common with them they have said that this is not something that can stand alone, that we have a well-functioning education system, that this presupposes that we have a well-functioning management and that we have a well-functioning staff policy in each offer. Therefore, our concern about the discussion on the introduction of a certificate is that it will be a sleeping pillow or will provide false security, as the Minister also said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105820	Thank you. Now there are no further comments. The rapporteur of the Left is not here, and then it is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223105831	It is important that we ensure that there are rules and frameworks for working with people with physical and mental functional disorders who ensure that citizens experience a safe everyday life as best they can. It is important that citizens who need support, for practical help, for care and for care, can have confidence in the staff employed to carry out the tasks. In my opinion, it is primarily a question of hiring staff with the necessary skills so that they are able to carry out the work in a reassuring manner. The recruitment of competent and also very much enough staff can, for example, be done. help prevent unnecessary use of force against citizens because possible conflict situations can be predicted, they can be prevented and they can be handled professionally if they arise. Of course, citizens must also be able to have confidence that they will not experience abuses, abuse or abuse from employees on whom they are completely dependent in their daily lives. That is why it is already a very widespread practice today that housing services, care centres and care for the elderly, in addition, should be asked for a criminal record from the staff concerned in the case of new recruitments. With this proposal, the proposers suggest that it should not just remain a widespread practice, but that the recruiting authority should actually be obliged to obtain an adult certificate in order to ensure that those concerned are not convicted of a breach of a number of specific provisions of the criminal code. As has already been noted, the proposal does not define the clauses, i.e. the clauses which are supposed to be included, but that they are negotiated between the parties of the Folketing. There have, of course, been similar motions for resolutions tabled earlier in this Chamber. This has already been mentioned by Mrs Karina Adsbøl. I note that the proposal before us today takes account of a number of these criticisms raised by several of the parties during the parliamentary year 2014-15. I think it is positive that the criticism has been listened to, so that the proposal has been amended or clarified in several areas. That's good. I have also noted that the proposal has immediately been very favourably received by the Elders Case, by the Landsforeningen LEV, i.e. the relatives of people with development impairment, and by staff organisations such as FOA and SL. This, of course, makes a significant impression. There are elements in the proposal which still make us uneasy and which will be crucial if we are to decide at some point on a specific legislative proposal on adult certificates. We think it is a sensible approach when the proposal states that it will only be necessary to decide at a later stage which clauses of the criminal code should be included in the new adult certificate, but then, in the comments, a number of criminal offences of a very different nature are mentioned. It is very important for us to consider very carefully what types of criminal offences should be covered and how long previous offences should be included in the new certificates. We therefore believe that the comments made by the proposal on the types of offences to be covered by the certificates are problematic as they stand. In our view, it is extremely important that, when adult certificates are introduced, a distinction should be made between different types of crime. I think, for example. not that it seems reasonable that offences such as theft and sexual offences should be mentioned in a common list. I think that there is a very great difference, and I assume that all rapporteurs will think that this type of crime is the type of crime, and I think that we should be wary of which of those we write in, because in connection with such registration we must ensure that there is a fair balance between the concern for citizens' security and security and the possibility of social reintegration that society should give people who have endured their sentences. To sum up, the Enhedslisten recognises the intention of the proposal and, as I said, we have noted at the outset that a number of changes have taken place in relation to the proposal which the Danish Parliament dealt with three years ago. However, we are concerned about accepting the proposal as it stands, and I would therefore like to point out the possibility that we might be able to draw up a joint report which will enable us to move forward in a process capable of fulfilling the intentions set out in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110352	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110404	Thank you to the rapporteur for a nice speech on the proposal. The rapporteur suggests that we can draw up a report, but it is the case that resolutions can be amended, so it was also an opportunity. What is Enhedslisten's position on the possibility of making an amendment or other? I do not know if Enhedslisten's rapporteur saw that yesterday there was a case at Ritzau, where the headline was Home Helper robbed older woman by drugging her. And that is why I think it is essential that we discuss these criminal offences. We have thought, in relation to theft and the like, that it was, of course, committed in the professional group and in relation to the people we have been through and that, therefore, we should not be able to repeat it if we have first robbed, robbed someone we should take care of and care of. So how does Enhedslisten feel about looking at an adjustment of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110503	I will not rule that out in advance. I am also pleased with the comments on enrichment crime, which at least change it, define it in more detail in relation to the comments that lie here. However, I have also noted that the Minister raised the issue a moment ago and that this is a problem that has also been turned and turned in the previous readings here. So I think we should be very careful to include enrichment crime in such legislation. For the sake of order, there is of course nothing more to that than that we must have a maximum distance from people who can rob people who need their help in everyday life. But that does not necessarily mean that it should be included in a type of adult certificate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110558	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110600	I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. In 2016, the Elders Case was out to say that they wanted future employees in home care and in nursing homes to have a certificate. They then called it an older certificate, and I think that the Danish People's Party's proposal on adult certificates contains something more, but, as I said, it is also being debated. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on the Elders' request for a certificate in the same way as in the case of children. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110635	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110637	Well, I totally acknowledge that. In fact, I also mentioned the Elders' case in my speech, that is, it would be strange if the remarks that come from the Elders' case did not impress us who have to legislate. I also mentioned the Landsforeningen LEV, i.e. the organization for the relatives of the developmentally handicapped. I think it is very important that we pay close attention to what the representatives of the citizens want, in other words those who are dealing with this, just as I think it is very important that we listen very carefully to the representatives of the organisations that are doing the work. Of course, we must first of all take account of the citizens who are in public custody, but we must also do so in such a way that we treat employees properly and decently, and that is why we must also ensure this balance and proportionality in a possible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110732	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl. And I understand that Mrs Laura Lindahl also covers the Left and the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223110741	That's right. Thank you. It is quite true that I should like to welcome the Left and the Conservative People's Party and say that they do not support the resolution. The authors of this report want an adult certificate to be drawn up in parallel with the children's certificate and to ensure that people who have committed crimes against this group do not have to work with people with disabilities, disabled persons or otherwise vulnerable adults. I think the thought behind it is really, really good. When the public takes responsibility for a citizen in this way, it is a huge failure when an employee abuses his position. It is devastating for confidence in the system, and it must be combated as well as ever. As to whether it makes sense to have a new independent certificate, I think there are some considerations that need to be considered. After all, the child certificate has been a success, and I believe it has been, because it has become a fairly flexible part of the process of recruitment to schools, day-care centres and free association. We saw quite a lot of cases, and then we found a pretty sensible tool to handle it. If new certificates are created, my concern is whether the same universal knowledge can be disseminated. In other words, if you segment too much, it may not be possible to maintain this acquisition of certificates as a perfectly flexible and natural part of the recruitment process. Today we have two different criminal records, and we have a child's certificate, and if we want to extend it further, we must be able to show, in my view, that the existing certificates are not adequate tools. So the criminal record will also have to be some relatively large group of cases, so that it can be kept up to the amount of bureaucracy it will entail. There's no doubt that one assault on this group of people is one assault too much. Fortunately, it is a type of abuse which is relatively rare, and one just has to stop the large number of recruitments that are in the area. I think that by having a requirement that you will see a criminal record when you hire, you must be able to get rid of this problem a long way along the way. So you might urge you to do something more. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111024	There is a comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111028	Thank you. The last time we discussed this motion for a resolution, it was Thyra Frank who stood on the platform, and she was also to greet the Conservatives and say that they supported it. That is why I would also like to hear the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance: what has changed from the time we dealt with this issue of adult certificates in the Parliamentary Assembly, when the Liberal Alliance supported this and supported the need to do something and looked forward to the further debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111102	I think a little in line with the answer that the Minister may also give that this is a broader proposal. We are concerned about what it will actually take when there are so many jobs in this area and there are so few very unhappy, but nevertheless relatively few cases. So it is not, in fact, because I do not recognise the problem when it comes to matters. It's not because I don't think it's insanely important to deal with this, but I just don't think this is the right way. I would very much like to ensure that there are no employees who are attacking any citizens, either children or the disabled or others, but could you find no other way than to have to roll certificates into so many jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111145	Another way? So, I am thinking that the rapporteur recognises that we have child certificates in the field of children and that it is a very good prevention tool, so I am very surprised that it is not also considered to be a very good prevention tool in the area of adulthood. What is the second thing the rapporteur wants us to talk about in relation to this? It's a prevention tool. And with the motion for a resolution, the debate is scheduled for debate. This motion for a resolution is not set out in granite; negotiations have been set up, particularly in relation to the inclusion of other parameters, or to the criminal offences that are to apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111229	I acknowledge that the child certificate is a success. And I think that the child certificate is a success because it somehow became a solution to a problem which was greater than the amount of cases in the child field was greater. That is why I think there was a greater sense in calling for this in this area. And there it is, then, just that we can see that it has become an entirely natural part of the recruitment processes. I am afraid that it will also be if you roll it out in several areas. And then there's the criminal record today. As a head of a nursing home, when you hire, you can ask to see a criminal record, and you will then get it out if the person has been guilty of an offence against a citizen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111315	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111327	Thank you. In the alternative, we think that this proposal has a very good intention. It is about preventing violence, sexual abuse, thefts and the like against people with physical or mental impairments. This must be done by establishing a system of adult certificates, just as we have child certificates for people working with children, that is to say, a system for obtaining information on certain crimes committed by adults who have to work with, for example, adults. people with disabilities, people with physical disorders or mental disorders or elderly people in nursing homes. You can quickly find a lot of arguments against this proposal, but in the alternative we don't find any reason to shoot it down from the start. We would like to enter into further negotiations to clarify the need and to see how the proposal might be contained in order to make sense, i.e. which target groups the proposal should be directed at, which crimes should be included in a possible certificate, etc. For example: We do not agree that because in a supermarket you stole a Marsbar nine years ago, you cannot work with the elderly. We will not agree to do anything that is so out of proportion that it suspects a lot of skilled front workers everywhere in the public system. We will also help to ensure that this does not create a huge bureaucracy around this. It is clear that we are also impressed by the fact that, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, both Elders Tag, LEV, FOA and SL also warmly support this. But now this is a motion for a resolution, and this means technically that if we succeed in obtaining a majority for it, the government is required to draft a legislative proposal on it. And in that process, in the alternative, we do not feel bound to support the proposal if it becomes too extensive and too tight and too disproportionate or on the other hand too watered down. But if it can be ensured by means of this proposal that fewer vulnerable adults are subjected to violations, violence, etc., then we think it is very much worth looking at. So from the point of view of the alternative, we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111557	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111600	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for your positive view of this proposal. I would like to hear what the alternative does not think there should be in this resolution. What should be taken from the motion for a resolution in order for the alternative to be able to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111625	I am not going to stand here and specifically have to draft a detailed motion for a resolution tabled by DF. I look forward very much to hearing what DF will propose in the further negotiations on the basis of this whole debate. But as I said, it must not come out of proportion. We should not get into a situation where we believe that very small offences should, after a long time, prevent people who have come to the right track from taking certain jobs. So we will, for example. See if it gets too tight.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111700	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111704	If, for example, you're gonna have to... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Theft? What is it like, according to the Alternative, to be fenced against theft?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111736	I don't want to stand here and be quite clear about that, but I think it's one of those places where DF has a point. In other words, if you have committed crime against exactly the target group you are going to work with recently, it may well be that an adult certificate will prevent that type of crime from being committed against that target group again. That is also why we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111756	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223111804	Thank you. In fact, in the Radical Left, we consider it appropriate that adult certificates can and must be obtained to ensure that persons working with people with a physical or mental disability have not committed violations of certain provisions of the criminal code. We believe, as the motion for a resolution also says, that what these are should of course be negotiated. There may be many arguments for one thing and the other, but what is important to me at this point is that we should remember that this is about older people, people who are less developed, people with disabilities and people with mental illness. It is therefore adults who are unable to defend themselves and are unable to deal with situations where they are subjected to abuse by a person who is responsible for them at the time. Therefore, we also note with interest that the Elders' and LEV's statements have been very positive and that the FOA has also expressed a positive opinion on this. An adult certificate must be seen in parallel with the well-known children's certificates. The adult certificate must ensure that the adult concerned is not punished for the relevant provisions of the criminal code, which we can agree on when we have to make an agreement. For me, it is among other things. It is obvious that it is violence, robbery, infidelity and sexual abuse of a similar nature. There must be complete clarity as to what offences of the criminal code should be reported. Similarly, there must be complete clarity as to which personnel groups should be included and, of course, there are many things that need to be clarified in the course of the process that leads us to have legislation that introduces an adult certificate. I completely fail to understand the arguments I have heard so far that it is very bureaucratic and that it is much more comprehensive than one might think. Because that is what we, as legislators, decide for ourselves, depending on what we think the need is. And I simply do not understand that you cannot see that a child certificate can also require an adult certificate. After all, it is the same vulnerable group that is involved, just in some areas other than the child certificate necessarily covers. So the Radical Left would like to support the work to implement the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112031	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112047	Thank you for the floor. Should municipalities be forced to obtain certificates prior to the recruitment of employees who work with the weakest adults in our society? It is expensive, and it is bureaucratic, but it should not, of course, stop us from doing just that solution if it is the right one. Because if the proposal means that in the future we are free from brutal and totally unacceptable attacks on weak citizens, then of course it is quite obvious to say yes. But adult and, unfortunately, child certificates are not always a guarantee that we will be able to avoid abuse in the future. The certificates, on the other hand, run the risk of becoming a sleeping pillow for management and colleagues, but also for us, in other words, a sort of: then, as a society, at least, we have our backs free. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party has attached examples of what the certificates can prevent. Unfortunately, it is not clear from the examples whether the certificates would have prevented those concerned, who are fortunately duly punished, from committing the abuses in question. For the facts are that the only thing that can prevent abuse is clear and present leadership. For many years I have represented some of the staff involved in this proposal, and unfortunately I have also come across a few specific cases in which an employee has been charged with assault or theft or the like. I have also seen how municipalities and regions increasingly catch up with criminal records when hiring new employees, but without necessarily seeing a real effect. However, it makes sense, of course, that an employee who has been punished in the past for sexual abuse does not obtain employment where one has responsibility for weak citizens. But has the young man, who, unfortunately in his youth's boisterousness and brandery, got involved in and punished for a bar fight forever lost his opportunity to work with the elderly with whom he thrived so well? Or should the woman who, together with a criminal boyfriend, was punished for theft for always losing the opportunity to work with people, regardless of the fact that the punishment was just a factor in her having her boyfriend kicked out and established herself with a new association? Is that not exactly what punishment must also do, in other words resocialise us and make us better people, despite the fact that I recognise that we do not always succeed as well as we wish? The two young people here are some whom I have met over time and have also fought for, unfortunately without success. Because we're really terrified of that punishment that we also have to receive when we get to do something wrong sometimes. On the other hand, unfortunately, I also met employees who, personally forever, I would be able to access the work of people, also in 15 years' time. Common to a few of the examples was that none of them had been convicted in the past, but I would have liked to have seen a verdict that had taken the psychiatrist's words at face value, after which there could have been a ban on employment or dealing with children and weak citizens forever. Common to the two cases was also that some colleagues and relatives had expressed suspicion that there was something wrong, but unfortunately to a tone-deaf management and in a specific case also to the police, who did not take the notification seriously. I am not going to give the management a sleeping pillow; I am not going to give municipalities and regions a request that they should always obtain various certificates, although that does not always make sense, but I also know in parentheses that in many public areas they have already obtained these criminal records, where that makes sense. Instead, I would prefer a call to relevant ministers and KL and Danske Regions to put attacks on the agenda in a way that ensures that suspicions are always taken seriously and investigated, that the respective staff groups speak openly about the fact that, unfortunately, the dog cannot always be seen on their hairs, but also speak openly about how to ensure that the staff can be protected from the improper accusations which, unfortunately, are also at times one of the serious health and safety impacts that staff are exposed to, precisely when we experience these cases. And then a clear and present leadership is, therefore, the best way to ensure that there can be no abuse in the individual areas. I would therefore also very much like to extend a hand to the Danish People's Party for a further discussion in committee on how we can improve on prevention, but as the proposal is here, the SF does not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112530	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112535	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I have said before, the motion for a resolution has now been put forward for a debate. That is why I think it is actually very tragic to hear some of the rapporteurs standing on the floor today say that they cannot support this proposal when the debate has just begun. I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this with repeated cases. There have been a number of cases in the media, including: Because the record doesn't go far enough. If you have committed any offence or sexual abuse or theft to this target group, that is what this is all about, i.e. about this target group, I hope the rapporteur agrees that you do not have to work in that subject again or be able to get a job in a private company.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112618	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112622	I fully agree with that, but the problem is that in many cases we will not be able to look so far back either. I think it's a good idea for us to sit down and talk about how to do it. I could, for example. Imagine that it was the Minister for Justice who was supposed to be involved in discussing how to ensure that adults who commit sexual assaults on adults or for that matter on children, perhaps as part of a personality disorder or other, always have a remark that they should never work with children, weak adults or, for that matter, with children. You could actually do that. I have seen some of those remarks in people's trials, and I have thought that it might have been reasonable here to have made sure that that remark would always go again. These are the situations in which, for example, we are dealing with. has to do with incurable pedophiles.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112727	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112731	The whole challenge is also that you cannot see so far back, and that is why the Danish People's Party has tabled this motion for a resolution on adult certificates. It is also because, in relation to how far back it should go, there is a difference between where you work, whether you work in home care or whether you work on accommodation offers. After all, this is a proposal that needs to be put right. That is why I am very sorry that the SF cannot support it and is not more accommodating to it. It is precisely because more organisations want it here. And we have recently seen these repeat cases in the media because we cannot go so far back. Therefore, a former convicted offender has been able to continue his sexual assault against the residents. That's tragic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112818	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112822	I am not sure I know the cases to which Mrs Adsbøl refers. For me, it is important that we do something serious with regard to wrongdoers or, for that matter, with regard to people who commit abuses against weak citizens. I just don't believe that adult certificates are a solution, because most of the people who have these problems do not already have a conviction. In the cases I am aware of, there has been no prior judgment. It has only come afterward, after which it has been possible to take action from there. And I am not aware of the fact that it will then be per year. definition hires people like that again. So I think the solution is different. I think we need to get in the front line so that we can actually prevent this ever happening again. I think that is more important than working backwards and solving the problem after the damage has been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112922	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We now come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. She has the right to use the platform up here next to the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223112941	Thank you. I should just like to take this opportunity to congratulate the President on his birthday. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is a modernised re-submission of a previous motion for a resolution which we have discussed here in the Parliamentary Assembly and which at that time also received the support of several parties. The Danish People's Party wants to ensure that people who work with people with a physical or mental impairment, for example. elderly people with disabilities and people with mental illness must consent to obtaining a certificate showing that they have not been convicted of a breach of a number of provisions of the criminal code. The definition of these is also provided for, of course, to be negotiated with the parties of the Danish Parliament. That is precisely what we have proposed with this motion for a resolution. There should be no doubt that there are a great many skilled and competent employees in the care and care profession with their hearts in the right place, who every day make a huge difference and a huge effort in daily life, and who have a call to help other people, and the adult certificate will in no way affect them, and they can continue their good work and effort in the care and care profession. The fact that sexual abuse, theft and the like can be committed by a caring person is very taboo and not something we talk loudly about, but the fact that we do not talk about it does not mean that it does not happen, and we must take the debate, even if it can be difficult and taboo. The Danish People's Party is also concerned that in this area there may be a large number of dark people who never come forward, precisely because it is a taboo subject. When a caregiver commits something criminal or behaves irresponsibly, commits sexual abuse or the like, it hits an entire professional group, and therefore we believe that this prevention tool is needed so that we can sort out stray vessels. One might also wonder why, in the same way as a child certificate prevents and protects children in the area, it does not also protect people with a physical or mental disability. Elders The case has previously been out to say that there must be the same control of nursing staff for the elderly as there is for staff working with children, i.e. a routine check of future employees in home care and nursing homes, so that you are sure they do not have convictions for violence, sexual violations or enrichment crimes. We in the Danish People's Party fully agree with this, and that is why we have adjusted our resolution to be able to deal with older people as well. Unfortunately, we have witnessed a number of cases, including in the documentary of the P1 Sex Cranker at Home Care, where it is revealed how a man who has been trained as a social and health assistant and who has previously served a prison sentence for a violent sexual assault in 2000 to get a job at home care in Roskilde in 2009, where he then commits further sexual assaults on two women. Yesterday Ritzau also described the story of a home helper, where the headline was: Home helper robbed an elderly woman by drugging her. The former President of the National Association of LEV has said that there is a gap in legislation in this area and has said that it is a roof-top table beyond all borders and that we must do something about it. When that statement came a few years ago, it was also supported by the Elders cause and the mentally ill's organization SIND. We in the Danish People's Party have taken inspiration from the children's certificate, which we know from the children's area, to make this motion for a resolution, and the adult certificate must be precisely a prevention tool, so that you can sort out stray vessels and have the opportunity to prevent repeat cases. The Danish People's Party wants it to be a duty to obtain an adult certificate when working with people who have a mental or physical impairment. There are currently different rules on criminal records. When municipalities employ nursing staff for accommodation offers or day-to-day services, e.g. If you are unable to develop or mentally ill, you can obtain a criminal record that goes back a long time, but when the municipality hires staff for home care to take care of citizens in their own homes, it is only necessary that the criminal record goes back five years, and therefore people who have previously been convicted of, among other things. sexual abuse, far too easily few jobs as a home helper and thus being sent out to some of the weakest citizens and committing new abuses. We are well aware in the Danish People's Party that an adult certificate cannot rule out the possibility that citizens may be subjected to abuse, theft or the like, but as the National Association LEV has also been out to say, it can help prevent repeat cases. We believe in the Danish People's Party that we can get some sorted from, which does not have to work in the care and care field. We have also received a reply in the past from the former Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior, who has stated that no specific rules have been laid down in the Services Act or in other legislation under the then Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior regarding the collection of criminal records in connection with the local authorities' recruitment of staff for housing, day care or home care staff, who are specifically responsible for the citizens of their own home, and that there are only special rules in this area for child certificates. Then there has been a big discussion today about the economic side, where we have thought that there will also be savings in preventing these matters. So it is not expected in what the Minister says. When we had this discussion about the children's certificates, the bill stated that the cost to the state and municipalities of obtaining a child certificate was estimated to be very limited, among other things. As a result of the fact that children's certificates have already been obtained to a certain extent, there was a slight increase in the number of cases before the recruitment authorities. That is why the legislator then estimated that it would cost 5 million. kr. That is why, with this motion for a resolution, we in the Danish People's Party have put forward negotiations in this area. There has been much talk about that being too few cases. Actually, we don't know that. In fact, we do not know how many cases there are in this area and how many convictions there have been. I think that what this is all about is preventing and ensuring that we have skilled employees. As has been mentioned in the debate here, I do not think that one excludes the other. That does not mean that we still have to have visible management and that it is still qualified staff that we still have to have a good education and all these things. One doesn't rule out the other. I would also like to say thank you, among other things. I would like to thank you very much for the good and positive statements we have met today, among others. I would also like to thank the Radicals, who recognise that there is a need to look at this area. The Enhedslisten also had a good and positive expression and talked it out, talked about finding solutions rather than talking the resolution down. I think I'd like to sign for that. My hope is that we can find solutions together, precisely because it is we, the Danish Parliament, who must of course ensure and help and strengthen the efforts that are also being made in home care, in nursing homes and in housing provision. I am an educated social and health worker myself, and when I was elected to the Danish Parliament, I studied as a teacher. I think it is reasonable that we should have qualified staff and also that we should be able to show that we have a clean certificate. I would also like to see it go a little further back than five years. I also think that other home - care workers, educators, and others can see the point. So I would like to thank you for the floor. I look forward to the committee reading of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223113835	But it's not that easy. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223113840	Thank you. I would like to stress once again that the problem is also very serious from the point of view of the SF. In my rapporteur's speech, I mentioned a few examples where a certificate could not have been prevented, nor do I believe that the home helper to whom the rapporteur refers, who stole from a citizen after apparently drugged that citizen, has been convicted in the past. Does the rapporteur have an overview of whether, in the examples highlighted by the rapporteur, with the exception of a single document, there is any indication that a certificate would actually have made a difference? Or does the rapporteur recognise that we risk that in many cases the tests will in fact not be able to contain the problem because it is a case of the people who commit the crimes not being convicted in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223113936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223113940	It will be difficult to assess if the person has not been convicted in the past. This is going to work, for example. on repeat cases and those recorded. In relation to the examples we have heard, I would say that this would have made a difference, among other things. in the case of Roskilde, to which I referred in my rapporteur's speech, dealing with a former convicted person, where one could not go back and see that he had been convicted before, because the criminal record only went back five years, that is also what has been described in the Jyllands-Posten case and then he was employed in home care again and then committed that abuse. That is totally unacceptable. That is why I think this is an important proposal, and I also believe that, as several researchers have also said, there is a dark figure in this area because it is something that is not talked about. So I am thinking that this would certainly prevent repetitions, and I am quite clear that a certificate cannot stand alone either, but it should also be seen in the way that, just as we have children's certificates, we also have adult certificates so that we can at least prevent and protect adulthood.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114057	I agree that the one example that the rapporteur repeatedly highlights is unacceptable, but does not the rapporteur also recognise that if we say in general terms that all those who have committed some of these criminal acts will never be able to work in this area, then we risk hitting the resocialised or people whom we should not have hit with this? I note that the rapporteur says that this is very taboo, but is it really not what we have to do about, in other words to ensure that it is less taboo and that it is actually something that is spoken out in the institutions, so that the problem is solved before it happens, rather than when the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114144	One does not rule out the other, you might say. And there are also several cases there is not only the one case I mention. There was also a psychiatrist accused of having had sex with a mentally ill woman who had worked in Norway, but then came to Denmark and committed the act. So there are several examples. Thank God that is not something you hear about daily, but there are also more convictions in this area in the care and care sector, and that is of course something we must have dug further in. So the fact that you prevent and of course have some good employees, but at the same time have a certificate, will be very good, and thus we can also better ensure those people who are most in need of help in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114226	Thank you very much, Mrs Adsbøl, for today's work. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114300	The debate is open, and the first to speak is Mrs Christine Antorini from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114322	Thank you for the floor. The proposal is to bring together the guidance on study choices in one institution, which will be called Study Elections Denmark and provide guidance on higher education and further education. It is institutions that are now divided into seven independent centres around the country, and the intention is that the institution should remain physically anchored in seven different places, but as one coherent institution. This means that a uniform guide is given regardless of where in the country you are seeking information and advice, and thus it is also ensured that it is equally good, whether it is in Frederikshavn or in Copenhagen, and that there is no risk that there may be some sectoral and institutional interests that make you not get the full overview if you as a student or an adult want proper guidance. In addition, there are also some organizational benefits and some administrative reliefs that, overall, do so, you can see when you look at the consultation answers that there is generally a positive attitude towards it being assembled in this way. There are, however, a few who are asking whether there has been enough thought about whether the interconnection that is to take place is going to take place in relation to the e-Guide and the Education Guide in the field of the Ministry of Education, and I hope that the Minister of Education will have the opportunity to add some words to this, or we can take it in the committee work on the bill. Overall, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114450	Thank you very much to Mrs Christine Antorini. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114505	Thank you. We are dealing here with Bill No. L 132, draft Law on Study Elections Denmark. The draft law aims to bring together the structure of guidance on the choice of higher education. This is done by setting up a State institution with a number of regional departments. With the new institution, the ambition is to create a more coherent and uniform cross-country guidance at a high level of professionalism. The proposal also provides for a high degree of flexibility so that counselling can be continuously adapted to developments in the labour market, as well as taking into account the different needs that may exist in the different parts of the country. In the Danish People's Party we are positive about the bill. We believe it is important for young people in the country to be offered the same high quality of professional guidance, no matter where in the country they live, just as it is positive that counselling can be adapted to the needs of individual parts of the country. In addition, we believe that the linking of departments will strengthen the professional level and guidance. This allows for a much better sparring and sharing of competences among the counsellors. The draft law also states that it is expected that seven departments will continue to exist. In the Danish People's Party we certainly hope that there will not be fewer departments, on the contrary. It is important for us that guidance is very easily available to all the young people in the country, including those who do not live close to one of the largest cities in the country. With that we look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114615	That's what I'm saying. There are no brief comments. And then I would like to welcome Mr. Mads Fuglede from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114630	Thank you for the floor. When students and other practitioners are to be counseled in the choice of higher education and on the expected employment opportunities after completion of education, it is essential that they be met by skilled, competent and well-informed counsellors. It is therefore important that these practitioners have a strong institution in their backs. At present, the guidance is provided by seven contractors on the basis of the supply of four-year contracts. Instead, the government wants to bring the task of counselling together in one institution. We will do this by setting up Study Elections Denmark, which will be responsible for counselling throughout the country. The aim is to create a better framework for the coherent and more uniform counselling which improves the experience of each counselling seeker. Study choices Denmark will also ensure that all students and guidance seekers will be met by the same guidance with a high professional level, no matter where in the country they live. At the same time, it is our expectation that student choice Denmark will be able to provide more flexibility to adapt guidance to current developments both in education and in the labour market. The Left supports the bill and believes that the creation of Study Elections Denmark will benefit students, counsellors and society as a whole. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114805	You're welcome. And there are no brief comments, so we will move on to Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223114816	Education guidance is of course extremely important, both very important for young people who stand and are confused about what kind of education they should take, but also very important for all of us as a society, so that we ensure that everyone finds the right shelf and gets the education and jobs that they can be really happy and really good at. With this Bill on Study Elections Denmark it is going to mean a alignment of the guidance, which I think is very sensible, and so we from Enhedslisten would also like to support this proposal. The guidance must be equally good, whether the young person comes from Greater Copenhagen or from West Zealand, where I am originally from, and therefore it is also good that with this proposal the government creates a more uniform framework, one might say, for guidance across the country. The aim of this bill is also to create a stable structure, that is to say, of the entire guidance for higher education, and to think it together, so that more emphasis is placed on advising in relation to the academy education, the diploma programmes and the Master's degree programmes. I think it makes sense that more attention should be paid to this. I think there are two things we should be aware of in the further implementation of this. Although student choice Denmark is not in the world to advise on youth education, it is of course important if there is a student who might actually be interested in taking a vocational training course that he or she is then referred to an appropriate youth education centre or another guidance unit. For it may be at least as good to take a vocational training course as a professional bachelor or a candidate. And then it is also important that education guidance first of all relates to what is of educational opportunities and does not spend so much effort wondering how the job market will develop in the coming years. Because it can be very, very difficult to predict, and it can change all the time. Finally, I believe that this proposal can raise some of the guidelines, but I also believe that we need to add a few more kronor and ear to our educational guidance, because too much has been saved in recent years. So I would like us to take care of it politically and find a majority in order to add more money. I'm afraid this bill doesn't. It is so important that we also meet it in relation to the economy, because it is important that all young people are challenged in their study choices and given new inspiration to choose between the many exciting educational opportunities that exist today. But all in all, this is a fine bill that we in the Enhedslist can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115121	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. And welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115130	Thank you. In the glorious film "Interstellar" a critical situation arises at some point. The captain of the spaceship is asking the human robot for a solution. That's not possible, says the robot. No, but it's necessary, the captain will answer. I am tempted to say something similar on the occasion of a proposal for a law on study elections in Denmark. Is it liberal to propose centralisation? Is it liberal to replace private providers with a state? No, you can't say that, but in return, it's necessary. The existing system has proved to be ineffective. There are no uniform criteria for guidance, and there is a lack of impact. We will correct this now by creating a single-tier system that has clearly defined tasks, and that system is Study Selection Denmark. I am pleased that, in the preparation of the case, we have arrived at a model in which Study Elections Denmark 3 years after its creation will be evaluated and where it will also be possible to look at whether the task can then be put to competition again. That is how we solve the problems and we maintain the main political direction. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115253	You're welcome. And I would like to welcome Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115301	Thank you. Counselling is a profession which aims to enable young people to influence the life they are going to live, a life that they want to. Well, we guide both to education, but also to meaning in life. The Minister for Education and Research said it very beautifully and correctly in his message to the students last year at this time: Your choice of study will not only define your working life, but also the formation and knowledge that will shape you as a human being. I very much agree with that, and that is why we must, of course, ensure that their search for higher education ends up in a place that makes sense to them. As described in the draft law, the current model has made it difficult to act quickly and flexibly in relation to the content and focus of the counselling services, the professional development in the area of counselling and the ongoing development of education and the labour market. And in addition, some challenges have been created at these seven centres, as there are many transversal changes. That's what you want to do away with. That is why we also support the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115407	Thank you. Welcome to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115414	Denmark's Social Liberal Party. Thank you for that, President. We in the Radical Left also think that this is a fine proposal. Good professional guidance at a high level is very important, and there is synergy between the different guidance institutions, that there is no silo work and duplication of work. And that's one of the things we want to get rid of with this proposal. It's important. It is also important, as the previous rapporteur said, that guidance is indeed a guide that young people can use, both in terms of addressing what I hope will be the right education, but in a world where new education will always be available, so that more can also help to give a direction to education and life. And that makes some new and greater demands on the guidance. Finally, as the DF's rapporteur said, this merger is of crucial importance, and it is good to create one institution, but with several units, that the guidance is available, because it can be of quite high quality, but if the young people who most need guidance do not have access to it, then we are on it, and therefore it is important that guidance is available to all those who need it. I hope that this will be part of the implementation and formulation that is important for us in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115555	I would like to thank the rapporteur from the Danish Social Liberal Party. We move on to Mrs Tina Boel from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115605	Thank you for the floor. It has long been an important matter for SF to provide students and students with the best possible guidance in their choice of education and also after the end of their upper secondary education. This requires a high level of professionalism among counsellors, which is why it is absolutely essential that regional centres share experiences, best practices and ideas across the country. We do not think that this can be achieved today. There it is, a comprehensive Study Election Denmark is a very good offer, and SF is therefore voting in favour of the proposal. However, it is important for us to stress that the inclusion of the current needs of the labour market must not continue to become a tool to encourage young people to choose specific educational paths. It must continue to be seen as just one tool out of many who aim to help young people find their own educational path. Education must be for life, not just business, and here good guidance in the choice of higher education is invaluable. The SF therefore votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115739	Thank you for that to Mrs Tina Boel. Welcome to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115751	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have already mentioned, the aim of this draft law is to create a new and comprehensive structure for guidance on the choice of higher education and on the expected employment opportunities after completion of education. It is planned that an institution, Study Elections Denmark, will be set up, which will be responsible for providing guidance for the whole country. By bringing the counselling task together in one institution rather than as the current organisation of the counselling service, where seven contractors carry out the task, it is intended to provide a better framework for coherent and uniform counselling across the country. Study choices Denmark will cooperate with educational institutions, higher education institutions and guidance organisations and will involve other public and private stakeholders. The broad cooperation shall ensure the quality of counselling and support a coherent, consistent and coordinated counselling effort for the benefit of the student and society. It has been important for us in the Conservative People's Party that it is possible for it to be evaluated here, and we have agreed that it can be evaluated after three years, and then, on the basis of the evaluation, we would like to see whether it can be possible to compete in this area. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115920	Thank you. Then we have come to the raisin in the sausage end, the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223115932	Thank you for that, President. A number of the rapporteurs have examined the draft law in an excellent way. The aim is therefore to create a new overall structure for guidance on the choice of higher education and on the prospects for employment after completion of education. The government thinks this is a wise focus. One institution is established, Study Elections Denmark, which will be responsible for providing the relevant guidance for the whole country. And the new institution replaces the current organisation of counselling, where seven contractors are responsible for the task. Study choices Denmark is expected to be organized with seven departments, which together will cover all counselling applicants in Denmark. It is the same number of departments as today, and so far the departments will be located, so the guidance is readily available to the practitioners. A joint secretariat will also be set up. With the Government's •Better balance sheet II• from January 2018, it is planned that the Secretariat will be located in Odense at the time of its establishment. As in the past, the guidance is given to pupils in upper secondary education and others who have or are obtaining the necessary admission basis for admission to higher education. The guidance of pupils in upper secondary education is widely available at the individual upper secondary education institution, but there is also the possibility of seeking guidance at one of the departments. With the new institution, it is the ambition to create a better framework for coherence and uniform cross-country guidance, and this must be done at a high level of professionalism. It is also intended to provide maximum flexibility in adapting the task solution to ongoing developments in education and the labour market. In relation to Mrs Christine Antorini's question, I would like to say that it is the case that Study Elections Denmark in its guidance should cooperate with youth education institutions, higher education institutions and guidance organisations and involve other public and private stakeholders. But what is really involved is that we should seek the cross-cutting cooperation that can ensure that coherence. But, of course, we will be very happy to elaborate on the future work of the committee, and then we will have to see if it is enough, and otherwise we will have to look at it. With those comments, I thank you for the other comments and look forward to the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120147	We say thank you, too. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120208	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120232	Today we will be discussing the establishment of language centres in Danish universities. With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want the government to be required, before the end of this parliamentary year, to make legislative proposals to set up language centres or to strengthen existing language centres in Danish universities. These centres shall, inter alia,: develop courses in Danish for foreign employees and students, offer translation and language revision to employed researchers and be in close cooperation with the language thermobank, as the proposers with motion for a resolution no. B-60 has proposed established. The proposal is estimated to cost 2 million. kr. This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the Centre's staff and administrative support expenditure. For a total of eight universities, it will therefore require funding of 20 million. kr. Let me stress once again, because we have discussed parts of this issue before, that I share the views of the proposers on the importance of safeguarding the Danish language. And let me also stress once again that it is my belief that the Folketing should only legislate where there is a clear need for it. A 2013 report prepared by the Nordic group on parallel languageism showed that all eight universities in Denmark at the time were related to the university's language practice in both teaching, research dissemination and administration. It is my feeling that the universities are already working very hard with the Danish language. In order to learn more about whether this feeling is true, I have stated, as a follow-up to previous section 20 questions from the Danish People's Party, that I will now ask the university presidents and rectors how they work in and with Danish as both educational and research languages. This work is under way and I look forward to learning more about how universities work with the Danish language. Finally, it is important for me also to emphasise that I belong to a liberal movement that appreciates that the state only legislates where there is a need. And until I am convinced of something else, and this can happen with the work that is now under way, I see that the universities are best placed to judge for themselves whether they need an independent language centre or whether they want to work with languages in other constructions. It seems to me that this country is not directly a legislative task. Against this background, the government does not wish to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120519	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120523	Thank you. Thank you for the Minister's speech, and thank you for the positive statements that are sometimes made. I would like to ask whether the Minister agrees that research in all academic areas should be disseminated in Danish to the Danish population, and whether the Minister agrees that there is a need to support this dissemination in Danish and recognised, and that it requires an active effort if it is to become a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120549	At any rate, I agree that such an option should be provided as a realistic option. That is why I am also looking forward to the institutions' response to my question. If it turns out that the answer has a different character than what I expect, I'll be happy to look at it again. I also believe that I have indicated in the past that when these answers are available and things have been clarified better, I think we should have a discussion about what might be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120624	I am also told that the Minister recognizes that there is a need for active action to ensure that this communication actually takes place in Danish, and that the Minister agrees that, to the extent that we can see that it does not take place, we may have to ensure that it takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120646	In any case, it is clear to me that if it turns out that the possibility does not actually exist, there is a different situation to that which I believe it does. I have also said before that I think it is important that there are Danish expressions of scientific terms, and I think that we should use some political forces to talk to each other about how the country is. But for the time being, this work has been started, and when we have a more enlightened basis, I think we should start from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120719	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. The first rapporteur for a party is Mrs Christine Antorini from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120749	Thank you for the opportunity to say a few words about B 63, which the Danish People's Party has put forward, about setting up language centres in Danish universities. In the Social Democratic Party we cannot support the resolution before us, but in fact we very much share the views expressed by the Minister, and indeed also the reasons for the aims of the language centres which the Danish People's Party lists in the resolution. You have organized most universities in different ways, and I think there should be room for that too, because universities are organised in different ways, and because the tasks, as the Danish People's Party also describes in the resolution, will vary according to which types of research fields, courses, etc. They have. For this reason alone, we do not think that a particular model should be imposed for language centres. Of course, we are also a little curious about how it can be that RUC and CBS have chosen to close down their language centres. I do not know enough why we in the Social Democratic Party are going to ask questions about this in committee, that is why. Because there has been, unfortunately, a discussion at the universities. It has hit the foreign language areas in particular, and it may also be, that is why it is here when it comes to language centres to help with the Danish language, namely that the persistent cuts that have been made at the universities, which I regret to mention, have meant that the Danish People's Party has been involved in looking around all corners. Whether this is why CBS and RUC have chosen not to have language centres as they had before, I do not know, but we can clarify that in committee work. But that does not change the fact that the intention of working with the Danish language, both as a language of teaching and research, is important. There is experience to draw on and I think that it is some very fine summing up that the Minister of Education came with, of the work already under way, and of a dialogue with universities. That also says that we are positive about what might come out of that work if it turns out that there are some gaps or something where we can help improve it together with universities. So on long stretches we are quite positive about intention. We do not think this is the right model, but thank you for bringing it up here with the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223120956	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121000	Thank you, and thank you again for the commitment that this is an important area. But I would also like to ask the rapporteur if she agrees; that it is important that research is disseminated and disseminated in Danish; and that there is an active effort to do so. In the first place, of course, active action must be taken at universities, but if we can see that this is not happening, the rapporteur is in favour of us taking initiatives, for example. in terms of policy and overall effects requirements and the need to work with this in the individual educational institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121046	I think that research dissemination is an incredibly important part of the work of a university and, fortunately, research dissemination is carried out in many different ways. Whether to go so far as to translate all research into a summary or otherwise in Danish, I am not sure. For the world of research has a character that is international. It also has a character which means that, if any of it is to say that it may not be there, we should devote the greatest amount of effort to the fact that all research is to be carried out, so that Mr. and Mrs Denmark, including myself, simply needs to understand it in Danish. It's just to say that I think you have to find a balance in this. So the answer to the question is that the intention of research dissemination is important, and it must also be possible to do so in Danish. That is also why, as a starting point, we think it is important to have the language centre functions that exist in most universities today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121140	Thank you for your answer. I would really like some clarification, because the answer is that there may be areas of research that the rapporteur does not think should be disseminated in Danish. I agree that not all research results, i.e. reports and everything, should be in Danish, but I hope the rapporteur agrees that in all areas of research we should be able to communicate what this is about in Danish to the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121215	I think that is exactly the balance we need to strike, and that is why I am also glad that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party recognises that it makes no sense for everything to be translated into Danish. But one of the things that lies in the language centres is also one of the advice I can see that the Danish People's Party has received in connection with the drafting of the motion for a resolution. The fact is that there are professional terminologies where it is important that we find out what we call it in Danish, so that we talk about the same thing. So on long stretches we agree. We may disagree when we discuss the means of action. Is this detailed legislation in relation to universities? I'm not sure. There, I believe, the Minister for Education has a better path in the dialogue with universities. And thus we also said that we agree with the intention and look forward to seeing what the Minister of Education gets out of his probes with the university world.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121300	Thank you to Mrs Christine Antorini. No one else allowed themselves to be challenged for debate, so we're going over to Mr. Knox's office. Mads Fuglede from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. To those who think it is strange that we are not taking a lunch break, I would say that it is a tradition that we skip on Fridays to see if we can make a little earlier home for the weekend. Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121329	Thank you for the floor. Based on a number of proposals from the Danish People's Party, we have recently had the opportunity to discuss the role of the Danish language in our educational institutions. And every time we have dealt with the proposals, I have stressed that in the Left we basically share the views of the authors of the proposals that it is important to safeguard the Danish language, not only as a language spoken to each other, but also as a research language and as a language in which we can debate foreign issues at a certain level • even if they do not originate in a Danish problem. I would also like to say today that we agree that our educational institutions play an important role in safeguarding the Danish language. Sir. Henrik Dahl mentioned in a previous debate that it is also important that ordinary Danish is not replaced by bad English out at the educational institutions. We agree with all of this. And that is why I hope that the Danish People's Party will take part in the work that the Minister also points out, which is about having a dialogue with our educational institutions, that we must meet the challenges we face with the Danish language in universities. However, with regard to the proposal we are debating today, I must say that the Left cannot support it. As the Minister also pointed out, it is our understanding that the universities are already working with the Danish language, either through language centres or through other structures. As the Minister also mentioned, we will finally have clarification on the thesis during the spring when the results of a study of university language practice are available, and then we will have to lift it from there. I look forward to this, and I am sure that the conclusions can form the basis for constructive discussions on possible challenges at Danish universities, also so that we do not have to go into detail when it is not necessary to regulate detail. For the Left, it is a fundamental principle that we refrain from legislating in areas where there is no need for it, and I do not think there is any indication that we are still there. This does not mean that we should not monitor it and keep an eye on it, but I do not think that the Folketing should decide by law that all universities should have independent language centres. It must be the individual university which best assesses whether you need an independent language centre or whether you want to work with languages in other structures. Against this background, I can say that the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, but hope that we will, among other things, support it. together with Dansk Folkeparti can discuss other initiatives that can strengthen Danish as a language of teaching and research. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121619	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121623	Thank you. I can hear that there is no need to legislate if there is no need for legislation, and I can understand that as well, but what I would just like the rapporteur to reply to is whether the Left, with the studies that are under way and the results that may appear, is ready to take any steps that may be necessary if we can see that what we do not really want is to happen in the educational institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121652	As I also heard the Minister replying when that question was asked before, I would say that if, when the mapping of this is in place, there is a need for a closer look at it, that is something we will do. That's how much we'll come to meet you, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121714	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121725	First of all, I would like to say that I really think that strengthening the language centres in universities is a good proposal, because these language centres can both help to improve the students' Danish skills, but thus also provide an entrance for all students, you might say, to academic language. And this is particularly important today, when fortunately we also have many students who come from non-academic homes or from homes with less academic literature in the bookshelf. So, on that basis, I think the Danish People's Party's proposal is actually very good. However, my concern about the proposal is that there will be too strict political regulation on how universities should organise themselves and that money will not follow to support these language centres. It has to be said that right now, unfortunately, we are in a situation where the economy of universities is being cut very, very badly. With the support of the Danish People's Party, the government removes 2% annually. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. I think that is clearly part of the reason why language centres have now been shut down in some places. It is simply a matter of saving all the places you can. So to the extent that the resolution here does not seek to find more money for universities and at the same time entrusts them with a task, we cannot support the proposal as it stands. However, if we can have a good dialogue with universities and with the other parties and find a solution • Perhaps also on the basis of the study mentioned • which also contains some financial support to prioritize the language centres, then we from the Enhedslisten would very much like to take part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121919	Thank you. It did not give rise to brief remarks, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223121928	Thank you for the floor. With motion for a resolution B 63, the proposers want the government to put forward a legislative proposal to set up language centres or to strengthen existing language centres at Danish universities. During the period from 1990 to 2015 I was either a teacher at various higher education institutions or a examiner at the same colleges. And during that period I experienced something that can in fact be described without exaggeration in a way that is often in the 1990s, it was not exactly unthinkable, but at least rarely that a native Dane who went to a Danish university might put comma in front of that plus infinitive, or that he was uncertain about the difference between infinitive and presens. Now it is quite and quite common. In the 1990s, few students were uncertain about the use of foreign words and the use of fixed terms. Now it is also quite, quite common to see when fixing a stack of tasks. The question is, of course, why it has come to that. I think there are many reasons for that. In the past, for example, we had to do something about it. Latin could to be allowed to deal with the humanistic subjects in high school. And it is a violent decline which I am basically still shocked by, that is, that you should not be able to do so. Changing governments have been working for a long time for everyone to be able to enter high school, and they have also been working for the fact that it should not be too difficult and strenuous to go to university. And of course you can all notice this in the falling level in writing Danish. So there is no doubt that the problem exists, but the question then is whether language centres should be set up to tackle the problems. If I am to be quite honest, and I suppose I am, when I stand on Parliament's platform, I think it is simply too late to take action. If you have to write a correct and vibrant Danish, then it is best of some good habits that you have founded in the small classes of primary school. Therefore, it would be better to insist on grammar and spelling in primary school, higher entry requirements for high school and higher requirements for admission to university than to doctorate on the misery of linguistic staple plaster and grammatical aspirin after being admitted to university. Furthermore, I share the view expressed by the Left that universities should have a very considerable freedom to organise themselves, as they now see fit. That is why I would like to stress that I and LA very, very warmly support the ideas behind the proposal and we would very much like to have more discussions on how to tackle the problems. However, we are sceptical about the method of resolving the problem, and that is why we do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122319	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122322	Thank you. In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur when he says that if you have to be good at Danish, it starts long before you get to university level. This is also about something else, because it is also about maintaining the possibility and ability to disseminate research at different levels of research and research in Danish to Danes. Of course, we can discuss the methods of doing so. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the LA will help to say that if there is a need to ensure that something is done in universities, we will also find in here a way to ensure that this happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122417	One must be aware that the desire for Danish to be a language that can do it all, and that one must therefore also be able to have research at the highest level in Danish, goes very far back. It was H.C. Ørsted himself who found out that oxygen should be called oxygen and hydrogen should be called hydrogen. So this is something that has been Danish research policy for 200 years, and we will certainly support it. But now we want to see this report first, and then we have to figure out how to practically respect the autonomy of universities, but also ensure that Danish is a language that can be used for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122502	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122504	I'm glad to hear it. And I think I can also say that we agree that the tradition that has been there for a very long time, we have to do something to stick to it, because it is challenged, at least as I see the world. I also have the impression, and this is also what the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech, that there are some things that challenge it. So I hope we can combine in finding ways to ensure that this can be done. I would ask the rapporteur to confirm this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122535	Yeah, that's mostly a comment, but it's really, really important. I think it is important that we also involve universities, because it is clear that the language in which we compete internationally is English and the language in which we have a lot of research cooperation is English. This is, of course, something that must also be respected, while at the same time we also have a broad wish, as I hear all the rapporteurs say, that Danish should be a language in which all kinds of ideas can be expressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122609	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl, and welcome to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122616	As a matter of principle, we are opposed to governing the institutions with rigid rules in here from Christiansborg, which restricts the freedom of each institution to make its own decisions regarding their development. We would very much like to earmark more funds for education and research, but we do not think that we should decide exactly what each institution should spend its money on, including the creation of language centres. We still believe that they know best for themselves. Since Denmark's educational institutions are currently subject to considerable savings, this would be tantamount to forcing institutions to prioritize and spend money that they do not have if the institutions would not be able to be sure of a larger state subsidy. The motion for a resolution places particular emphasis on Danish knowledge, and indeed Danish knowledge is important. However, it should be stressed that if the institutions were finally to be forced to set up language centres, or if the institutions themselves now found the means to support that need, it would be for a different and broader purpose than just that of the proposers. It should not primarily be in order to strengthen teachers' and students' Danish knowledge; it should be in order to strengthen their language skills and thus also English knowledge, Spanish knowledge, Chinese knowledge, or what needs to be done at each institution. When you read the motion for a resolution, you get the impression that the purpose of creating the language centres is that they should primarily support Danish knowledge. The authors themselves use the University of Copenhagen as a good example in their resolution. The University of Copenhagen has a language centre that is really working to strengthen, among other things. Danish knowledge. However, according to its own descriptions, this language centre should create language courses tailored to the different needs of the university. One of the most recent projects is to ensure the quality of English skills for all researchers who teach English-language courses in the Faculty of Science and Life. So we are not in favour of the detailed management of our institutions, whether it is about the creation of a language centre itself or whether the teaching at this language centre should be based primarily on Danish. We simply do not want to interfere and therefore we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122844	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122846	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that research in all areas should be able to be disseminated in Danish to the Danish population and whether the rapporteur agrees that there is a need to support this dissemination in Danish and recognised and that, in order for it to become a reality, it requires an active effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122910	I am not going to stand here and say that in absolutely all areas it must be the greatest purpose that it is disseminated in Danish. I think it is very, very important that we focus on the fact that Danish is a living research language, and I think it is very, very important that we work with language skills in general. But to be able to go in and put up completely squarely that all research must be disseminated in Danish, period, no, I cannot agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122936	If we cut it down to saying that in all fields of research the research that is being carried out should be able to be disseminated in Danish to the Danes, can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223122949	Can we then make a settlement that states that research must be disseminated, also in Danish? To say that it applies to all areas and all research, no, it is therefore too rigid to put it up that way. We live in a globalised world. Danish is a living language, so we must be careful that we do not put up such rigid frames that make us actually slowly choke the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123009	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left, Denmark's Social Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123020	Thank you. The Minister explained his approach to the universities. I think that is a very good thing, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, because this has been followed up by the previous debate we have had on this subject too. Fortunately, there are now some who follow, but there are probably not many outside this room who are watching this debate. It is also okay, but I think it is an example of how we are actually discussing something serious and coming around a subject. So there is praise to the rapporteur for addressing this issue and for doing so in a proper, substantial way, which is about the real issue. I think this is important and I think that the Minister has taken it seriously, so I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister. I might as well throw the rose around. Because that is the way to do it here: to take the dialogue with the institutions and go into it, which among other things. was my call from the platform of the previous debate that we had a few months ago. I think that is quite the right way, because we should not decide in detail how universities should organise themselves and in what way they should take languages seriously and precisely ensure that we have a living language. So it is also about resources; I have to support the Social Democrat rapporteur in that. But our language is also our identity. It is a small language and it is a difficult language, and we have to take care of it, but also to cultivate it and be excited about it. This, of course, also requires a living scientific language, so I think the Minister's approach is quite right. And then we have to be prepared here to be ready to deliver what I believe is not legislation, but more resources for that to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123231	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. This did not give rise to any brief comments, which is why we are moving on to Mrs Tina Boel of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123243	It is SF's goal that Danish universities are guaranteed good conditions which enable them to train skilled graduates and deliver groundbreaking research. We have many skilled Danish professors, researchers and lecturers, but in our globalised world it is also imperative that we can attract smart heads from abroad. Offering language teaching to foreign teachers can help to make Denmark's universities even more attractive as a research and workplace outside our own national borders, because we can thus facilitate communication for foreign employees. It is important for the SF that language centres do not turn into bureaucratic headaches, and therefore we would like to commend the proposers for the presentation that universities themselves have a framework allocation and influence on the design of each language centre. It is at the heart of the success of the language centres that they are locally anchored and adapted to the situation at each university. The immediate challenge of the proposal is the economy. Universities are already under pressure on the economy, and that is why it is necessary for the institutions to have a proper framework funding. SF believes it's well spent. The language centres will benefit not only the foreign employees and students, but also Danish students. Academic Danish is almost a language for itself and special for students coming from a non-academic home, and the language advice of the centres can be a helping hand. So the SF is immediately positive about the resolution and we look forward to the forthcoming committee work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123447	Thank you. There were no brief comments, and I would like to welcome the last rapporteur, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123458	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here concerns the establishment of a language centre in all the universities in the country. In the Conservative People's Party, we agree that it is important that academic Danish knowledge continues to be supported at universities. However, it is difficult to see why it should help something to force universities to set up language centres when a number of them have already chosen to close them down. Universities operate differently and each one has the best conditions for assessing how they should deal with the work on the language. For the same reason, we are also looking forward to the study, which the Minister also mentioned, which will come in the spring from the Ministry of Education and Research, on the university's work on the language. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123603	Thank you. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123623	Thank you very much for the debate and for the many statements. We recently had a good debate here in the Chamber on B 43, the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on the introduction of compulsory Danish-language subjects into English-language courses in Denmark, and both this debate and the debate here today stress to me that there is a broad consensus and recognition that we must take seriously the security and future of the Danish language and that we need an active effort to ensure that we continue to have Danish as a living and active language in all areas. There are many elements in such an effort. In the proposal we are discussing today, it is for us to set up language centres and strengthen the already existing language centres at each of the Danish higher education institutions. The language centre of each educational institution intends to improve the academic qualifications of students in Danish, but also to improve the understanding of students and, in particular, the mastery of academic genres, and it is therefore an advantage to be able to write in the special academic genres in your mother tongue before learning to write it in a language that you do not master quite well. The centres must also be able to act as a consultative body for teachers in their communication in Danish, and students can receive advice and guidance, etc. The long-term intention of establishing the language centres and a related language term bank, which we will also discuss later on with our motion for a resolution, is to facilitate and support the teaching and dissemination in Danish. In the light of the debate we have had today, I will continue to work on it. Because I see that there is a report which I hope will be supported by a broad majority. For I note that there is no immediate support for the square to impose on the government what we have described in the proposal. At the same time, however, I also hear a broad consensus on meeting the challenges that exist and a consensus that systematic action is actually needed. So the disagreement about how we manage the action could perhaps find a way out of it by looking at overall demands that there should be policies and that there should be action plans, which I think we need to have if we are to work systematically with an area, regardless of which centre or institution or organisation we are otherwise. And it could be combined with overall objectives about what results and what effect we want there to be, among other things. ensure that Danish can be disseminated in all fields of research. So I see a way to ensure that, but of course there must be a great deal of freedom to find the methods and practical ways of each institution. The most important thing for me and the Danish People's Party is, in fact, that we not only look at passively, but that from here we actively push on in relation to an effort to facilitate and support the teaching and dissemination in Danish, and I am delighted to experience an agreement on this here in Things today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223123936	You're welcome, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223124004	I'm gonna say that when sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth is prevented from taking part, we have dispensed from the Rules of Procedure, by the fact that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl goes in as the proposer, although formally he is not on the proposal. The negotiations have been opened. The Minister for Education and Research is the first to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223124042	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising a major issue. The proposal requires the government to introduce a temporary stop for student loans to foreign students. It is proposed that we should only resume the grant of student loans when the Danish State can recover defaulted student debts easily and cost-effectively in the other EU/EEA countries. The proposers justify the proposal by stating that it is because of the cooperation within the EU that Denmark must provide free education, su and student loans to EU/EEA citizens in line with Danish citizens, and therefore the European Union should also be obliged to enable the Danish tax authorities to recover student debts that have not been repaid even after the foreign student has left the country. The government supports freedom of movement in the EU. It is a cornerstone of the internal market and a prerequisite for growth and employment in Europe and Denmark. However, young people from the rest of Europe are not meant to travel to Denmark for a free education, su and su loans and then return home as soon as they have finished the training in question. Of course, that is not fair and it is unacceptable for foreign students to leave the country without paying back the debt. Young people from other EU/EEA countries owe 155 million. kr. in default of S.U. loan debt. That number is too high. But there too we must pay attention to the proportions. For right now, in relation to the defaulted Su-debt as such, it amounts to 4.9 billion. DKr., of which Danish citizens owe the vast majority, i.e. 4.5 billion. kr. So in her moral approach to this one should also remember to point out, as I remember the famous Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech once remarked to Klaus Riskær Pedersen, namely that in the Left we believe that we have to pay our merchant bills. When we look at the young people who no longer live in Denmark, the Danish students also account for by far the largest part of the defaulted su-loan debt. While EU/EEA citizens abroad owe 80 million. kr. In default of su-loan debt, Danish students living abroad owe 1⁄2 billion. kr. It will therefore be insufficient to focus only on the citizens of other countries in this context. Having said that, there should be no doubt that when young people from other EU countries come to Denmark and have access to free education and su, they will of course have to pay back their SU loans. Therefore, we must strengthen efforts to recover defaulted debts, both against Danish citizens and against foreign nationals, regardless of where the debtor may live. For me, it is crucial that the Danish Su system does not become an outlaw area where you can leave your debt at the border. We must be able to expect both Danish and foreign students to pay their su-debts. At the same time, I cannot vouch for a su system that develops into a lawless area in the legal sense of the European Union, in other words, in which we discriminate against young people from the other EU countries in violation of the fundamental rights deriving from EU law and the right of free movement. The proposal to stop temporarily for student loans to foreign students will put other EU/EEA citizens at a disadvantage compared with Danish citizens. This will constitute discrimination which is not compatible with Union law. That would not make sense either. We must bear in mind that in Denmark we benefit from receiving foreign students, just as we benefit from Danish students being able to choose to take an education in another EU country in the same way. Fortunately, there are other effective ways of dealing with the problems. The Minister for Taxation and I have therefore presented today a comprehensive set of initiatives to help us recover the external debt owed by people. The initiatives are divided on two lines: one at national level and one at international level. At the national level, a special unit of the Ministry of Taxation will be set up in the next debt management. The unit must work purposefully with debtors abroad and in getting their debts to Denmark recovered, including su-debt. As part of this effort, it will be possible to initiate cooperation with private debt collection companies with branches or partners abroad who can contact debtors in order to recover the debt in cases where debt relief has been unsuccessful. Secondly, the government will initiate trials on defaulted debts in the courts of Denmark with a view to obtaining judgments enforceable in other EU countries through the rules of the so-called Brussels I regulation. If the regulation cannot be applied in relation to Su-loan debts, an alternative would be to look at the possibility of bringing proceedings directly before the courts of the debtor's country of residence. At international level, the government is working firstly to strengthen Nordic co-operation on debt recovery, so that it also includes su-debt. Indeed, the majority of EU/EEA citizens who do not pay back Su debts come from our neighbouring countries. So strengthened Nordic cooperation will solve a significant part of the problem raised by the Danish People's Party. Secondly, we are also examining the possibility of concluding bilateral agreements with relevant countries on mutual cooperation in the field of recovery. They could be countries like Germany, Britain and Poland. Specifically, this will mean that the country concerned is committed to helping SKAT recover its debts. Finally, we continue to examine the possibility of a common EU solution. We do, among other things. building alliances with countries that have similar problems in recovering debts in other EU Member States. But there I have to say that our legal reservation means that it is not necessarily an equal solution. There are no easy solutions, and more of the initiatives will take time. It may be tempting to close the box, to pull the brake on foreign students, but we must live up to our EU legal obligations and act in respect of the fundamental rights arising from EU law and the right to free movement. These are rights which Denmark and Danish citizens enjoy in fantastic many respects. Against this background, therefore, the government cannot support the draft parliamentary resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223124701	Thank you, sir. Minister. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223124707	Thank you to the Minister for one, I think, nuanced and thorough speech that came all around the problem. Where, of course, I think it lags a little, it is in relation to the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party which, in the eyes of Enhedslisten, must in principle be the most effective. Because if you want to promote the expedition in relation to some of the other initiatives mentioned by the Minister, then it was most natural to introduce a temporary stop for su-loans to foreigners coming from countries with which we do not have an agreement. That's how I'll allow myself to spin it around. For it is clear that the countries with which we have an agreement should of course not be penalised. Well, where we have the opportunity to recover the debt, that's fine. But I do not really think the Minister is concerned about that. At the same time, the Minister says that when it comes to the European Union, the very long prospect may not be possible at all to get an EU agreement because we have a legal reservation and, incidentally, it takes so much time in that system. So would the Minister not like to start by acknowledging that we have two problems here? One is that we lack a really effective tool, and the other is the European Union, because it is the European Union that decides which EU citizens should have access to this country, but we do not have the option of recovering the debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223124830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223124832	I believe that the tools that the government has now put forward will help to resolve the issue in question, in which I would say again, the proportions must be seen. Well, we have a very heated discussion about this, which is really about 80 million. kr., but the fact that Danish citizens owe and have defaulted on debts of between 4.5 and just under 5 billion. kr., don't fill. And I think it's about that starting point. And the tools we have then put forward, we think we will work. The second is the question of whether the European Union is the problem or the solution. To me, the EU is the solution to Danish prosperity, to Danish students' ability to travel abroad, to Danish students' ability to conduct research and teaching at a very high level, and I will not put that at risk, and I will not break the law because that is what we are talking about • because our legislation at the moment is designed in a way that then creates some of these problems. Our problem is with our legislation: I do not think it is the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223124943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223124946	Thank you. I would just like to point out, so there are no misunderstandings, that the Enhedslisten certainly appreciates the initiatives that the government has published today, and these are some where, as far as I have understood it, it is not my rapporteurship that all the parties of the Danish Parliament have been involved in discussions that some things should be done and agreed that it was a good thing if the government went that way. I cannot understand what the Minister is saying in relation to the European Union. Well, on this issue, the European Union is part of the problem. Let us put aside the big EU discussion. Here the European Union is clearly part of the problem, because it is the European Union that decides which EU citizens and how many people should have access to Danish su. It is not the Danish Parliament that decides it. It's as simple as that. At the same time, however, the Commission has made it clear that we do not have any haste to try to resolve this problem. And the Minister adds what is probably right, that perhaps it cannot be resolved at all because we have a legal reservation. Well, then we must find a more effective tool in relation to that part of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125053	Yes, and there it is in the government's view extra-parliamentary activity where legislation is broken, to which Denmark itself has committed itself. That is not an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125103	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125105	Thank you. After all, I am delighted to see the initiatives that the government is presenting today. Some might have thought that it had some small connection with the proposal that we were going to be dealing with this afternoon, but it is probably a mere coincidence that it comes straight up to that. What I would like to ask the Minister is about EU rules, because although we are now going in and accepting that EU rules say that we cannot do this, I am familiar with the concept of emergency law in the legal field. The emergency is where the law is violated in order to avoid further damage, and isn't that what we're dealing with here? We have a debt that we cannot recover, at least that is what the government has said until yesterday, so does the Minister not agree that it must be considered an emergency right to put a plug in the hole where the money is pouring out until a solution is found until you get these agreements made and until you have a system to ensure that we can get the money back?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125206	No, I don't agree with that. The concept of emergency law is quite well-lit and is much sharper if it is to be applied. I recognise its existence, certainly, but we are talking about it if there are civil war-like conditions or danger to public peace. Public peace is a very serious concept, and I do not think this is the case here. And, at the same time, we have the problem of arguing with other countries about having special exceptions or changing the rules, or whatever it is that our own citizens do not pay what they owe and do not do so to a much greater extent. So I want to say that I don't think we're where mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl perceives we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125257	No, I can hear that. If we have a system in which we borrow people who can then travel out of the country, money, then my basic logic tells me that they just get an increased su, and then it is a traffic that we should stop. An effective tool in relation to all the measures the government would like to take would be to say that we will turn off the possibility of these loans until we have an agreement with the individual countries. It just makes really good sense, it's really logical, and it would seem to me to be really common sense. I know that does not necessarily have so much to do with the European Union, but perhaps the Minister would like to agree that there is some common sense in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125341-2	We think there is a lot of common sense in the European Union in that it creates a fabulous framework for a smaller country like Denmark to be able to be heard internationally and, moreover, to have a common set of rules. But we are on that issue, for example. in relation to the reservation that some people believe that Denmark should just be allowed to claim out there, but that we will not give other countries the same right. That was the problem with parts of the documents that some thought we should vote against in the vote on, among other things. Europol. That is why I find it a little difficult to respect the excellent rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, with whom I have a good working relationship to take seriously, that here you want to bang, and no, and now we have to, etc. My approach to this is that we need to work seriously on the issue in question, and so we do. We are laying down a long-term strategy to get the EU to deal with this, looking for cooperation with the Nordic countries where the problem is greatest, and also using private debt collection companies. I think we're gonna make a lot of progress with that kind of work. I would like to say one thing at the end, Mr President, although I know that time has passed. This issue has been seriously dealt with for quite some time now, and it is true that all the parties of the Folketing have been involved in it, but I do not think that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl should be sorry that the initiatives have been presented today, because I think it is an important issue that the Danish People's Party has raised. And we have worked hard to try to satisfy the vast majority of the Folketing who wanted something done. That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125521	We thank the Minister for the work he has done so far. And then I would like to welcome the Social Democratic Bornholmer, sir. Claus Larsen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125549	Thank you, Mr President. First we had a minister who is related to Bornholm, and then I represent Bornholm, but it has no connection with this. It is totally unreasonable, it is intolerable that people should not pay what they should pay. It is simply an insult to taxpayers, it is an insult to students in Denmark who pay off their debts. It's not okay, it's not okay. That's all you have to say about it. That's why it's absolutely crucial to say what we can do about this. There are bilateral agreements with the countries concerned, and we are not talking about banana republics, but it is our neighbouring countries that are well-ordered societies, and there we must have bilateral agreements. And when it comes to the Nordic area, let's use the Nordic Council as a platform to get it together internally between the Nordic countries. We look like each other in a lot of areas. And let us then make bilateral agreements with those who are not in the Nordic area and then go down the EU track, but do not run blindly on it. But the point must be that if we have European cooperation, where there is a possibility of studying and working across borders, then it must be a requirement of the Commission and of the decisions taken in the European Union that it is, of course, possible to pursue debt and get it recovered on an equal footing with other things that are cross-border. It is of course of no use that the rights of individuals cross national borders while the rights of each State stop at the national border. We are in favour of the initiatives presented by the government today. We think that's the way forward, and then we have to get this recovered. After all, it is a lot of money, but still not in the big picture so much money, so we give that support. This also means, of course, that we cannot support the proposers' proposals to simply stop. We are going the other way, on the basis of the arguments I have used and, as such, the Minister has also used. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125800	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125804	Thank you. First question: now that the rapporteur does not want to deal with the problem of the European Union, we can then introduce that model with regard to third countries. What's the problem with that? And does the rapporteur not agree that if we introduced such a model, it would be an extremely effective tool, because then those countries that would like their citizens to also have the opportunity to study in Denmark would, of course, hurry to make a good deal with us, and then the problem is solved? That was the first question I have a little time left. The second question is: will the rapporteur recognise that on this issue the EU is part of the problem because EU rules mean that we cannot control how many foreign students should come from EU countries and get the right to Danish su?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223125854	I would say that, as it is, it is true. It only shows what I am saying, namely that our EU cooperation is half in the sense that we have built in some rights that you cannot sufficiently pursue across-the-board. You must work for that, but we do not just park the solution in the EU context. Basically, I believe that what is most effective in this matter is that we in the Nordic Council between the Nordic countries agree to do something about it here in the form of bilateral agreements with the countries that deliver the highest number of students who have not repaid their debts. It is Germany, it is England, it is the Nordic countries and so on. So let's concentrate on that part. But that does not change the basic view that the benefits that we, for example, have. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. debt or rights. But we're not depositing it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130001	Thank you. I believe that I share the rapporteur's view. When we talk about those countries outside the EU, the Nordics and England and perhaps one more, there will be good opportunities. To them, one can just say that we are actually considering introducing such a temporary stop if we do not get a sensible agreement. Of course, it must also apply to us. It must be a mutual agreement that we should help them recover debts if it is Danish students abroad who are creating a problem. Of course. It's easy to solve. As far as the European Union is concerned: does the rapporteur not think it could give a little impetus to the system, instead of waiting for the Commission to come together to resolve this at some point? Perhaps, as the Minister has just said, nothing can be done at all. Why should we ask other powers to do something we can solve ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130053	Well, that depends a little on where you're gonna put the heaviness. I really think that where we should put the weight in this case is, in fact, to get that money in. It's about making some deals and getting the money in. In fact, you have to get to the necks of each of those who have borrowed the money, and then we have to make some agreements with the countries in question. And I think we should go for that. But that does not change the principle in the view that we have to say in an EU context: dear friends, who are the same when we discuss labour market policy. There is no point in having freedom of movement if we do not have a guarantee of fair working conditions for those who come to us and have to work there. These things have to be linked, but it is, after all, a major and a little longer-term discussion and a bigger fight in a European context. And we just can't deposit this case there. We can pursue an EU track in parallel, but we are going the other way. That is what we recommend, and that is what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130155	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130158	Thank you. It is not, of course, because I disagree in any way with the fact that we must pursue all the clues and all the ideas of the government. One can hope that they will work, and there is no reason not to follow those paths. But until that is possible, why not say that those who come from countries from which we cannot collect from cannot get su-loans? Well, it's just one thing to say that we stop doing that. I would also think that this might also motivate those countries to have some agreements with them. I did not hear any reason why we should not do so, while, of course, we can work on the basis of the plan that the government has put forward today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130248	Yes, but I just have to say that there is something EU law in this matter that we need to respect. That is also what the Minister is saying. You can always choose whether you want a strategy where you go for a concrete solution or whether you want to cut the brake and stop. These are two different working methods, and my recommendation is that instead of using the latter method, we try to go the other way and see if we can get this money in by making some sensible agreements. If that is not possible, there may be a new situation, but we choose that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130321	Thank you. Then it's round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130327	The rapporteur says it a little bit as if it is a choice between going one way or the other. I see no obstacle to working on all the clues that lie in the government's proposals, and at the same time saying that until we have some solutions to that, the young people from the other Nordic countries, which it is very much about, will not be able to get su loans. Then it may be that it leads to a case before the European Court of Justice. I don't know who's going to defend that we just have to give loans to someone who doesn't pay them back. So I think it would be quite obvious to put that pressure on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130400	If so, that is a choice of method, and I just do not agree with that. It's like this, the water's divorcing. That's the way it is. We're going the other way around, and we're confident that if this happens, you're gonna get the money in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130416	Thank you. Then there's no more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130431	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important debate. I would very much like to stress that we in the Left share the concern and look seriously at the unpaid student debts of foreign students. In the Left, we are basically of the view that you have to pay your debts, and this also applies, of course, to foreign students who come to Denmark and benefit from free education and who also have the opportunity to take out su-loans. It is simply completely unreasonable that Danish taxpayers should pay for foreign students who do not pay their debts to the public. It is clear to everyone that our challenges with the recovery of foreign debt are a very complicated matter, where there are no quick or simple solutions. We in the Left are very conscious of the fact that solutions must be avoided, which simply replace one problem with another, that the solution should be avoided, that it would be to correct a wrong by committing a new injustice. We do not believe that the response to the debt challenges is to break with the fundamental rights deriving from EU law and the right of free movement within the European Union. The Danish People's Party's proposal to stop temporarily for student loans to foreign students would put other EU/EEA citizens at a disadvantage than Danish citizens. In other words, there will be discrimination which is not compatible with EU law. The solution must therefore be found elsewhere, and I am very pleased with the initiative and initiatives presented today by the Minister for Taxation and the Minister for Education and Research, even though it came so late that I had to be up late to read it out. As the Minister also explained, the project is being distributed on a national and international track. It contains a number of concrete initiatives and I look forward to further work on it and hope that with it we can solve much of this issue. I therefore have an understanding of the authors of the motion and I would like to stress that we share the frustrations, but we need to find a durable and constructive solution that does not break with the agreements that we ourselves have helped to conclude. Against this background, I must inform you that the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130703	Thank you. Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130708	Thank you. When the rapporteur is talking about discrimination, I think that the discrimination we see in this is, of course, about young students getting a su-loan that they can calculate not having to pay back. And then we have Danish young students who get su-loans, which they can count on to be charged and which they will pay back. It is also a discrimination. Is it more reasonable than the one where we say that the young people who come from countries where we know you can't charge this money? That would then be the reasonable, uniform treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130749	It is never fair not to pay off its debts, and that is why we must, of course, work to create a system in which, with bilateral agreements and the system in place, we are trying to extend it so that we can recover this debt, so that the debt which Danes have to respond to, and so that foreign citizens who come to Denmark and receive public benefits in Denmark, as su is, also respond to their debts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130815	I would like to hear what the rapporteur really thinks would happen, so if we now said that until we get these things in place, we will stop for su-loans to foreign students. If we just did it tomorrow, what would happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130840	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentioned earlier that you could use the emergency food in this area. And I sense that's the same thing you're saying right now, so the situation is so serious that you could pull the hand brake. After all, emergency law is a legal expression of the saying that distress violates all laws. However, emergency law is also punishable if there are legal means to resolve the problem instead. That is why we have a number of initiatives which have just been put forward to solve the problem. And perhaps you have to look at them before you resort to introducing something that we know will run counter to the rules we have signed ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130916	Thank you. Then we don't have any more on the list. We thank the rapporteur, and then we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223130930	Thank you very much. In the Enhedslisten we think it is very good that foreigners can come here to study. We also think that it is fine if some of them choose to stay and get so attached that they also seek Danish citizenship. We must not be a small closed country; we can learn something from the strangers, just as they can hopefully be part of us. We also think it is good that foreigners can gain the right to Danish su if we control the rules ourselves, as we do in relation to foreigners from third countries. But things have to be right, and there isn't. The reason for the proposal we are discussing here is, of course, the fact that everyone in the Danish Parliament is aware of, namely that foreign students together owe a great deal of money to Danish taxpayers. I was a little confused by the Minister's figures and had to check some answers we have received, and I have therefore come to the conclusion that this is over 400 million. kr. in Su loans which have not been repaid by foreign students and that students from EU countries together owe 123 million. kr. in what is called defaulted su-debt. That is in the answer to question 164. We can also see that the debt is growing. Worse still, we have to note that the Danish state obviously does not have effective recovery options. After all, it is positive that we in the Danish Parliament agree that we do not. It's nice that we can discuss what we do next. Then we have the particular problem with the European Union that we can see that it is not the Danish Parliament that controls the rules on how many EU citizens and which should have access to Danish su. It is the European Union that has decided this. We have actually influenced that. What is the problem there is that a few hours of work per week can give the status of what is called a migrant worker in the European Union language, and when you achieve that status, you are entitled to Danish su. The problem is, of course, that the Commission obviously does not care if we have the opportunity to recover the defaulted debts. Perhaps it could be 4-5 years, when it might not be able to be included in some revision of a regulation. Perhaps this is not possible at all, as the Minister suggests, because of the legal reservation. That is simply not good enough. We have noted in the Enhedslisten that this morning the Minister has informed us of a number of initiatives which he intends to take forward, that is to say the Minister for Taxation. We think they are excellent. The Enhedslisten has participated in the discussion of the initiatives, so it is good that they are put into effect. But it is our view that they are not as effective as the principle proposed here by the Danish People's Party and which we think is an excellent proposal. We think it is a good idea to introduce a temporary stop to student loans to foreign students, until there is an effective solution to those problems, either by means of mutual debt recovery agreements with individual countries or, in the case of EU countries, by means of clear common guidelines. Then it is said: 'Well, that will break with EU legislation.' Yeah, that's possible, but couldn't we even do some things in this Parliament that would boost the system? I believe that this is the kind of thing that needs to be done when we talk about the European Union. Each country must say: here we have a problem that the European Union has created for us, and if the European Union cannot figure out how to solve it, then we ourselves must take more effective steps. We cannot just go and wait for the EU system to resolve a problem that we can solve ourselves. Then there will probably be dangerous trouble, and the Court of Justice will get on the ground, and what do I know: let us take it when it comes, instead of imposing all that submissive self-censorship on us in advance, so that, for fear that the European Union might scold us, we do not dare to do anything that is actually quite reasonable in everyone's eyes. We just have a few conditions that we would like to see met so that we can support this proposal. I do not really hope and believe that the Danish People's Party disagrees, but it is a little important for us to stress that it must not hit foreign students who have already made an agreement with open eyes, and we must stand by that. The proposal should not affect indigenous refugees and their families with a residence permit or temporary residence permit or, for that matter, future refugees. The proposal should not affect foreign students from countries with which Denmark may already have an agreement on the recovery of defaulted student debts. At least I think the Danish People's Party agrees with that. Finally, it should only lead to a temporary stop for payment of sugar. The possibility of borrowing must therefore be resumed for foreign nationals as soon as an agreement has been reached with the mother country on the possible recovery of the debt. If we can clarify those points, we will be happy to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131436	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131446	Thank you for that, President. With motion for a resolution B-64 the Danish People's Party is bringing up a very important problem. Today there are far too many foreign students who fail or, to put it bluntly in Danish, slip their student debt. It's expensive, immoral and annoying, and that's why it doesn't work. Should we then introduce a temporary stop to the EU and EEA complications that the Minister has already explained, or should we back the range of initiatives that have also been examined? There I think the Folketing should go the way the government is proposing, because this will lead to debt being recovered, while at the same time saving us from the complications that have also been mentioned. We therefore agree that the problem described by the Danish People's Party is important and that action needs to be taken, but as we also support the solution proposed by the government, it is clear that it is the DF's solution that must give way, and that is the one we cannot support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131615	Thank you. There is one brief comment, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131619	Thank you. I'm wondering again that it's being interpreted as if it's an either-or. To me, it's a boat and... After all, our resolution is also about a temporary stop until the solutions are found. Then I can wonder what the Liberal Alliance really means. When we made the proposal, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen that the proposal was excellent and immediately sensible. Then I think that when it is, it would surely be an excellent solution here and now, until we have the permanent solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131659	The reason why we in the Liberal Alliance have a system of rapporteurs is to ensure that the individual MFs are fairly well in the business before they give their opinion on them. So what people who are not rapporteurs want to say must be at their own expense. Whoever draws the party in these questions is me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131722	Then it's round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131726	That, of course, is the way it can be interpreted. Then I know where to ask if I'm going to hear what the Liberal Alliance means in these areas. However, the rapporteur did sound a bit like that, as if it were the case that these measures were now being taken, and then we will have a solution in the near future. I don't think I read from the suggestions that there's something that's going to happen. So it would not be fundamentally fair and fair to those who, in the words of the rapporteur, are obsessing with their student loans to say: No, you cannot get loans until we get those solutions and the agreements in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131806	In other words, there is no doubt at all about where this matter stands morally, but it is usually the case that only there is a danger of some kind of process risk in relation to, for example, the case. The EU, the government chooses to wear belts and belts and safety shoes and a protective helmet, which is why we do not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131829	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131832	Thank you. But what happens to the Liberal Alliance? Well, I can at least understand from an article I have read of 16 January 2018 that Liberal Alliance's tax rapporteur, Joachim B. Olsen, calls the Danish People's Party's proposal excellent and immediately sensible. So what's going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131902	Yeah, what's going on? In other words, it is the education rapporteur who draws the party in this area, and the education rapporteur thinks what the education rapporteur has just said, and when the tax rapporteur says what the tax rapporteur says, it is at his own expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131921	The questioner for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223131925	Thank you. However, it would have been appropriate if the Liberal Alliance Education Rapporteur had immediately put the party's tax rapporteur in place when he spoke to the media here over a month ago. I don't think I've seen a dementia like that. Because the education rapporteur should have responded to that. Or is it really because the tax rapporteur came to say what is actually the position of the Liberal Alliance, but that somebody has subsequently told you by some relevant minister that you are now in government, and that is quite another thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132003	I took note when Mr. Finn Sørensen was on the platform earlier that Mr. Finn Sørensen has an incredibly liberal attitude that the government can bend all kinds of international rules and take the chance, and bad about there being a process risk, and we just do it, and gung-ho. These are some exciting notes from the Enhedslisten, which might also apply to e.g. the Minister of Integration and the way in which she manages her office. So we are glad that the Enhedslisten has now embarked on a style of such fresh initiatives that run counter to all possible common sense in relation to the problems that may exist. But if I had seen the statement that had come to me now, I missed this one, I guess I'd have just made an outcry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132052	Thank you. Then there's no more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the alternative rapporteur. It's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132100	It is of course a problem that Denmark cannot recover debts from foreign students who do not stay in Denmark after completing education. However, in our optics, there are no easy, quick solutions to this problem, but long-term and sustainable solutions, which are based on going in where we have made the rules, namely all of us in the European Union, and improving the rules in that area. The solution is not to break the commitments we have made with our own eyes open. It is because we are continuing where the government is also focused, precisely on changing the rules. Then I think it is important to bring in more perspectives when we are discussing this. First, there's the whole size of it. It is a problem that we cannot get that money in, but when we look at what is generally due to su loans, as the Minister said, we have a bigger problem there. Then there is also the problem of debt recovery if students move from Denmark after completing their education. However, the proposers refer to the Ministry of Education and Research, and we see that it is actually over half who stays in Denmark and there we can recover debts. So how about working to get more people to stay in Denmark, as another proposal from the Danish People's Party just mentions, namely this language term bank, precisely that we must retain the foreign students. It is also a proactive way of tackling the challenge we face. Then we should also remember that the many students who actually stay in Denmark are a very good business as such for Denmark. We know this from the report that came from the Think Tank of Europe in 2016. In particular, they point out that students from Eastern Europe are a really good business for us because they stay here, get jobs and thus pay taxes and help put money into the common fund. That is why it is also funny when the motion for a resolution refers explicitly to the increase of foreign students from Romania. But we can see from the answer to question No. 8, we obtained from the Minister of Education and Research on 22 November that Germany, Iceland, Sweden and Norway are some of the countries from which the highest number of foreign students who default are sovereign. And unlike that, it's actually only 28 Romanians. So it's a little funny about the different numbers you choose to put into the comments on such a resolution here, i.e. what we really need to look at. So all in all, of course, we share the frustration that there is some debt that is being breached, we must do something about that, we must do something about the places where the challenge is, and that is to say. in the European Union, where we join the other Member States in changing these rules. The government is pressing for this, and we must, of course, support it by the Danish Parliament. Finally, I would like to say that I also think it is very important that in these debates we do not suspect and demonise the many foreign students who are actually going to Denmark to improve their skills and who enrich our country and our educational institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132415	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132425	Thank you. Debt must be paid, of course it must. It is quite unacceptable not to pay your debts. That's how I was raised, and I hope you are, and most of them are. There are so many foreign students who owe, as I understood from the Minister, 80 million. DKK, and Danish former students who owe 1⁄2 billion. kr. in student debt. It is immoral, but it probably shows that the group of immoral people is so neatly constant, regardless of their background. We must, of course, take action on this. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Education and the Minister for Tax has announced a number of concrete initiatives. We support them in the Radical Left. Debt must be recovered and we must do so in all the ways we can. And we'd rather work together with others. It makes most sense when it is cross-border, and that is why I regret once again the legal reservation which prevents us from being able to participate in joint debt recovery agreements. It is not the EU's fault that we cannot recover debts, Mr. Finn Sørensen. Unfortunately, it is the case that we are not included in these agreements because we have a legal reservation, as Mr. Finn Sørensen and his party have supported. We have to draw the consequences from this, and then we have to see if we can make as many agreements on it as possible. I understand that the initiative of the Minister for Education and the Minister for Tax is that this will be worked for, and we warmly support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132619	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132622	Thank you. I just want to confirm that it is not the European Union's fault. What is the EU's fault is that there are EU rules that mean that we do not decide for ourselves how many foreign students from EU/EEA countries we have to grant su-loans to. However, it is our own fault that we have agreed to those rules, and it is also our own fault that we do not use an obvious simple and reasonable grip, such as the one proposed in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132656	Thank you for that confirmation. I did not see the rapporteur's speech that way. It is our own responsibility to work together, and it is, of course, a statement of how incredibly many benefits there are, among other things. for Danish students by being part of the European Union, which gives them a wealth of advantages over exchange. I'll fight for that until I die. But I understand that Mr. Finn Sørensen takes responsibility in relation to the concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132720	Sir. Finn Sørensen in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132725	I hope, then, that everyone will take responsibility, including those politicians who think that it is wonderful that we have joined a system in which we cannot decide for ourselves how many foreign EU/EEA citizens we are going to lend students and what rules should apply and that we have thus cut ourselves off from using the largely sensible rules that apply to third-country nationals. I think the rapporteur should also take that responsibility on board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132753	I am doing so, because with rights there are obligations and they are mutual. You can't just get off the table and don't give anything back. That is what the European Union is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132804	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur. It's sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223132812	This is an important issue raised by the Danish People's Party with this motion for a resolution. And, as others have said, we also find it a pity that so many people do not pay their debts. It is part of being a citizen of society that when you have debts, including to the public, you obviously have to pay back. It is a requirement that we make to ourselves here in Denmark, but which must also be made to the foreign students who come to Denmark. So, like others, I fully agree that the issue is important and relevant. The question then is how to deal with it. I have to say that I think the Minister made a number of good arguments that we should not vote in favour of this proposal. There were, in fact, consistent arguments for this, I think. First of all, there are initiatives that have begun, or rather have been announced today. That is why we are also acting on it. That's what you have to do. But you do it in a way that does not conflict with EU law. I do not think we should do that either, because, as the Minister also pointed out, there is, in our opinion, a difference of opinion over the authors of the motion for a resolution, so that there may be very great advantages to our cooperation in the European Union. There may be cases where you have to take the big crash in relation to the EU, I will not rule that out at all, but it is not here that you have to do it. Using the term emergency law is completely beside this problem because, as the Minister said, many Danish students also owe abroad. There is a very large su-debt in Denmark, but it is primarily Danes who owe in relation to the government. That is why I think that the Danish People's Party should be thanked for raising the discussion here. We cannot vote in favour of this proposal, but we are very happy to follow the way in which the government continues its initiatives to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133038	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133044	I would like to hear from the rapporteur why we should be so afraid of the European Union when it is recognised that this is a problem and that we need to do something about it. Yes, there are some initiatives that may once produce some results, but it has not come any longer. It just came out today. And the description says that it is something that has very long prospects. Why should we be so afraid to tell the European Union that this is just not right, so we will stop now until we get those agreements in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133121	Well, as was also said, there is reciprocity in this. It is also the case that Danish students have advantages in being able to study abroad, and there are also Danish students who have debts in relation to abroad. That is why this is not a one-sided Danish problem, it is some major problem. Therefore, it can't help anything that a single country is now suddenly going to make this big crash in relation to EU law. We are not in favour of this and, as I said, we think it is a good thing that the government has started to resolve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133157	Then it's round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133159	It is new to me that there is a large group of Danish students who have su-debts abroad. I do not know exactly where they have studied and where they have got su loans, which they then come here to Denmark and do not pay back. Then I think we should go in and make an agreement with those countries, because they are probably very interested in making the agreement. Then we can help them get their su debts back, and they can help us get ours. So I don't think that's a reason to say it's a huge crash. After all, it is a question of saying that now we need to get this in place and until we get it, there will be no more su-loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133233	But there is nothing wrong with agreements being made with other countries. We don't mind. However, it must only be kept within the scope of current international law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133243	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133247	Thank you. Now there are two parts of the problem. One part is nationals of third countries. There, without difficulty, we can introduce the rule there, at least we will not be at odds with the European Union, if that is what you are afraid of, namely that if we cannot get a mutual agreement on debt recovery, we will not grant loans to foreign students from that country. Will the rapporteur support that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133313	In fact, we think that the government has addressed this problem and that is why we do not support the proposals of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133319	Sir. Finn Sørensen in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133324	We can only note that exactly that tool is not in the toolbox, although we must all admit that it is the most effective tool. So why not just support that part? Then it might be that we could make a report on that. In fact, most of the debt is in the hands of students from third countries. So why not just support that part? It may be that we can make a sensible report in committee so that we can give the government a really effective tool to have in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133355	We are always willing to discuss reports on private resolutions. This is often a good way to move on. If a report can be made on this, we are not opposed to taking part in the discussion of it. But it is something other than voting for this proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133414	I have no more on the list for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. I see that there is no rapporteur for Conservatives, so we go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Conservatives. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133435	Thank you for the debate here today. It was a bit of a surprise when I saw last night in the press that the government had made a plan for a stronger effort in terms of recovering su-debt abroad. It was not the case, as the Minister mentioned earlier, that I was disappointed or thought it was a bad idea. I thought it was a pleasant surprise that it came, because then there could also be some input from the discussion we have this afternoon. So that is absolutely welcome, and I can then welcome the fact that the resolution has had that effect. The real point of departure for the resolution was, of course, that we did not have a feeling that we could do something or were prepared to do something. Now we have heard about the new effort. So what are we gonna get? We get two tracks, and that's good, because if one track is blocked, we have the other one to run on. Within the one track, the national track, the Debt Authority will have a special unit, and it is good that it will be sitting some who will try to recover the debt. I was probably somewhere so naive to think that it was probably sitting there and looking at in advance, but that should not be an obstacle to it. Then there is a pilot project to use foreign debt collection companies and forcibly recover through legal proceedings in Denmark, which will subsequently form the basis for enforcement in other EU countries, and it is of course also worth an attempt to make some pilot projects on it. Finally, in the national track there is an obligation to provide information on addresses. The obligation which I read about in the proposal has already been described, because the obligation is today, under the terms of the su-loan, that su-loan is due for immediate redemption if the borrower moves abroad and does not give a new address. But it is good to stress that one has a duty to tell us where one is going so that we can get the money scratched in. So fine with that. Then there is the international track, track two; it sounds almost like a giveaway. The first is Nordic cooperation, which means agreements with the other Nordic countries. The next item is bilateral agreements with other countries, first of all Germany, Great Britain and Poland, because it is the countries which, together with the Nordic countries, have the most citizens with defaulted debts. It is also very good, it is countries that are right around us, and if we could not also get some agreements with the Scandinavian countries, I would think it was strange. I hope you can do that relatively quickly. The third and final point in track two is then a new EU tool, and it may sound a little more heavy and perhaps a little more uphill. I do not have the impression that the EU system has so far been particularly accommodating in trying to find solutions, but one is always allowed to hope, and it is, of course, good that the government is doing something. However, as is also written in the preface for the playout, there are unfortunately no easy solutions and more of the initiatives will take time. That's probably right. So my conclusion here today is that I welcome the government's efforts, but that I still think it would be a good idea to stop for new loans. It could then give us time to test all the measures, since there are enough debts to practice on, and then we can open up again once we've got a clear track of where the two tracks lead us. With that I would like to thank you very much for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133747	No one has brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180223133802	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 27 February 2018. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
