ParlaMint-DK_20180320130032	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320130043	We'll start with the questioning lesson for the PM. And I will start by giving the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320130048	Thank you. It's going pretty well in Denmark. The economy is in top shape, unemployment is low, employment is almost historically high, the influx of asylum has come under control, and today we have received new figures which show that more young people are now applying to vocational training. We're not there yet. Much more needs to be done. But it's positive after a flat, flat curve that today we've got numbers that show that 19.4%. versus 18.5%. Last year has applied. This shows that the effort bears fruit. That is very positive. After all, this must make us all stick to the efforts to make our vocational training attractive. So things are going in many ways sensible and well in Denmark. But if you take a look and look all over the world, things will look a lot more varied right away. Russia is high on the international agenda in these weeks for several reasons, among others. because, to put it mildly, the election results in the presidential elections last Sunday and because of the attempted murder of Russian-developed chemical weapons last week in Britain. I strongly condemn that. Those responsible must be called to account. Together with the British and our international partners, we are now looking at how best we can together support Britain. That is why I expect it to be a central theme when I meet the other Heads of State or Government in Brussels on Thursday and Friday this week. There are also other parts of this bizarre world picture that are going to be discussed there. I expect us, for example. to discuss Trumps in my view deeply harmful and short-term statements about imposing duties on steel and aluminium. Our welfare is based on free trade. Free trade is not a zero sum game: if some win, others lose. We all win. Measures such as those which have now been launched go in the opposite direction, and we can only say that clearly. The European Union is now the strongest voice for free trade back on the global stage, and that is why the European Union must also be prepared to respond in a balanced way to the unreasonable US action if necessary. Then we'll discuss Brexit again. Since June 2016, we have been waiting for the British themselves to find out what future relationship with the European Union they want. We're still waiting. I do not think that the British are really fully aware of how they will get out of the morass in which they have brought themselves. Therefore, the EU of 27 must now negotiate on what the British do not want, rather than on what they want. On the other hand, it is positive that an interim agreement with the British on a transitional regime was reached this weekend by 2020. This gives more time to land a good and balanced future agreement. On Friday, there will be a Euro Summit where the economy and Europe's competitive power will be discussed. These are important issues that also affect us Danes, but then I have returned home for early weekend, because we Danes have decided that we will not sit at the table. I have to say that it annoys me on behalf of Denmark when we place ourselves on the sidelines. We live in a troubled time, a time when the balance of power is changing, when the world is becoming less secure and when decisive decisions are being taken, which have far-reaching consequences for Denmark too, and Denmark has a clear and unambiguous affiliation with our allies in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320130502	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. I would point out that when the questioner and the Prime Minister have both had the two minutes' speaking time, then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have one minute's speaking time. First, it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320130524	I would actually like to sign both for the Prime Minister's words about Britain and for the need to stand with the British on the issue of Russia's act and also for the Prime Minister's disapproval of the US President's in my view quite the wrong focus on trade, not least in the steel sector right now. Then a positive receipt for those words. Then I would actually like to talk about something quite different from foreign policy. I would like to talk about the tenants, i.e. the approx. 1 million Danes living for rent in the general sector. These are not some that we talk about so much in Danish politics, and this is really strange, because there are a great many of our pensioners who live in very many ordinary families of children, and there are many people with disabilities living in general housing. After all, it is a form of housing which many Danes enjoy and which should therefore, in my view, be much higher on the political agenda. Unfortunately, with this government, it is as if every time we are going to have a big debate, it is very difficult to understand the conditions of the tenants. When we were negotiating housing taxes, there was nothing in the government's proposal about the security of tenants. Fortunately, we negotiated that. When we were discussing planning law, the government was very concerned about having the municipalities canceled the possibility of requiring that general housing should be built, even in the future. Fortunately, we negotiated that too. Now it looks like we're gonna start over. The government has presented a great ghetto plan, which contains a great many good things, and I look forward to the further negotiations. At the same time, however, a very one-sided focus has been decided that it is the land's tenants who have to pay the entire bill, and I would like to express my concern about this, but also my disagreement. One is that the Landsbygningsfond and thus the tenants' money are to be used to renovate the general sector. That is quite reasonable, it has been so for many years. But that it is also, and indeed only, the country's tenants who have to pay for everything else that concerns the vulnerable residential areas, for example. If more children are going to day care, I actually think that is not fair. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is quite simple: why are only those who live for rent in the general sector who have to pay the bill that should be paid by all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320130750	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320130751	Thank you. Let me start by signing for the receipt, which, as such, underlines that in relation to Denmark's interests up against the rest of the world, there are a lot of things that gather us together. It is also worth holding on to. So on the second question: I look at it a little differently. I don't see it as an indication that the tenants have to pay. I see it as an indication that we are facing a number of years when state subsidies to the general sector may fall because a number of the loans that have been taken in the general sector have simply been paid out. And this is completely in line with the whole mechanism of the general housing sector. If you go back to 1966 and this isn't after my memory, I have to admit that; I've read that to where the Landsbydfonden was founded, you can see what the intention is. And the government's proposal, which we have to negotiate, also thanks for the positiveness about it, by the way, does not add up to rent increases at all. It is the case that rents in the general housing sector constitute a fixed rate of 2.8%. the purchase price of the new building, and we are not tampering with that. But without tampering with it, given that some loans in the sector are paid out, we can free up an amount. That is the part of the proposal that concerns the grant aid. Then I would like to take note and welcome what was said about the second part, that is to say the renovation task, where we are putting forward everything for negotiation and investing 12 billion. kr. targeted in these ghetto areas. This still leaves a considerable amount of money from the Landsbygningsfonden to the rest of the general sector, and in addition there is also extensive unaided renovation, which means saved up in the rent in the individual department. And I guess it runs into something that looks like 4 billion. kr. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131007	Then it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131008	I think we will have to go back to the grant aid, because I think it is actually a very good principle that when new general housing is to be built in Denmark, we all make a contribution to it. Well, most of us are going to use the general housing sector at some point. Some have their own residence through life, but at some point age will also have to print there, and then you need, for example, a senior housing community or some other form of general housing. So the idea that everyone is helping to build new homes, I actually want to hold on to. That is why it does not matter what the cash flow in the Landsbygningsfonden is, because when you have to write the conclusion, at least in relation to the government's proposal. I hope that we can then change it, it is that it is the tenants in the general sector who not only have to finance the renovation of the vulnerable housing areas, which are not the vast majority of the general sector, but also, if you take out the municipal cofinancing, only have to finance the new building. However, it is also only the tenants who have to pay for an extra effort in the area of school and day care. For the vulnerable children who need help there, the best thing would be if their parents could contribute to it themselves, but otherwise it would have to be the whole of society. I don't think it's fair that the country's tenants should pay the whole bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131124	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131125	But I just have to say that I do not agree with the way it is described. I mean, this is paid through state subsidies, which are getting smaller, and the state subsidies are not paid by the tenants. State subsidies are paid by all of us, all of us who pay taxes. And part of that tax we have then used to support a low rent in the general sector, because we have thus decided politically that the rent should be 2.80%. of the purchase price of the new building. When it happens in the housing stock that there are some housing loans that fall away, i.e. some payments that are paid, then there is a need for a small subsidy to maintain the rent, and therefore we can now reduce the state's subsidies. And that means that all taxpayers' money can now, to some extent, be converted from benefit support to another good purpose. I also understand that we agree on this: a targeted effort so that the children who grow up in residential areas, where they have a worse starting point in life, can get a better start.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131236	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131238	But this isn't just a matter of the rent. Keeping the rent down in the general sector is an errand in itself, but it is also renovation, because a great many of the common homes we have in Denmark today are not located in the exposed residential areas. In other words, the vast majority of people who live in Denmark have a job; or at least they have had it and have become retired. They don't commit crime. They need a decent accommodation, and if that accommodation is to continue to have a high standard and that's what the general sector has in Denmark opposite in most other countries, then it also needs to be renovated on an ongoing basis. And a lot of the general sector in Denmark was built in the post-war period, which is why we are facing some really big tasks. There was a very picturesque example of this the other day with a man whose fall trunk had broken, and it is not nice for any human being. However, this is a good example of the fact that renovating in the general sector is absolutely necessary for the ordinary everyday welfare of tenants. Mold is another good example. However, it is also important for us to have a general sector of such quality in the future that we will be familiar with it and that it will, moreover, remain a natural choice for one million Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131348	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131350	Thank you. Now I did not go into the issue of renovation because the questioner wanted to talk about the grant aid just now. I have explained this, and it is evidently welcomed and good for it. Because it is important for me to stress that the reduced subsidy does not shake the rent. Nothing's gonna happen to the rent. Then it is true that in relation to the funds in the Landsbygningsfond for renovation, the government is proposing that we target some more for these areas, and that can be discussed. Clearly, if you do not have the will to target as much as the government has proposed, you can do less. But just to get the proportions in place, it is the case that since 2011 I am talking about a period which Mrs Mette Frederiksen has also had a partial responsibility for... up to half of the Fund's resources have been spent in these areas. And what the government is up to now is that we increase it to just over half. I shall refrain from mentioning certain precise percentages, because it will be after memory, and maybe I can do it wrong, but that is what is the level: that is, from just under half to over half, and in our opinion, in a way where there is still a good amount of money left of funds to renovate plus the 4 billion. kr. in unsupported funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131506	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131515	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks, although I do not really know whether he was about to issue a referendum on an EU reservation or what was in the cards when he was so sad to go home from Brussels a little earlier than he was supposed to. I thought it was a happy thing for the Prime Minister that he came home early this weekend, because a prime minister usually has a lot to do, so that must be fantastic. Well, a comment about the Landsbygningsfonden. I think it's incredibly important that we dig deep into this. We are not sure that the government's proposal is as it should be. It is the case that if you take money from something that would otherwise be able to go to renovations and use it to pay for some other things, then there is less money for renovations, and if you choose to say that money should be spent in ghetto areas or in other parts of the general sector, then there is only less money to be made available. After all, the government wants to take money from what we would otherwise have in the Landsbygningsfonden to pay for some other bills in the ghetto negotiations, and I think that is certainly worth going into depth to find out whether it is right from the government, or whether it really should be said to the citizens who live in general housing anywhere else than in the ghetto areas that the bill that is left here should be less than what the government has proposed. So I look forward to it. What I would then like to ask is something else that I have mentioned to the Prime Minister in the past, and it is a subject that concerns me and the Danish People's Party very much, namely family reunifications. Germany has now had a government after six months, and the government's basis shows that they want to have a ceiling on family reunification for certain groups of refugees of 12 000 per year, that is to say 1,000 per month. A corresponding ceiling would be converted into Danish equivalent to 830-840 in Denmark. The question to the Prime Minister here today as a follow-up to previous discussions we have had about this is: Paragraph 1: Will the Prime Minister contact the German Government to find out exactly how they will translate this part of the government base? Paragraph 2: Will the Prime Minister at least contribute to what the Germans are going to do, can we also do here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131723	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131724	Thank you. I will answer the question, but allow me to make a few comments on the other points, since the whole play was about some other things. No, I am not putting out a referendum here, I am not, but I am standing here marking that we need to have a debate in Denmark about our relationship with Europe. There is a debate going on throughout Europe at the moment, which is about how the European Union should develop, and we must also be part of that debate, and we need to embrace that debate in a way that not only talks about how Europe should develop, but also talks about what our relationship with the European Union should be. We have some reservations and, of course, we respect them until they are changed, but we have to break the taboo that we cannot discuss the reservations. Now take the defence reserve, which in a number of situations makes Denmark unable to participate in reconstruction in areas where we may otherwise have been in sharp missions. That is not very appropriate, and that is what I said. Then, of course, I am quite prepared to go into detail on all the issues in the negotiations. The government has presented what we think is a balanced bid that makes it possible to combat the ghettos and dismantle them, and if you do not want to finance what we have proposed, then you can either choose to do less, which I would very much regret, because we need to get rid of the ghettos, or make suggestions on where to find the money as an alternative. But that is what we have negotiations for. So to the question whether the government will make contact with the German authorities, I can say that we can and will do so with certainty and that we have done so. To put it a little square, it is quite unclear to me at the moment what lies in the wordings of the German Government, in other words how it is to be translated in administrative and legal terms into something that can be implemented in reality. So, of course, we are working to clarify that. It is difficult for me to stand and commit myself to doing something specific that is unresolved, but I fully share the view that we must keep the influx of asylum down, and I therefore also welcome the fact that the more than 70 tightenings we have made up against large parts of the left wing's votes have had the desired effect, so we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers for nine years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131950	Sir. Christian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320131952	Thank you, Prime Minister. I just want to say that I would very, very much like to discuss the European Union, all sorts of facets of the European Union. I have often experienced that it has been difficult to get some real commitment into that debate, because it has always had to be about whether the European Union should decide something more, and it has been very difficult to have a real debate about whether the European Union should decide something less and leave something more to the nation states. So a real debate about the European Union and Denmark's association with the European Union would, I think, be fantastic. We'd love to. But there was such an annoyance in the Prime Minister's opening words, which could lead to it being only about whether there were places where the EU should have more to say in relation to the nation states. But this is a debate that we can enter into. In relation to Germany, it can be said that it is true that the Germans will of course have a discussion with themselves on how this should be implemented. But that is something that is contained in the government's basis and which, if necessary, will come into force from 1 July of this year. And that means that it must be assumed that the current German Minister for the Interior, who was a sharp critic of Chancellor Merkel's actions in 2015, when one million people migrated through Europe, will speed things up here. And that's where I think it's incredibly important that Denmark clings to. Therefore, I have the second question that I asked, but which the Prime Minister did not answer, but so: If the Germans find the formula for how they will deal with this, will the Prime Minister be prepared to attach ourselves to that tool in Denmark too, so that we will also have limited family reunifications to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132115	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132116	Now it can be said that the reservations do not mean that Europe generally has to decide something more. So it is a question of whether Denmark should engage in the parts of the work that we have chosen to put ourselves outside. But it is then a debate that we are going to have, and I think we need that too. It's going to be a little repetitive compared to what I just answered. So, I see what the government's basis says, and we are working hard to find someone in Germany who is able to explain what that means. I must put it that way, and I would very much like to come back once we have gained the knowledge whether this matters or whether it is declarations of intent in that case it will not be the first time. After all, everyone remembers the debate from Austria, where quotas were set. And I just have to say that when you talked to Austrian colleagues at that time and asked them to explain what kind of mechanism was behind it and what would happen if the quota were broken, you were met by very, very empty eyes. But we are following it closely, because of course we have an interest in following it closely, and so I have almost the answer to the other. For we want to keep the number of asylum seekers and family reunifications low, with respect for international conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132238	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the last question
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132240	Thank you very much. Now there is a big difference between the EU countries and European countries at all, because there is a big difference in size. And you certainly have a feeling, when you have followed what rules we are otherwise jointly subject to, that there is little difference between how people dispose of those rules. In other words, if Denmark had broken the Dublin Regulation and so on. In 2015, as Chancellor Merkel did, when she allowed quite a lot of people to wander across Europe, I do not think it had been dealt with quite in the same way as now, when Germany has chosen to do so. It can be said that the ruling within Germany has been tough on her, and they are responding to that, among other things. with this desire to establish a ceiling. That is why I think the Prime Minister could be a little clearer. One thing is that it can be said that it can be difficult to find the tool, but if the Germans find a tool to create a ceiling, it is of course a political expression from here, whether they are prepared to keep up with and thus establish a ceiling for Denmark. In relation to the conventions which otherwise always stand in the way of doing such a thing and which the Prime Minister also refers to, there is probably little difference between Germany leading the way in the question of where the limit is in relation to the conventions, or that alone is Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132352	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132353	Yes, I do not know, because the whole idea of having international conventions and an international set of rules is, of course, that we have to live with an international legal order where the same rules apply to the small one as to the large one. And that is why I agree that yes, we must challenge international conventions, international norms, past ways of thinking, and we have done so by God in Denmark. And that is one of the reasons why Denmark has a better starting point than so many other countries. So, I think that when there are to be elections in Sweden later this year, it will be an election campaign based on the fact that 300,000 new people have entered Sweden since the Swedes last went to elections. And now, Sweden is a larger country than Denmark, but so, you can make calculations from them, and then you can look at the Danish figures, and there you can see the effect of the fact that we have taken the lead and dared it, and we must continue to do so. That is also why we are following with interest what the Germans are doing. We do this because we have an interest in following it, because we have the political starting point, that we must keep the number of asylum seekers as low as possible and the number of family reunifications as low as possible. However, to stand and bind me in advance to do something in a certain German way that I do not know what is, without knowing whether it will have the desired effect in Denmark, one does not make me do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132519	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132526	Thank you. I would like to talk about the public collective bargaining. They're going to the Conciliation Institution right now, and there's a deadline next week. We don't know what's going on, and we don't have to start talking about what's going on in there either. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that in the Enhedslisten we believe that public employees have earned fair pay and some respect, and that, after years of narrowness and wage restraint in the public sector, too, it is becoming their turn. In addition to that, however, it has led to a great deal of debate on the Danish model in particular. It's been thrown a little bit around with it, you might say. I think it is important to note that the Danish model is not quite the same in the public and private sectors. Well, first of all, in the private sector, for example. If they have a strike, then employers lose money on it, and vice versa they can lock out. In the public sector, the employer saves money, both by lockout and by strike, and at the same time there are also emergency measures which mean that, for good reasons, the employees cannot shut down production, which is what we are doing, for example. can do in a private company. That's the one difference. The second difference is that in the public sector the government not only acts as an employer via the Ministry of Finance and the Modernisation Board, which has been given the political training that they have to control wages in the public sector, but at the same time it is also the government that may have to break up a conflict through a government base in the end. That is why there is a certain dual role. The two things mean that the playing field is not quite smooth when it comes to public conflicts. There is a stupid double role for the government, and the workers' strike weapons are not quite as large as the government's lockout weapons. That is why I would like to ask the Minister, who is under ministerial responsibility, down here in the Chamber: has there or has there not been any discussion in the government about any future government intervention?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132736	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132738	I would like to talk about agreement, says the questioner. I do not want to, because collective bargaining is something that is being conducted between the parties, and I am not a party. It is the case that the state's chief employer is the minister I have given it the resort, and that is the Minister for Modernisation. It is she who conducts the negotiations on behalf of the state, just as it is the chief negotiator in the municipalities and Danske Regions who leads them there. It's not me. And it is disrespectful to the Danish model if I should stand here and discuss collective bargaining. Moreover, this is not conducive to the solution of the matter either. That is why I would just like to make the general recommendation that we should hold back. Because if you start sending out signals that the solution lies here in the Assembly Hall and not in the Conciliation Institution, you just increase the probability that the solution lies in the Assembly Hall and not in the Conciliation Institution. That is why I have actually answered that question, because there is no intervention to be taken at the moment when negotiations are under way. And I have the pious wish that these negotiations should come to an agreement. I note that the Minister for Modernisation has clearly signalled a desire to agree on wages, in line with what is also known in the private labour market. I note that the Minister of Modernisation, in relation to the second core point of the state area, has very clearly signalled that there is no intention to include the staff lunch. And it is on that basis that the negotiations are now being conducted, and I hope they will end up happy. When it is said that there is the big difference, that in the private labour market employers can lose out on it and that you cannot do it here, I would say that I think this is a truth with great modifications, because we are all the Danes, so the employer, and we will all lose out if there is a conflict. Well, it's a loss of prosperity for all of us if there's a conflict if our kids can't get to school and get better if we can't get to the hospital and get surgery.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132956	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320132959	I think we are all interested in an agreement, not least the public employees, but the Prime Minister simply did not reply to what I asked. After all, there was no clear answer to whether or not government action has been discussed. I do not think that this will reduce the concern very much, to put it mildly, among the many public employees who are potentially, hopefully, not, but potentially facing a major conflict. I think there are a lot of people out there thinking back to the 2013 collective negotiations for teachers and the way they were treated, fighting and fighting for some matters, and then it turned out that the intervention was planned a long time in advance. I also believe that it can be very difficult for a great many to distinguish between the chief negotiator, Mrs Sophie Løhde, and the member of the government, Mrs Sophie Løhde, the minister. That distinction is really, really hard. There is a double role, and especially when the Minister of Finance himself writes on Twitter that it is the government that invites negotiations, then there is a confusion. All this creates some confusion, and this can be overcome if the Prime Minister wants to promise today, and that is the question: if there is an intervention, it will not be a unilateral intervention to the benefit of employers. It's the politician I'm asking here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133124	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133127	I don't quite understand the question. I understand all the words that come out of the questioner's mouth and things like that, but I do not really understand the purpose of the question. In other words, the fact that we have to stand and have a discussion about what the nature of some sort of intervention that none of us wants should have in a situation where negotiations are being held is not in any way conducive to resolving matters. I was not a member of any government in 2013, and I cannot stand by that, but if you want to seek some historical inspiration, you can go back to 2008, where I myself, as Minister of Finance, was the negotiating party and where it became very, very clear to the then Prime Minister that there was no mind to resolve the conflict in this Chamber, and that was, I suppose, what contributed to the solution being found. It was a long process in which one area was shut down, and then it was overruled by the Members. I think that it was BUPL then returned to the negotiating table, and there was a solution, but then the FOA came, and then the nurses came. So if you want to draw inspiration from how governments under Left leadership act, you should look there rather than look at 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133238	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133241	That was strikingly close to being an answer, I think, because what I am asking for, and I think that a great many civil servants would also like to know, is that we are just slightly smoothing out the playing field, that is to say, giving them a fair chance in these negotiations, so that hopefully it will end up with an agreement, but also if there is a conflict. I almost heard the Prime Minister promise that there would be no government intervention, and if it were to be so, it would certainly not be to the benefit of employers unilaterally, as happened in 2013. Isn't it true that I almost heard that promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133329	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133331	I don't know what was heard. I know what I said myself. And I just want to say, of course, that I'm not thinking about intervention at all. What should we do about it? Negotiations are under way, and if you start standing down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, whoever you are, and send out signals that if it does not land, we have a solution here, then you will not encourage it to land, because then those who can best reflect in the solution will make sure that it does not land. That's why you shouldn't be threatening to do a procedure. Rather, you should be threatening with the opposite. I think that, in respect of the Danish model, we must refrain from taking part in this discussion. It serves no purpose and appeal to both parties in these negotiations to show the flexibility that makes it possible to bridge points of view, for that is the case. I just have to say that from the outside and from the distance I see quite objectively that there are on the two knots that exist in the territory of the state, I find it very, very difficult to understand if it cannot be landed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133445	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133456	I very much agreed with much of what the Prime Minister started by saying in relation to the world in which we live, namely that there are many of the conditions on which we depend in the world that challenge us. It is about the international rules of play for trade that we have seen recently. It is about the international community of law, which can also be heard on a regular basis in this Chamber. However, I think the Prime Minister escaped one of the things we have so far shared to worry about: what is happening in a more fragmented media image when foreign states conspire to influence our positions and our support for some of these institutions and cause division between us. We agreed on that when we made defense compromises. There we should strengthen Denmark's ability to resist the influence campaigns, for example. have seen in the American election campaign and also in other democracies of our close allies where foreign powers have intervened. I believe that there are many of them who would like them to have a strong public service tradition such as the one we have in Denmark, where there is broad national support for some media that are independent, because they are also independent of other interests in their funding. Therefore, I have to say that when you have contributed to that analysis and have made a defence settlement aimed at it, it is still amazing to experience a government that so intently goes in and shaves the institution in Denmark, which may have the largest share of our public service tradition, namely Denmark's Radio. I understand that it is because you want Denmark's Radio to fill less, and that is why it needs to be cut by 20%. But the answer you owe is an answer to: What is it that you have seen angry that the Danes too much use the Danish Radio for? Is that for news and debate? Is it children's television, culture, drama, history? What is it in the uniting national institution that the Danes spend too much since it is believed that 20% cuts should be made, thereby undermining the public service tradition, which in my view is the best safeguard against not least foreign attitudes campaigns?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133712	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133713	Thank you. I fully agree that we need a strong Danish Radio. By the way, I also generally agree that we need a public service, not only connected to Denmark's Radio as an institution, but also produced by others and on other platforms. I agree with that. But that it should not go hand in hand with the fact that we are reducing the financial framework by 20%. over 5 years, then we have a Danish Radio left with a total budget of over 3 billion. kr., I simply do not agree. It is clear that there is a difference of 3 billion. kr. and 3 billion. kr. plus, and therefore it is also clear that with the framework agreed by the government with DF, follow-up has to be discussed and here there is also a particular task for Danmarks Radio • what it is then for a focus to be set. This is going to fall into some phase, because what we have agreed on with the parliamentary basis of the government is the framework and the transfer of the licence to the tax system, so we will have a fairer funding where the blacksees will also pay. It is followed by an initiative by the government, which comes on the other side of Easter, to discuss a media agreement in which I also hope that the Radical Left will join. There the government will give, one might say, its first structural offer of what the government thinks about Denmark's Radio, about channel provision etc. There will be a debate on this. Then I hope that there will be a broad political multi-year agreement which will provide the framework for a continued strong but also more focused Danish Radio.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133917	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320133920	But the Prime Minister must understand that it seems strange for the Danes to meet them with serious mine and say: Now we must strengthen our defences against the influence that is happening and that the battle for our brains and our hearts, which is taking place on all kinds of new media, must be strengthened with millions and millions extra for our cyber defence. But when it comes to the institution that the Danes most resort to in order to get their public service, the government believes that it is too much and that the Danes will need Denmark's Radio to a lesser extent in future, because Denmark's Radio needs to fill less. So what is it that the Danes use the Danish Radio too much for? Is this news and debate that the government believes should be dampened, that is, the consumption of publicly supported and independently produced news and debate by the Danes? Is that kids' TV? Is it culture? Is that drama? Is this story-telling? What is it that the Danes no longer need the Danish Radio for, since the government believes that one fifth of the budget can be dispensed with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134029	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134031	I am so surprised by this approach to the subject from a radical. I mean, why isn't there a proposal to spend 6 billion? kr. instead of 7 or 8 or 10 billion. kr., if everything is tied up on money? Apparently, you need exactly what you're using today, and then you hit the right balance point. But there we simply do not agree. So, the government believes that Denmark's Radio has an economic framework and, moreover, has also shown a history of managing the economic framework which makes it completely realistic that it is also within a framework that is smaller but still more than 3 billion. kr., can do good public service. And that will include the government's bid for what possible structural changes the government thinks should take place around channel offerings and other things, in order for frames and content to fit together. And I hope the Radical Left will join that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134140	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134142	We are always in search of higher opinion, and I agree with the Prime Minister that it is not meaningful to discuss the government's agreement, because you are not in a position to explain what that includes. We have to take that when the game comes, and of course we come to all the negotiations we are invited to. But I just want to say that I think it is a paradox that taxpayers' money can be easily spent on their cyber defences with a precise indication of it as something important, and then you shave down with the same ease on some of what should be our protection. I would like to conclude by accepting the call for a European political debate. I thought I heard the Prime Minister say perhaps between the lines that Denmark should be as close to the core as possible in European cooperation. It is not in the government base, it was in the previous one, and it has been in the last many, which is why I think it would be refreshing if it were an expression, and this government has actually come to the realization that it serves Denmark's interests best to be as close to the core of the European Union as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134238	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134240	Thank you. Can't I just arrest the expression with ease? In other words, we have had very, very thorough discussions, both in the government and with the Danish People's Party... our parliamentary basis... about how we make a forward-looking framework for Denmark's Radio, and not least about how we do away with the license, which has in many ways stood as a somewhat past way of financing public service, and which is something that young people find incredibly difficult to embrace because they cannot understand what it is they are paying for. It is therefore a question of how we can pass it on to the tax in a proper and fair way, where everyone gets along nicely. And that is the decision we have made, and it is a kind of framework that must then be filled out, and you can only see the whole picture when you have both the frame and the picture. And we'll come back with that after Easter. It is clear that then a multiannual agreement on the Danish Radio's economy will of course have to be formed on this premise as a premise, that is, the premise that we have used. And thank you for the commitment to participate in it. As far as Europe is concerned, I would just like to say that what I said was that we in Denmark are not bound by when there should be which referendums • need to have a debate on our future relationship. And when I want to start it, it's because I can see and it's not just around the corner, but in the coming years we'll be squeezed on our reservations one way or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134408	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Today's last question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134415	Thank you. We need to combat parallel societies and lift the socially vulnerable housing areas. I agree with the government on that. And this requires targeted action, not only social policy, prevention, but also the use of more robust means. But it has to be socially fair. And here I do not understand why the bill should be paid by pensioners, by young people, by the elderly, who live in well-functioning public housing and have the prospect of waiting even longer for their renovations that are needed. There is nothing in the draft law submitted by the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing about the money for the renovation of public housing outside the socially vulnerable residential areas. The National Association of Housing Companies has said that there is already a queue equivalent to 9 billion. kr. This means that no new renovations can be started until 2026. My own mother is a retired man today. She's out of 7th grade, she's formerly unskilled, and she lives in one of these homes. So she can look forward to a lot of years if she's still alive by then before she can get her home renovated. Lack of renovations affects general tenants in both youth and elderly homes, and the necessary renovations will be postponed. And typically they also become more expensive. Or does the government think that the tenants themselves should go to the pockets and pay more for themselves? Apartments that are not refurbished will then be less attractive at the same time, thus increasing the risk of new ghetto formations in the long term. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister is sure that the government's ghetto plan provides sufficient funds for the renovation of general housing, including elderly housing and youth housing outside the socially vulnerable housing areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134616	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134617	Thank you. It was almost entirely a copy of the question by the Social Democrat President. And I would like to congratulate you on finding a point where there is agreement on that side of Danish politics, because that might well be the case. My answers are a little the same, because I am trying to be consistent in what I say. We have put forward a package which envisages increasing the level of investment in a selected part of the general sector to 12 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. Is that a dramatic leap from the historical point of view? Unfortunately, I have to admit that it is not. It lifts the part of the Landsbygningsfonden we invest targetedly in these residential areas from something less than half to something just over half. So it's not crazy compared to what's been the historical profile. It still leaves a room for the Landsbygningfond to make major renovation projects in the general sector, plus that the whole system is built up in such a way that it also saves resources for maintenance in its rent. And that's why next to the Landsbygningsfond is after my memory in the vicinity of 4 billion. kr. in this sector, i.e. with unsupported funds. So I don't recognize the rhetoric that we're taking something from someone. But it will be a repeat of what I also replied to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. When you talk about making the general sector attractive, I also think that, in this picture, we are changing the part of the general sector that is categorized by being these residential areas where the unemployment rate is far too high, where the Danish language level is far too low, where the rate of crime is too high, where the concentration of people with a non-Western background is too high; that we clean up it; that we change those areas; that we create better and more balanced citizens' turnover. This will make the residential areas much more attractive, and it will also promote the general reputation of the general housing sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134830	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134832	Well, I don't think it's surprising that the Social Democrats and the SF are united in fighting for the tenants' cause in relation to this. That this is surprising to the Prime Minister, I think is a little bit comical, because if we look at it historically, it is not surprising that we fight for the tenants while you fight for the owners. It's always been the fight you've taken. But when I look at this question, the Prime Minister didn't actually give me an answer. In fact, I think it is very reasonable to get an answer to the question you ask, namely that when your own draft law says, what you are going to put forward, we are going to shoot future renovations, there is a shortage of 9 billion. kr., will the government just shoot it over to the private tenant or the non-profit tenant himself? Is that the answer the Prime Minister gave me when the Prime Minister said: you yourself have saved 4 billion? kr. Up? Does that mean they have to pay for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134927	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320134929	I don't quite understand this. I also don't understand the strange, square image that some people are with the owners and that some people are with the tenants. Well, we live in the whole first row over here for rent. I do not know what the questioner himself is doing, and it really is none of my business either. But it's such a square way. Let's say there's a million people living out there, and then you like to patent them. Hey! We want us to have a proper and composed form of housing in Denmark. That is what drives us, because we can see that there are some holes in the Danish map, where what has probably been completely finely thought back in the history of creating space and air and something like that has been turned into urban areas that appear to be Indian. We want to change that. It takes resources. And completely in line with the way in which previous governments have done so, we look at the Landsbygningsfonden and propose to reserve an amount of 12 billion. kr. And yes, it is at a higher level than that of the government that the questioner has at some point been involved in, but is it significantly more? It's not. I think after my memory, it increases the percentage from 47 to the mid-50s.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135048	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135051	Now I recognize the Prime Minister again, because the Prime Minister generally gets a little tired during Question Time and a little angry when we come to me. But it's nice. I am, in fact, also concerned with increasing this social effort in the non-profit sector, and there should be no doubt about that. I have lived in it for so many years of my life, so I know what the challenges are in the socially vulnerable residential areas. But I think there are some tenants who are left with a little bit of an insecure feeling in relation to the answers given by the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister has not answered that question about the 9 billion. kr., which is currently missing in relation to the renovations, just being postponed. Because I'm not talking about that percentage, about the 12 billion. kr. in relation to the general renovation of the Landsbygningsfonden. I am talking about the grant aid, which is 25%. from the state and 75%. from the Landsbygningsfonden. And that means putting it off. It's not something I made up. This is something the Ministry itself has written in its draft law. So I just want to ask the Prime Minister: should the tenants themselves pay for their future renovations if they live in ordinary social housing that is not on the ghetto list?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135158	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135159	I don't get angry at all or anything. Well, I get very involved because it is so exciting to debate with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who might also be able to answer these questions himself. For if the SF is on the wagon that there must never be a waiting list or something that must be prioritised or something that cannot be done in the present, how much more money is it then that the SF will invest in the general sector? Or is it the case that those 12 billion. kr., which we will pool to the most affected residential areas, must be cut by 9 billion. kr. to 3 billion. kr.? Is that what the SF is proposing, that is, that only 3 billion should be invested. kr. In the ghetto areas? Well, it's very good to stand and demand an answer from me. We take responsibility for making a priority balanced bid, where we say: there are some areas where the situation is so serious that we have to make an extraordinary effort, otherwise we will have to face a problem which is now big, which is getting bigger and which, if we do not tackle it, will be reminiscent of residential areas we see elsewhere in Europe where ordinary people cannot enter. This requires extraordinary effort. It also requires a willingness to prioritise. Yeah, it's true that we're gonna start using something more... not much more, but something more than you've done. And that, of course, leaves a little less than there would otherwise be for the rest of the sector. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135320	Thank you. Thank you to the party leaders, and thank you to the Prime Minister. The question is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135327	Today there are the following reviews: Martin Henriksen (DF) and others.: Bill No. L 189 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 100 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the debureaucratisation of artistic education at the Ministry of Culture). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 101 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on aid for the relief of parents of children with disabilities during temporary stays abroad). Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Question No. F 26 (Will the government, like the Danish People's Party, work for several APNG cameras for the police for cars and certain road sections and in border areas?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have received a letter from the Prime Minister concerning changes of order between ministers per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 12 March 2018 provides that the responsibility for the secretariat services of the Board for Health Assessments in Staff Cases is transferred from the Minister of Public Innovation to the Minister of Business per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135421	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135436	Member of the Folketing Pernille Bendixen (DF) applied for leave from 28 March 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Point 3 (c) while Trine Bramsen (S) has applied for leave from 3 April 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed. The next item must be put to the vote and, in order to meet the deadline for notifying votes, we shall take a break of one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135608	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Danish People's Party in Fyns Storkreds, Carsten Kudsk, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 28 March 2018, on the occasion of Pernille Bendixen's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party in Fyns Storkreds, Carsten Hansen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 3 April 2018, on the occasion of Trine Bramsen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135641	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 104 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135705	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 44 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 55 (DF, V, LA, KF), against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V-44 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 43 by Stine Brix (EL), Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135813	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135834	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The bill has been adopted unanimously by 108 votes. The bill will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135859	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135918	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The bill has been adopted unanimously by 108 votes. The bill will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320135941	No amendments have been tabled. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140006	This is the second and final reading of SF's proposal to set a ceiling on quick loans with an ÅOP of 15%. in the national bank's discount account, and the reason why we have put it forward is that we are watching the quick loan market go crazy. We have seen examples of quick loans with an ÅOP of 3,000 per cent. The Danish Competition and Consumer Authority made a report in 2015, from which it could be seen that 136,000 quick loans were created in 2014 and an increase of 667%. At the same time, we can see that one third of the revenues of the Quick Loan market are based on bad payers. One third of their earnings simply come from penalties, penalties, and collection fees. When you have a business model where you earn a third of your income because people can't pay, there's something wrong. Compared to this proposal, Minister for Industry, Brian Mikkelsen, has called it "quoting" an unsuitability in relation to the private market. Apparently, it is not a bad thing when we set a ceiling on interchange fees and other interest rate ceilings that benefit others. That is why I think it is very unfortunate that when we vote in a few moments it seems that there is no majority in the Danish Parliament that will support a ceiling on quick loans. It is simply devastating both for the individual who gets into trouble and takes a new quick loan to cover past quick loans, but it is also a socio-economic problem. If we had disagreed that the limit should go exactly 15%. A proposal of 20 per cent or 25 per cent could have been made by the National Bank's discount account. After all, it is reasonably far up to 3,000 per cent. in AOP. That's too bad. That's something the Consumer Council thinks supports. This is something that a number of experts and debt advisers support. But I would like to thank those parties that agree with this problem and end up voting in favour, and also hope that other parties will consider it again, because the quick loan market is therefore a toxic credit market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140221	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140228	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140303	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Finn Sørensen wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140311	Thank you. In a few moments, we will be voting on the Enhedslisten's proposal for a social protocol to the EU Treaty, or rather the European trade union movement's proposal for a social protocol, which Enhedslisten has proposed that the Danish Parliament should instruct the Danish Government to work for. In this context, I would like to thank the other parties in the opposition, the Social Democracy, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF for their support for the proposal and for the joint contribution we have made to the report. It is very gratifying that we are now in agreement on this, because that means that we can begin to implement it when, hopefully then, we get a majority together after the next parliamentary elections. There is no time counter here, President, but I've timed it, so it's gonna be okay. Unfortunately, I cannot address the same thanks to the Danish People's Party or to the other bourgeois parties. I can see from the parties' contribution to the report that they agree that economic rights in the European Union should not undermine the rights of workers. So far as I'm concerned, that's the crux of the matter. At the same time, however, they will vote against a proposal which will precisely safeguard employees' rights against being run over by the rules of the internal market on freedom of movement. I have replied at first reading to the arguments put forward. Sometimes it's nice to hear someone other than yourself speak for the same cause. I will therefore refer to and quote a few excerpts from an open letter which the Construction Trades Association in Copenhagen on 6 March on behalf of their ca. 16,000 members have written to the Danish People's Party. It says, among other things, and I quote: through our trade union work we do what we can to ensure orderly conditions and a level playing field for Danish and incoming workers. Nevertheless, frustrations are not such as to get under control when the talk goes into the building shed or the lunch room. What is most often on the agenda in this regard is that we lack political and legal help to secure our labour market model. Quote out. Then the Collaborate of Construction refers specifically to the proposal for a social protocol which, in their opinion, means "and I have to say that I personally agree that if it is the case that a conflict arises between a country's labour market rules and the EU's internal market, that is, the rules of free movement, then it is the professional rules that must prevail. And then the open letter continues with a direct address to the Danish People's Party, and I quote: In the Danish People's Party it is your policy to have such a protocol introduced. Yes, your EU parliamentarian Morten Messerschmidt has even explained that it is even DF classic policy with such a tool. Quote out. After that, I wonder why the construction trade is cooperating, and here I quote a few sentences, that: that is what you will be proposing, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth and your party, however, vote against. So, excuse us, but how does your vote today relate to your EU policy from the time when votes were to be obtained for your leading candidate in 2014 in the European Parliament elections? Well, frankly, it sounds hollow when you say, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh........ Kenneth Kristensen Berth and the other bourgeois parties say that economic freedoms in the European Union must not overstretch workers' rights, because now that you have the opportunity to vote in favour of a proposal that will guarantee these rights, you will vote it down. Quote out. This was the request from the Danish People's Party to work together in the building trade. And it's written as an open letter, so I assume it's perfectly legal that you refer to it. Open letters have been put forward to have an open debate, so I am hurrying down from the platform so that there can be room for Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140712	First of all, we need a brief comment from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140715	Thank you. I am not going to go into a longer discussion on the substance, but I just have to ask whether the Enhedslisten has made it clear that the adoption of the resolution we are debating right now requires a change to the Treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140732	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140734	Thank you for the question, I am glad to have a few, and I have dealt with that quite clearly all the way through, from the very first time we made this proposal. You have to say it the way it is. A proposal for a social protocol attached to the Treaty, like all possible other protocols, also requires, of course, the unanimity of all the Member States in order for such a protocol to be added to the Treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140804	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen the word? Yes, he does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140807	After all, a Treaty amendment is something that we normally ask the Danish people about in a referendum. So this means that we are now experiencing the Enhedslisten recommending a 'yes' to the Treaty amendment which I assume we agree with the Social Democracy and the other parties in the opposition that we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140826	I don't understand that question. The proposal is to require the Danish Government to work for a social protocol.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140836	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320140849	Thank you. That's where I was about to tackle Mr. Finn Sørensen while he was on his way down. That wasn't supposed to happen. However, when the Danish People's Party does not support this proposal, it is quite straightforward to explain. First of all, however, I should like to say to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen that we are also opposed to social dumping. We are certainly opposed to social dumping. This is not about whether or not you are opposed to social dumping. It is about the methods of avoiding social dumping. What is the problem with the Enhedslisten's proposal for a social protocol is, of course, in its simplicity that it is not any social protocol that the Enhedslisten wants to add to the Treaty of Lisbon. This is the social protocol on which all the members of the European Trade Union Confederation have agreed. There alone the alarm bells may have to start ringing a little. If all professional associations from all over the EU can agree on something, it may not be just something that is in favour of Denmark. That is what turns out to be the case, because when you go down in this Minutes and read the contents of the Minutes, you can see that there are some serious problems in the Minutes. For example, the protocol states in Article 2 that we must not change acquired rights. So we must not decide to take the progress made by the workers and then roll them back. What does that mean in human language? That means, of course, that if you imagine this protocol being repealed into law under the auspices of the European Union, then we cannot discuss indexing the children's cheque anymore. We cannot discuss access to unemployment benefits; we cannot discuss access to cash benefits; we cannot discuss access to the SU for migrant workers; we cannot discuss when a migrant worker is a migrant worker. That is, I think, a problem, because if we cannot discuss these things, then we cannot attack the essence of social dumping either. The essence of social dumping is, of course, when it has to be right that, for example, when you have to. As an Eastern European employee chooses to go to Denmark, it is not just the pay slip that you are looking at. Then it is also the things that go with it, for example. access to unemployment benefit and, in the case of SU recipients, it is possible to obtain the SU at all. So this social protocol proposed by the European Trade Union Confederation would, in our view, be a major problem if it were actually implemented. The biggest question we have really asked ourselves in the Danish People's Party after we so went down in matter in this is: How on earth has Enhedslisten managed to lure the Social Democracy to support this? For we were of the opinion that the Social Democratic Party basically agreed that, for example, we were in favour. I had to index the children's check. In fact, we thought the Social Democrats agreed with that. However, if the Social Democrats and the left in this Parliament are given the opportunity to implement this now, there are no discussions on indexing the children's cheque. Then it is not possible to index the children's cheque, because then we really are dealing with a stand still clause where we cannot change all the things and all the rights that have been acquired for employees. It goes without saying that we cannot be involved in this by the Danish People's Party. Of course, you might also ask: What is the method? That's it, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned a little bit. Is it the right method to say that we must have a social protocol in relation to the Treaty of Lisbon? Is that even possible? Well, that requires unanimity among all the Member States of the European Union. If it were to be implemented, then we would have been in a situation where we really had a stand-still clause in relation to social benefits and social benefits. We would not be interested in that from Denmark. Perhaps there would be some Eastern European and Southern European countries that might be interested in that, but from the Danish side we are certainly not interested in it. And can that be done? In reality, it must be said that it cannot. It probably can't. So the question is: should we not then try to combat social dumping in a different way? It can, for example, be done. be related to indexing the children's cheque; e.g. In order to see whether we can limit the right to benefit, e.g.: In order to see if we can define the concept of worker, so that it is not a newspaper route once a week that makes you qualified to receive benefits from the Danish state if you have a study next to it. We believe that this is a better solution. That said, Mr. Finn Sørensen himself, sir. Morten Messerschmidt's statements on a social protocol. What you have to be aware of is that it is a It is not this Morten Messerschmidt has expressed itself about. Because in the best of all worlds, it would be really good if we could agree across the European countries to draw up a single social protocol, but with a distinction between social rights, welfare rights and benefits rights on the one hand, which then fell outside, and then a part which deals with the labour market policy, which was part of that social protocol which was exclusively related to the Viking Line judgment, the Laval judgment, the Rüffert judgment, the Luxembourg judgment, that is to say, all these judgments which have undermined conflict law in various ways. We are fully in favour of this, and that is why we would also like to take on the task and see if it can be done. However, as long as we are dealing with a social protocol which also includes benefits which also include a real standstill clause in relation to access to benefits, we cannot support it, unfortunately. And I'm surprised that the Social Democrats have chosen to support this... I must say, I'm very surprised. Summa summarum we cannot support the specific proposal for the reasons I have listed. We would very much like to work with Enhedslisten and the rest of Parliament on how to eliminate social dumping, how to frame the results of all these judgments, but there is the European Trade Union Confederation's proposal not the right tool because it has serious side effects. One must always ask oneself, before taking the medicine, whether the side effects of the medicine are really worse than the disease that one might be able to cure. And in this case, it just has to be said that the side effects exceed the effects of the medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320141621	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320141624	Thank you. I think the Socialists themselves can explain why they support it. But I guess that, as in my case, it is because they cannot read at all the things in the proposal that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth invents it. There is no justification for the interpretation of the proposals of the European trade union movement, which Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is coming with us. And it's thought-provoking that we've been discussing this three times in Parliament during the time I've been in Parliament that it's only here at the eleventh hour, when the debate really gets interesting, because the opposition is now gathered on it, that the Danish People's Party, excuse me the floor, constructs a whole lot of things and poetries a lot of things into this proposal. That proposal is aimed precisely at what Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says he wants to, namely to guarantee employees' rights so that they are not run over by the rules of the internal market. Will Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth confirms that this is what this proposal is about? It is in several parts of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320141738	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320141739	No, I certainly can't confirm that. On the other hand, I can quote what is stated in Article 2 and now allow me to read aloud in English, because I do not have a Danish translation. It states under point d that • quote: ensure that improvements are maintained and avoids any regression in respect of its already existing secondary legislation. This cannot be explained in any other way than that it is intended and said that there must be no deterioration in conditions for workers who have been adopted and implemented through secondary legislation, and that is one of the reasons for this. questions of access to services. So I do not see that it can be any different, and I must also say that the Minister for Employment, if he is present in the Chamber, can probably confirm that it is the case that the adoption of this social protocol would make it impossible for Denmark to raise the issue of indexing the children's cheque in the European Union, because it would be established with seven-inch nails that it would not be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320141853	Thank you. I think there was a partial translation along the way. Thank you for that, too. Sir. Finn Sørensen wishes to speak again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320141859	Speaking time of 30 seconds does not allow all that talk to be refuted. I just want to ask two questions. If it was very important for the Danish People's Party to have it included in some comments because it then allows for a further platform in the negotiations why has it not made the effort to table an amendment that clarified the basis of the Danish People's Party in relation to it? That is one question. The second question is: if the Danish People's Party does not want to guarantee employees' rights in this way, what proposal will the Danish People's Party make to secure them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320141942	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320141944	It is an extensive question to answer in a relatively short time. In relation to the question of comments, we must take as a starting point, when you read the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, that this is a fait accompli. So this is a proposal which has come from the European professional associations and which is in the form it now has, because it has been agreed among the various professional associations here and which cannot therefore be changed. That must be the starting point. And now I see from the President that I cannot answer the second part. But maybe someone else will ask the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142025	We'll see about that. But at least now it's sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142030	Thank you. Just to clarify what kind of proposal the Enhedslisten has put forward, I think they themselves could certainly elaborate much better: it is a proposal to introduce a single social protocol. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says, if that's what we were discussing. But that is actually what we are discussing. Then Enhedslisten takes the trouble in the comments to refer to that among other things. the entire European trade union movement has made a proposal. But there are also other proposals for a single social protocol, something that European social democracies have been making, and that is something that has existed in the debate for a long time. The reason why the Social Democratic Party supports this is, of course, that we support the internal market on the one hand. We do not want to leave the European Union, as the Danish People's Party sometimes wants to do. On the other hand, however, we do not believe that the fundamental rights, wages and working conditions of employees should be reduced in the interests of the free movement of goods and services. That is why we are voting in favour. So is the truth not that the reason why the Danish People's Party is ultimately opposed to this proposal today is that otherwise the government would be in a minority?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142134	If so, it is probably not new to Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen did not be the first time that the Danish People's Party helped to bring the government into the minority. So it doesn't really have much to do with it. What this has to do with is, as I also stated quite clearly before, that if you implement this protocol in the form it has here, then you will have a situation in which a stand still clause is de facto established in relation to workers' rights, including in the social sphere of the European Union. And we're not interested in that to make it clear. Because we are not interested in the possibility of abolishing the right to a child's check or restricting the right to the SU for migrant workers or defining what migrant workers are at all. And then we are not in favour of a social dimension. We are not in favour of the EU having access to social policy in the Member States. But I am aware that things are changing with regard to social democracy, at least if you are to believe what Mrs Mette Frederiksen wrote in the Financial Times the other day. There it seems that the Social Democratic Party is moving in a different direction. Well, we'll have to see where that goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142239	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142240	After all, it is a Danish championship in over-interpretation of things today, both a post in the Financial Times, and what this resolution is basically about. After all, this resolution will ensure that each nation state can continue to guarantee that employees in its own country will not be denied their basic working conditions, will not be competing down in wages and will not have to give up fundamental rights. That is what this additional protocol is basically about. And there I agree with Enhedslisten and others in the debate earlier that it is a disappointment to see that the Danish People's Party will not be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142315	Such a proposal, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, who outlines a proposal to counter the effects of the Laval and Rüffert judgments and the Luxembourg judgment, and what they are called, all these judgments which have violated workers' rights, we would of course support them. But that is just not what the proposal is about. In other words, the proposal is about bringing into the Treaty of Lisbon the agreement on a social protocol, what should we call it? Then you can always discuss whether it is realistic at all.I doubt that it is realistic, but I think that it is a very, very bad idea for the Danish People's Party to make such a stand-still clause on access to the service.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142356	Thank you. The last person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142359	I think the rapporteur spoke earlier. He said that we are not in favour of social policy being pursued in the Member States. I think he means the opposite, but he has to vouch for that himself. This proposal is about working rights, basic labour rights. This has been discussed at least in the last EU elections and in the previous EU elections. I was in an intense duel on this particular issue with a series of rapporteurs from the Danish People's Party who said: we are in complete agreement on this. I also think that it looks like some strange creep around it instead of going to the bite and saying: this is what we understand, sir. Finn Sørensen? It must be formulated in such a way as not to sit back and not to bother the government. I think that this is a very, very sought-after way of avoiding a proposal which deals precisely with fundamental labour rights, agreements, opportunities to defend agreements, opportunities to fight for wage and working conditions, which are precisely under pressure from the four judgments mentioned by the rapporteur himself, but which are also under pressure from the fact that the EU has a regime in which market rights take precedence over workers' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142508	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142510	We do not sit back in the Danish People's Party. It is not characteristic of our party, it is not the attitude we go to things with. That's why I have to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that I believe that Mr. Christian Juhl may be able to see, when we enter the new parliamentary year, that there will be a proposal from the Danish People's Party that will try to find a way through this morass, which is about getting labour rights and access to benefits, social rights squeezed together in one big thing. Because if this were a proposal which was concerned only with conflict law, wage-setting, classic labour law matters, then we would be able to support it. Well, the problem with this is performance access. That is the fact that workers' rights must not be undermined, for example, in the area of social benefits. It is clear that we cannot live with that, and I do not understand why social democracy can live with it, but so can social democracy. We...
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142614	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142616	It could be because they have read the proposal. I guess so. That is why I believe that when we talk about fundamental rights, we cannot deny that the European Union can come up with crazy things. Well, there's proof of that; academics would say that there was evidence of that. But this proposal is not about what the European Union wants next year; it is about what the workers in Europe want and what we want in the various countries, where we want to give workers and their organisations the opportunity to form their pay and working conditions on free and proper terms and where they are not restricted by the European Union. That's what this is all about, and that's why I think it's quite, quite strange that DF just gets off.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142658	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142659	I do not really believe that the workers in the EU or at least the workers in Denmark are particularly interested in contributing children's cheques to the children of Eastern workers who live in Eastern Europe and who have never seen Denmark. I do not think that Danish workers are interested in this. Nor do I think they are interested in contributing the SU to Eastern Europeans or other Europeans who come here to study and then just get a few hours' work and then get SU on top of that. Nor do I think that Danish workers exist. There you just have to say that if you elevate this as it is now, to a part of the Treaty, that is what you get. That is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142735	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Do more people want to speak? The minister? Here you go, Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142746	Thank you. The reason why I feel it is necessary to speak here during the second reading is, in fact, that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, of course, strikes at what is stated in the proposal, namely: The Danish Parliament instructs the government to work for the introduction of a social protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon as proposed by the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) in March 2008. I have to say that I fully share the comments made by a majority of the parties in their contribution to the report, namely that if we were to support the proposal as it stands and as Enhedslisten has put it, Denmark would find itself in a situation where we cannot work towards indexing, for example. The children's check or for some of the other things that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth mentioned. And, of course, it is quite interesting that, on the one hand, one would like to have the opportunities which a broad majority in the Folketing supports and, on the other hand, at the same time support a proposal which one can see goes in the completely opposite direction if one reads what has been proposed by the organisation called the ETUC and which Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth then also got read up in English and, I think, then got translated into Danish. I must say that I fully share the comments of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142905	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142906	I would just like to say that I am surprised that the Minister is making himself available for an interpretation of this proposal which the ETUC, the European trade union movement, has never even been close to. Would the Minister like to confirm that if you take this proposal in its entirety, it can be boiled down to one thing, and that is that trade union rights should not be overwhelmed by economic freedoms? The Minister has confirmed in another answer that this is what the protocol is about. So would the Minister just like to confirm that this is what it is all about and that it is not at any time in the vicinity of discussing social benefits and rules for the social benefits of migrant workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320142958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143002	I would simply like to refer to what it says. I think, too, sir. Finn Sørensen is well aware that in the proposal from the ETUC there are, of course, a large number of elements which are precisely based on what Mr Sørensen has just said. Kenneth Kristensen Berth mentioned. And if you do not have that proposal, I am very happy to send it over so that I can stress precisely what those points are, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth also mentioned from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143026	I think it would be an excellent thing for the Minister to make a comment on the proposals of the European Trade Union Confederation. I look forward to that very much so that we can continue this discussion. I would just like to hope that the Minister will consider the proposal in its entirety and also take note of the provisions that make it clear that it is the national rules that are protected by this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143056	I can say and confirm to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that as Minister for Employment I am always driven by objectivity, so my answer will also bear the stamp of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143107	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. There is no one else who wishes to speak, and that is why we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143114	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 49 (S, EL, ALT, RV, and SF), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143159	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That is why the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143211	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). That is not the case. They have thus been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143240	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143249	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF). And a vote can be taken. We shall conclude the vote now. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. In other words, the amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept Amendment No 2 by a majority (S, DF, V, EL, LA, SF and KF) or Amendment No 2 by a majority (S, DF, V, EL, LA, SF and KF) or Amendment No 2 by a large majority (S, DF, V, EL, LA, SF and KF) or Amendment No 3 by a large majority. 3, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? That is not the case. The amendments have been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143410	The debate is open. And those who do not wish to take part in the debate on the proposal may leave the Chamber. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143452	Thank you for that, President. Every day hundreds of people get sick from going to work. Some are exposed to an accident • some physical incident that causes them to have absences from their work and others to be worn out by years of hard physical work, all things that can be seen and measured and relatively easily detected and documented. Then there are those who, due to stress and bullying, an incalculable work situation or other, have to go home and get sick leave. It's something very untraceable. I have noted that all parties in this Chamber have wanted to do something about the psychological working environment, but on the other hand have been somewhat groping about what needs to be done. This has been clear in the series of debates that we have had. We have now set up the so-called Committee of Experts, headed by Pia Gellerup, who, together with a handful of experts and the social partners, will propose a future health and safety effort and, above all, with a focus on the psychological field. Then we have the bill we are discussing here today on the method that the Factory Inspectorate can use in their supervision of the psychological working environment. The fact that the consultants have freedom of method and can use precisely the kind of conversation that they see best makes sense is essential to me and to the Social Democracy for us to move forward in ensuring a good psychological working environment at all workplaces. Fortunately, the consultation responses we have received also show that there is broad support from both employers' and employees' organisations, public and private. I have also noted that fears and suspicions are expressed by certain employers, but I take this as an expression of the fact that the draft law has not been fully understood. I think it hasn't been without trouble and swordshooting to get here where we are. However, when we saw in the Social Democratic Party that there were problems in the process, we contacted the Minister and we are very pleased that the Minister has set himself in line and has shown decisiveness and has cut through and tabled the bill on the basis of which the Committee on Methods has arrived. I also note with satisfaction that the Minister has not found the opportunity to amend the draft law that was sent in consultation. We now write 2018 and not 1918 in the calendar, which is why it is quite natural and also high time that we had these changes supported by the Social Democratic Party. I have no comment to make on the part of the draft law on the allocation of funds for cross-cutting activities, because that is just common sense. So, together, we support the bill in the Social Democratic Party. Then I should like to say hello to Sofie Carsten Nielsen, rapporteur for the Radicals, and to say that she has been summoned to debate in the Ministry of Education. I have therefore promised to say from her that the Radicals also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143814	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. There are no brief comments, so we shall proceed to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320143826	Thank you for that, President. This bill concerns the mental health and safety at work. It means incredibly much in the workplace that you have a good psychological working environment, that you do not feel that you are constantly under pressure and do not dare to say anything about what it is that causes if you have some problems. There has been, as was also said by Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen has been a major discussion on how to get the problems out there in the workplace. Because we must remember that mental health and safety is not just something that has to do with the relationship between employees and employers; it is just as much between colleagues where it can sometimes be much worse. It is therefore also necessary for the Labour Inspectorate to have the opportunity to talk to those who feel affected without others being able to hear it. That's what this bill is all about. The Committee on Methods has worked on this, but no one has really followed the recommendations that have come from the Committee on Methods. Therefore, legislation is now being made which means that the Labour Inspectorate can have a talk with the individual employee without anyone else hearing it. However, there is also an opportunity to talk in groups if the Danish Labour Inspectorate wants to talk to a group of employees. It must also be possible if there is an employee who says that he does not want to sit and open up his problems to his colleagues or to the employer, if one of his colleagues is the problem. Well, then it's not exactly the case to sit and talk in a group like that. But the Factory Inspectorate can then talk to the individual for itself and, as I said in the groups, too, without employers hearing what is being said. We know that there is dissatisfaction with it, and we also know that employers want them to be able to watch everything. But there has to be some reasonableness in it, because when you have to open up your innermost problems, you have to be able to sit quietly before the Labour Inspectorate without feeling the pressure in any way whatsoever. But if the Factory Inspectorate is faced with a group, we must of course also be careful that it is not so that it is the Factory Inspectorate that gives them the answers to what to say. It must be something that comes from the heart of those affected, and I also assume that this is how it is going to be. The Danish People's Party considers this to be a good proposal, and we also have no comment on the clarification in the law which says, with regard to the funds for cross-cutting activities, that it should be two or more industry communities or the Working Conditions Council that should have the money. So we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320144120	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. This did not give rise to any brief comments either, and that is why we shall move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's motion for a resolution. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320144127	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the details of the draft law. I can, in fact, be relatively brief, because I think we can all see the sense in ensuring a clear framework for the powers of the Labour Inspectorate. We in the Left, of course, think that too, and that is why we can only support this bill. Unfortunately, we have to recognise that we have a challenge, particularly with the psychological working environment around the country's workplaces. We can see in black and white that the number of psychic injuries reported is going the wrong way, and of course we need to correct that, and therefore it is absolutely crucial that the Factory Inspectorate has access to the right tools to identify problems in the working environment. Therefore, I can only see the wisdom of ensuring that employees are able to speak freely from the liver with the employees of the Factory Inspectorate, without the boss listening, if otherwise justified by the work environment. Then, of course, it is important that we strike a balance where we also remember employers in this, because the individual employers play a key role in solving the challenge in the working environment, and therefore, of course, they should not be put completely outside the door. But I certainly do not think that we are doing this with this bill either, because I think that a good balance has been found which also guarantees employers' rights, and I am convinced that employers will also play a key role in the future in solving the challenges of the working environment, and on that basis the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320144309	With that we thank the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Andersen. And then, sir... Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, came around the other side of the counter and is hereby given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320144317	Thank you. The proposal that the Factory Inspectorate should have access to individual meetings with employees without the employer and to attend group meetings in the same way is a good proposal. It may be a good opportunity if the employer is part of the problem, for example. in the case of mental health and safety at work, which, moreover, has begun to be called an organisational and social working environment, because this is about the way in which work is organised and the way in which work is organised, or about direct sexual harassment. It is absurd that employers have so far been able to walk around with the supervisor and listen to what the employee is dissatisfied with. Especially in cases such as: sexual harassment on the part of a manager makes no sense that the manager can stand right next door when interviewing the employee. It makes it difficult to be honest about the situation," says Morten Skov Christiansen, who is vice-chairman of the LO. DA Chief Consultant Christina Suhr Raby • Suhr with h • believes that it does not promote the good dialogue if one party goes outside the door. It is worth a thought, because it is often the workers or the employees, as some call them, who smoke outside the door. Innumerable are the labour inspectorate visits to workplaces where the employer is alone with the Labour Inspectorate. Some would say that is natural because the employer owns the shop or the company; I would say it is old-fashioned, because some employers do not understand how important it is to involve the employees when solving problems in the company. Christina Suhr Raby even believes that it violates the legal certainty of the company. That's not true at all. When it comes to legal certainty outside the workplace, we usually agree that all citizens must be covered by legal certainty in an equal way, but when it comes to legal certainty in the workplace, it is very unevenly distributed. The employer is well covered by the right of management, while the legal certainty of employees is limited by the right of management, and only to a certain extent do we ensure by means of agreements and individual laws, among others. The law on health and safety at work, the law on equality, etc., is that there is a tiny amount of legal certainty. It is distributed by approximately 90%. to the employer and 10% to the employer. to the employees, in order to distribute real legal certainty. The bias can be read from the first and more accurate title of the Working Conditions Act, for it came almost 100 years ago to be called the Workers Protection Act. It should help to ensure that workers could go to work without harming their health, because it was then recognised that employers' search for profits, of course, sometimes affected workers' health. We should still use that title because then we know what the law should do, namely protect workers' health. I would say that if the Minister has the imagination to do so, we should supplement his quite reasonable proposal • I do not know if he heard the rose • with another proposal, namely a provision that, if one has been chosen, the health and safety representative always participates when the Factory Inspectorate is on inspection or on visit. It should be a requirement that it should be certain that inspections are not carried out without the health and safety representative taking part in the visit. Another provision could also be extended, namely that in all workplaces with five or more employees you have the right to choose a health and safety representative. This would help to emphasise that the key element in the effort for a good working environment is the work at the workplace, because that is where the essential effort is being made, namely in the cooperation between the employer and the health and safety representative. But most jobs in Denmark are small jobs, and therefore there are very, very many jobs that are not able to have a health and safety representative elected for the employees. However, as always, when the Minister proposes improvements to the working environment, he can safely count on the Enhedslisten, because we are voting for even the slightest improvement and against even the slightest deterioration, and we think this proposal is sensible. Well done, sir. Minister. But I would also like to thank those individuals and professional organizations who have been working for years to improve this area. If we can get that pace to continue, I will consider upgrading the Minister's humiliating and sad title as Minister of Employment to be Minister of Labour. But a swallow doesn't do summer, so I'm gonna think about it for a second. I should also like to welcome Mr Hønge from the SF, who shares my views and also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320144818	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320144826	Thank you. This proposal will allow the Labour Inspectorate to hold both individual and group interviews without the employer's presence during supervision visits. This law is based on a desire to strengthen control of the psychological working environment. I think this is a really bad proposal. I think the Factory Inspectorate's control has run completely away from an otherwise reasonable purpose. When the Factory Inspectorate visits office workplaces and tells adults how they should sit on their office chair or how a small office warehouse should be organised, then it is state guardianship without any sensible errand. The original aim is to protect workers from serious damage caused, for example, by: lack of equipment or bad procedures, we are very far past. The trade union movement and the left's new hobby, a better psychological work environment, sounds really sympathetic on the surface, because we all really want to go around and have a good time at work. But the fact that we have to have a state authority running around making sure that we are all well at work is for me to see very paternal. It is also an expression of a deep distrust of companies as if they have an independent interest in the fact that the working environment is bad. We are going to vote in favour of this proposal, although in isolation we believe that it is moving in the wrong direction, but we are going to vote in favour because we are part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145005	Thank you to Mrs Lindahl, there are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145013	Thank you. The alternative shall vote in favour of the proposal. We think it is wise to introduce individual and group conversations between the Factory Inspectorate and the employees in the companies, and we also think that this is a fine clarification of the possibility of individual activities. So from here, it's just a yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145029	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, even here is not a brief remark. And we're moving on to sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145052	The bill here is actually quite simple. It is not so much that is being changed in the legislation, but primarily it is that the Factory Inspectorate is given the opportunity to hold interviews with employees without the employer being present. And we think this is a bad idea because it may give rise to misunderstandings that interviews can be held with employees, where the employer cannot hear what is being said and thus has no opportunity to object. So we think the best conversations must take place while the employer is present, so you hear both parties. It is quite the same as you know it from, for example. a trial. There you also sit in the open and tell how you experience things so that everyone can hear what is being said and can come up with different points of view on it. The government has then chosen to put forward the bill for fear that those who want to water down the employer's legal position even more would come up with something more far-reaching if they did not. We respect that, and there may also be some reasoning in this strategy, which is why we must of course support the bill here. But basically we think that we are moving in an unfortunate direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145212	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145226	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank and acknowledge that Conservatives also support the proposal. As the rapporteur can hear, it is a broad Parliament that supports this. I just need the rapporteur to confirm to me that this draft law actually does exactly what the rapporteur himself is calling for, just to start by having a conversation where you are in the same room and meet. In fact, when you come as a consultant, you must start by having a meeting with the employer and the health and safety organisation, and then you can start with your probes with the employer or his representative. And it is only at the moment when the consultant can see that it is not possible to have any momentum and there can be no doubt that it is possible to arrive at what is intended to be investigated, that the employer's representative must then be asked to go outside for a moment. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm this, in other words that the things that the rapporteur himself says are actually contained in the proposal, and that this is really only about the small part that deals with the situation when it is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145330	I can, of course, confirm that it is not the case that it is the case that talks with employees must always be held without the employer being present, but that it is in special circumstances. But that does not change my point of view, i.e. I would rather not have conversations without the employer being present. However, it stresses that there are opportunities for making worse legislative proposals. And that is why this defensive agenda, which the government has, can try to put forward something that can then represent a compromise between different views, perhaps be very wise, because then it avoids something that is even worse from the point of view of companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145412	Thank you. But then I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he would not agree that the best thing would be for the employer to have a working environment that would have prevented this situation from happening at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145423	Well now I also believe that there is generally a good working environment in most jobs. Of course there are always stumbled vessels, and of course there will always be problems around, but in general we are not in favour of suspicious companies and employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145442	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, and welcome to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145453	Thank you for the comments that have been made here at the first reading of this draft law, which also illustrates very well the difficulty of the debate we are facing. After all, it is not every day that the support of the opposition is almost greater than that of the governing parties. That's because this is a difficult balancing act. This is, of course, primarily a balancing approach to ensuring that the Factory Inspectorate has the necessary powers, but on the other hand it is also a respect for the employers who, I think, always have an interest in ensuring that their employees have a good working environment, but where, unfortunately, inappropriate behaviour can develop that requires action. This is particularly true in relation to the psychological working environment, where you cannot immediately see and observe the problems in the same way as you can in relation to the physical working environment. With a clear legal basis for the Danish Labour Inspectorate to talk to employees without the presence of others and to hold group conversations as a data collection method, we create a clear framework for monitoring the psychological working environment. The change in the law also makes it clear that the employer has the right to participate as a starting point when the Factory Inspectorate holds group interviews with employees, but that in specific cases the Factory Inspectorate can decide for the opposite. I would like to say here today that there is a need to provide guidance on how the Danish Labour Inspectorate works, and I want to involve the Danish Parliament's parties in this, which goes without saying, and that is also to have a broad discussion with the Danish Parliament on this new tool. We must, of course, take account of the legal certainty of employers, but also of the possibility of identifying the working environment in the company. At the same time, it is also important to me that the draft law has found a solution that ensures that the social partners continue to support the recommendations of the so-called Committee of Methods. And that is exactly the core of the legislative proposal that is being discussed today. I think it is important that the parties are involved in setting a framework for action in this area. Finally, I also consider it important that the uncertainty that has arisen as to the basis for the Council's allocation of funds for the work of the parties in the field of health and safety should be removed by means of the legislative proposal, by clarifying the provisions in force. Let me sign for some, I think, in every way very fine and nuanced speakers, who have ended up in supporting the proposal for everyone. And then we have to look at how the committee procedure can help to clarify some of them, you might say, both concerns, but also some of the issues that could be raised in this connection, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145741	Thank you, Minister. No one was praying for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145814	The debate is open. The first rapporteur to be put on the floor is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320145824	Thank you very much. We all know about this: when you have a motor vehicle, you are obliged to have it insured. That is a very good rule, because if you get into a situation where you have caused damage to another person, then you are covered, the insurance company can step in and the injured person can get the compensation he is entitled to. Unfortunately, we see that there is a fairly large group of people who drive motor vehicles that they have not insured, and even some who get involved in accidents, and then we are in a really bad situation. This has so far been taken into account in the fact that the Danish Association for International Motor Vehicle Insurance has been established, and they have then covered the situation so that the injured person could nevertheless receive the coverage that he should have. It is, of course, a good and sympathetic and in many ways also a system of solidarity. The idea has then been that when it was then that you had to pick up on this case, you have been able to run a court case, as is stated in the professional language, that is, you could make sure that the injurer paid what he or she owed. What we are seeing in the meantime is that this is happening to a very limited extent, and so it is that this common fund, the solidarity arrangement of the Danish Association for International Motor Vehicle Insurance, will end up having to pay this amount. In other words, it is all of us who pay our insurance costs for the costs that people have not insured their vehicles when they are involved in damage, and that is deeply problematic. When you read further down the draft law, you can see that it is not just the case that these are a few stumbled vessels, but that it is clear that there are actually 50,000 car owners or regular users who have come into a situation where they are not legally insured one day or more, and the amount of money they are running into and covered by in this box is therefore 45.1 million. kr. per year on average. So it's not small things. There the government has set out to say: let us have a scheme so that if you have not insured your motor vehicle, what you own or what you regularly use, then you have to have a day fee so that you can be encouraged to take out this insurance. In order to ensure that justice is kept with who has an insurance policy and who does not have an insurance policy, the bill also lays down that you can look into this vehicle register and check out who has paid and who has not paid insurance, and then the owner or the durable user can be paid some daily fees if they have not paid. We have great sympathy for this on the part of the Social Democrats. And I should like to say a word of greeting from the Socialist People's Party, since Mr. Karsten Hønge unfortunately cannot be present, that they also support it. I would like to say that it is worth asking a few questions about what the Minister has imagined, in relation to how unrealistic it would be to collect this money together. So, if people are capable of cheating on their insurance, is it quite unrealistic to imagine that they could also avoid paying these daily charges, and what should the reprisal be? Are we gonna get into something about stopping these cars and cutting license plates or something? For it is probably a difficult group to deal with, those who consistently refuse to pay what they have to pay. But the idea of getting it picked up and doing something, we have sympathy for. We just need to keep an eye on the fact that we do not have a new bureaucracy so that, in the best opinion of wanting to pick up on it, we put on ourselves a whole lot of new bureaucracy and new costs, and so that those who are then anti-social remain anti-social, because then we are equal. So I just wanted to say that the other day I met two prison officers on the pedestrian street in Hjørring, who could report that we in the Danish Parliament have passed a law which means that if you do not serve in prison, you have to have a fine. That sounds very reasonable, and you think what they think; now they've done a crime first, and then they're going to jail, and then they're gone. They must be fined. That sounds fair enough. The thing is, they don't give a shit because they already have a debt of several hundred thousand kroner, so if they owe 1,000 kroner. From or through, which is what this fine costs, doesn't make much difference. This is where there is a problem, and it may be that some other methods need to be used. I just mention it because you can imagine that you're just getting nonsense and trouble out of this, and best as you think you've gotten it, you've got another anti-social person out of it that rolls down the window and yells out vulgar words to the rest of us who abide by the rules. So we're going to be actively asking about this, but we support it, and I should say from the SF that they are doing the same. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320150338	You're welcome, sir. Rasmus Prehn, and welcome to Mr. Jan Erik Messmann from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320150346	Thank you, President. Bill No. L 152 is concerned with the introduction of a system which will ensure that owners or permanent users of uninsured vehicles also pay for the damage they themselves cause. This is done by introducing daily charges for non-payment of the liability insurance premium, i.e. on uninsured vehicles. It is also a question of setting up the scheme in such a way as to give strong motivation to the uninsured owners or enduring users by the fact that the fees imposed on them quickly exceed the insurance premium that should have been paid and by ensuring that daily charges are granted the right of withdrawal. Under the current scheme, damage caused by uninsured vehicles is covered by the Guarantee Fund of the Danish Association for International Motor Vehicle Insurance, DFIM, and this ultimately means that costs, on average 45.1 million. kr. a year, as Rasmus Prehn also just mentioned, is paid by the law-abiding vehicle owners who have already taken out liability insurance. And when we, who are law-abiding vehicle owners, have to cover the costs caused by the law-breakers, we do so through increased insurance premiums. It is neither right nor proper for law-abiding citizens to pay for the damage caused by uninsured criminals. With this arrangement we correct it and send the bill directly to those who break the law. And with the scheme, we also allow the right of daily allowances to be granted, in the same way as the right of withdrawal under the applicable rules is granted to premiums for civil liability insurance. In other words, we ensure that the money can be recovered in one way or another. In future, it will therefore be the owners or users of the uninsured vehicles who also pay for the damage they themselves cause. Law is law, and law must be kept. Therefore, the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320150558	Thank you, sir. Jan Erik Messmann, and welcome to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320150607	Thank you for that, President. The bill here is designed to ensure that law-abiding car owners no longer have to pay for the damage done by non-insured car owners. The two previous speakers have already given excellent details of the content of the draft law, so I shall be fairly brief, which may otherwise be difficult for a politician. The bill means that in future, the car owner or the durable user of a vehicle who has not paid their liability insurance will be charged a daily fee per year. day they are not insured. I understand that this fee will be in the order of DKK 250. per day, and it will be the Danish Association for International Motor Vehicle Insurance, DFIM, which can charge the fee. The daily fee may be charged until the prize award is paid or the vehicle license plates are withdrawn. In future, therefore, there will be no freewheeling as far as the insurance burden is concerned, and in future this will also be an incentive for all car owners, of course, to take out statutory liability insurance and for us to get people to assume this responsibility. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320150727	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, and welcome to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320150745	Thank you. After the comments on this bill, it is evident that what comes back from the Guarantee Fund DFIM is minimal. The right to a right of recourse to those drivers who do not pay is apparently not enough. It is an excellent and fair system of solidarity built up with the guarantee fund. It is financed by the insurance companies, however, taking the money from the individual policyholder through the premium on liability insurance. Strictly speaking, the funding could also be drawn from the profits that insurance on cars generates each year. The aim of the draft law to put an end to the abuse, or let us just call it Nazism, of the system of solidarity is sympathetic enough and should be supported. Nevertheless, the draft law gives rise to some comments. First of all, therefore, the scale of the problem is limited. According to the comments, only 1.6%. of the Danish vehicles uninsured. In Sweden it is 1%, and here there has been a decrease from 3% to 1% since the Swedish scheme was introduced in 1978. Insurance & Pension estimates that a scheme in Denmark will also reduce the number to one third of the current level, i.e. to just over 0.5%. Honestly, I think you're shooting gray sparrows with cannons. I think the insurance companies and their lobby organization have been active here. At the same time, if it were, the rules for payment could be changed, so that damage to property was also paid, even if there was no injury at the same time. It was nothing but fair. In our view, therefore, the scope is not great, and at the same time the police have been given an effective tool in the toolbox, namely anpg scanners, who will in no time be able to identify the cars on which insurance has not been paid, for example. By scanning every car in a parking lot. It must therefore be assumed that the number of uninsured vehicles will in any case fall dramatically in the years to come. Also Insurance & Pension's proposal to limit a citizen's ability to unsubscribe their own vehicle via SKAT without informing whether the new owner will be able to help with the problem. As you know, in the Enhedslisten, we do not want private companies such as DFIM, the Guarantee Fund, to have access to public registers. Much depends here on what information can be accessed and we have to ask whether information such as the cause of insurance cessation is listed as such in the Vehicle Register, i.e. whether it constitutes an independent column that can be withdrawn, or whether all sorts of other information on car debts, fines, etc. are followed. etc. We also think that this is a slippery slope when you can bypass an address protection that a citizen may have, or information about the social security number may be passed on even if the consent of the insured person is not available. Again, it has to be seen in the light of the fact that we think the problem here has a very limited scope. I also note the Attorney General's recommendation that the comments on the bill should deal with the principle that you cannot be punished twice for the same offence, as the penalty for non-life insurance for the car is maintained at the same time as the possibility of charging a fee. Quite frankly, I think that the explanation given in the comments is rather easy, bearing in mind that the daily fee is a fee and not a criminal offence, and that is what explains it. But I would say that the Attorney General has discovered this when he writes his remarks, and yet he is asking for further clarification. I think the Ministry of Transport here is just as cocky as it is. The Ministry of Transport will set a fee of DKK 250. for each day that has not been paid for liability insurance. This appropriation is intended to cover payments from the Fund to the injured parties and administrative costs. Total expenditure is expected to amount to 53 million. kr. on average per year; years. How this fits in with the fact that average payments from 45.1 million should be expected to fall. kr. If it is to follow the expectations of the decline in the number of uninsured vehicles, it may well have to remain uncertain unless the administrative costs suddenly explode. In addition, we have sympathy for the proposal from the Council for Safe Transport to use any surplus from the system for road safety promotion, including the well-known campaigns.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151221	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested, and welcome to Mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151232	Thank you. When the Road Traffic Code requires all owners or users of motor vehicles to take out liability insurance, it is because, as a society, we do not think it is reasonable that a victim of a road accident may be at risk of bearing all the costs when the accident is out. I guess it's also natural for there to be a sanction if you don't meet these requirements. As it is today, all law-abiding car owners help to pay for those who knowingly or unconsciously bypass the law. We have heard that several times today, and that is obviously not fair. It is my clear expectation that a system such as this will help to significantly reduce the number of underinsured people and that, at the same time, we will ensure a fairer distribution of expenditure, so that it is really the underinsured who will ultimately pay. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151329	Thank you for that, and welcome to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151335	Thank you. L 152 has been well explained by the previous rapporteurs. It is absolutely important that we can all travel safely and safely in traffic and, of course, it is also important that an engine-driven vehicle is responsible. And so we agree with the government that it is not fair for ordinary citizens who have so it is positive that we lean against Sweden and look at their experiences. Then I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it may be a huge cannon against some grey sparrows here. I think we should talk about this in committee. I would also like to know whether the revenue from these daily charges will ultimately benefit policy holders and that it will not only benefit the utilities who have advocated this. Those were the words, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151447	Thank you for that, and welcome to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151452	In the Radical Left too, we do not think it is right that some people should be free-wheeling and not have insurance and then just let everyone else pay if there is an accident. We believe, like a number of other parties, that this scheme can help get people to take out insurance. At least they'll get a daily ticket if they don't take out insurance. So we can support the bill and also look forward to clarifying what Enhedslisten asked about, with data, so we are sure that people's data is still private.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151531	Thank you for that, and we welcome Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151543	I have nothing interesting to add beyond what has already been said. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151557	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, and welcome to the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320151605	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. When we travel in traffic, there is an inevitable risk of road accidents. We can implement many different measures that can reduce the risk and the work to minimise the number of road accidents is important. But the risk will always be there no matter what we do. The fact that traffic causes road accidents is unfortunately a fact that we do not get around. Traffic accidents involving injury to persons or objects often involve very high financial and human costs. It is therefore important that those who are injured by road accidents have access to compensation without having to carry out expensive and cumbersome legal proceedings. That is why the Road Traffic Code also contains a rule that there is an obligation to take out liability insurance for motor vehicles used in the field of road traffic law. It is precisely for the sake of the injured in the traffic. When an owner or permanent user has not subscribed the statutory liability insurance, damage caused by the Danish Association for International Motor Vehicle Insurance, also known as DFIM, is covered. DFIM is a guarantee scheme whose costs are covered by the individual insurance companies. The insurance companies will be covered by the collection of insurance premiums. In other words, the uninsured owners do not pay for the damage they cause. The costs are paid instead by the law-abiding vehicle owners who have taken out liability insurance. I do not think that is fair. The aim of the draft law is to introduce a system which will ensure that owners and enduring users of uninsured vehicles pay more for the damage they themselves cause. It is therefore proposed that DFIM may charge a daily fee to the owner or the durable user for each day the road insurance obligation of the Road Traffic Act is not complied with. The daily charges charged shall contribute to the financing of DFIM's compensation costs. In this way, there will be a more reasonable financing mechanism between the uninsured owners and the end-users. At the same time, the proposed daily fee scheme is also intended to motivate uninsured owners and enduring users. The total value of daily charges will quickly exceed the insurance premium that should have been paid. It is therefore also my expectation that the system will mean that the number of uninsured vehicles will decrease. This has certainly been the case in Sweden, which has had similar arrangements since 1978. The scheme has contributed to a reduction in the number of uninsured vehicles of approx. 66 per cent. As the bill shows, I expect that the daily fee will be set at DKK 250. This may sound violent at first hand, but the purpose of the scheme is precisely that daily charges should be able to cover DFIM's costs to a large extent and at the same time to motivate insurance plans. It should also be borne in mind here that these are not cases where, by mistake or omission, you pay your insurance premium a few days too late. I guess that could happen to most of us. On the other hand, the daily charges must only be charged from the time when the vehicle is considered uninsured, i.e. approx. 8 weeks after the insurance company has sent a charge on the premium payment. In addition, the insurance contract must be terminated and a written notice must be sent to the policy holder warning of the risk of daily charges. The uninsured owners and enduring users have therefore had plenty of time and opportunity to obtain liability insurance and thus avoid the imposition of daily charges. I think it is most appropriate that the arrangements for the practical administration of the scheme should be laid down by means of a notice. This applies in particular to the necessary exchange of information between insurance companies, SKAT and DFIM. The draft law therefore contains legal provisions allowing the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing and the Minister for Taxation to lay down such rules. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152101	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152107	Thank you, Minister. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we Social Democrats support this bill. It seems quite reasonable. But two questions: can the Minister rule out the fact that we simply end up in a situation where we get a whole lot of expenses and trouble trying to charge these daily charges, but cannot really charge them because they are very anti-social people who do not want to contribute? That was question one. Question two: If it succeeds if it actually succeeds in getting this money in, can we expect insurance companies to lower the price on our insurance policies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152149	We can expect the scheme to have the same success as it has in, among other things. Sweden and Norway. That's where it works, and it's after inspiration from it that we do it. So there is no reason to believe that Danes are so different from Swedes and Norwegians that it will not work in Denmark as well. Insurance companies have to do what they want with their premiums. However, they are in competition with each other and when the pressure of expenditure falls because they do not have to cover this cost because it is being covered by people themselves who are not insured they pay daily charges. We must expect that ordinary competition will drive prices down to a level equivalent to the new, lower costs incurred by insurance companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152240	Thank you, Minister. I think the response that it has worked in other countries is very good. I choose to believe that. But is the Minister open to further sanctions if you do not pay? I mean, is there anything else you need? That was one thing. The second point is with regard to prices: I like the answer. There is nothing we can do here on the part of the Danish Parliament. But we can send a signal that we are aware of it and that we have an expectation that, if we can remove this expense from them, the insurance companies will at least stop increasing the price of these premiums. So let us at last put pressure on them for that, because consumers would like to have lower insurance premiums.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152318	I'd love to. I have an expectation that the premiums will be lower as a result of this, and I do not think I will be disappointed in that unless there are some other costs that are increasing in the meantime. One can never know whether there is a wild development in Danish society, which means that the cost of being an insurance company increases. It may well be that there will be a majority at a time when insurance companies will be subject to tax increases or the like. Then you can never know what's going on. About how we ensure that people pay their daily fees: You can take a mortgage on their property if they don't pay them. It's in this bill that you can. That should probably be a deterrent, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152355	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152358	Whether this leads to reductions in the premiums for civil liability insurance, I would consider doubtful. Because the amount isn't that big, you can save on this. If it is to be spread over all the hundreds of thousands of liability insurances, then I do not think that the amount will be so large that it will be noticeable. A little along the lines of that, I would just like to hear some of what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask whether the Minister really thinks that this problem is so great that we should actually take action against legislation. I ask, of course, because the Minister is a member of a party which is otherwise known for not unduly legislating on, among other things. such conditions here, and that the state does not, at all, have to interfere with such things by the Danish Parliament when, in my opinion and in the view of Enhedslisten, the problem is not greater.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152504	It is a well-known fact that Enhedslisten does not, like the other parties in the Folketing, believe in the benefits of private property and competition. The rest of us believe that this leads to the best possible product and the lowest possible price for consumers. Enhedslisten does not believe this because it is believed that private companies should be owned by society or by the state, and then you should control the prices of the Folketing and all the sort of things that we knew from the old Eastern bloc, as Mr. Henning Hyllested has also backed up. But I believe it. I believe that competition lowers prices. Then I also believe that this is a good and important step, both in concrete terms, by making it cheaper to take out insurance, but also by increasing justice and not having to pay for those who are irresponsible and who do not take out liability insurance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152601	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152603	Just for the record: I think there are a great many members of the Enhedslisten who will pay attention to the description given by the minister of what it means to be a member of the Enhedslisten. There are very many different ideas about how to deal with this issue. What I really wanted to ask was whether the Minister agrees with me that the calculation made is that this is going to cost 53 million. kr., does not last one metre, bearing in mind that the number of uninsured vehicles is basically going to fall as one, and, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that the police anpg scanners will in any case mean that the number of uninsured vehicles must decrease drastically. So unless it all goes to administrative costs, the accounts don't last a meter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152659	There are probably different views on many cases in Enhedslisten. However, everyone is a member of a party which has a programme of principles, and the programme of principles states that private property must be abolished and that the means of production must somehow be transferred to collective ownership. So I think that is common to all members of the Enhedslisten If it turns out that the number of uninsured falls just as much as in Sweden, then the number of daily fines set will also decrease, and then the money that comes into the box will not be as large as that, Mr President. Henning Hyllested is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152737	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152742	Thank you for that, President. What makes me ask a question is something that may well have been discussed in committee, I cannot say that. But if you don't pay your weight tax, the police and the SKAT cut the plates. Why can't the same insurance system be set up? Because I think it's important that you have insurance. When you buy a new car, you are asked which insurance company you want, and of course that should also be the case when buying used cars. But why can't you simply cut the plates instead of introducing a fee? You could say, you don't pay your insurance, so you can't drive, and we'll cut the plates until you pay the insurance. Why can't you use a system like that? As I said, it may be that you have talked about it in committee, but I just think it would be a reasonable option, because it is the state that is charging the weight tax and cutting the plates if it is not paid, and it is almost the same file you are looking for to see who has paid and who has not paid. Then cut the plates instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152844	Well, that was an opportunity too. We have not discussed this in connection with this bill, but I would like to dive into it and see if it was another way to go on top of the fact that we are also charging these daily tickets. But right now I have not had the opportunity to think about or delve properly into the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152909	That's quite fair. It is not easy to deal with from the platform, I am fully aware of that. But you still have to see who hasn't paid their insurance, and then you have to find them and charge them daily. And then there is the question of whether it is the owner or a durable user who is running in it and who is not paying the insurance. Then it would be easier simply to cut the plates and say: You should not be allowed to drive if you have not paid your insurance. That's fair and fair. It is the safety of other people who suffer if you drive without insurance. Typically, it may also be an old car that is not too safe to drive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320152946	Now maybe I think that mr. Bent Bøgsted's question nevertheless made me a little cleverer why it could be that you don't immediately go to this. For the license plate and the car are owned by the owner of the car, but if there is another permanent user who is responsible for taking out liability insurance, you can say that if you cut the license plate, you punish the wrong person. That may be the reason why we have not gone that way in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153014	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153021	Thank you. Now I do not know whether the Minister is aware of this, but he mentions, among other things, that there is virtually no difference between Swedish and Danish policy holders in terms of purely consumer behaviour. Then I would just like to say that it is there, and that is what happens, among other things. the way in which payment capacity and willingness to pay are perceived. When it comes to Danish non-life insurance customers, I do not know how many of them we are talking about in this specific proposal, which either does not have the ability to pay or the willingness to pay. I would like to know if the Minister had any idea. But now the Minister mentioned in his reply to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, that one could just take the mortgage on real estate of those who are now in need or have not actually paid their insurance premium. I would just like to point out that the Minister is also the Minister for Housing and that the majority of Danes live in a rental residence. So how is this going to take place with a pledge? How does it spread among those who we already know do not pay for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153132	I do not have any figures as to whether it is a lack of willingness to pay or a lack of ability to pay that is why people do not take out liability insurance. With regard to the second question of taking a mortgage, let us say that you cannot afford to have a car with the costs that go with it, including liability insurance, which is a condition for letting you on our common roads. It is a condition that you have taken out liability insurance. You can drive around in a field or on a racetrack or something without liability insurance, but if you are going on the common roads that we have, you have to meet the requirement to have liability insurance. If you don't, then it is that we come and take a day fee, and if you don't pay the day fee by yourself, then we come and take people's things. I think that is a fair consequence of putting a burden on society that one should have taken on oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153242	I fully agree with the Minister that it is totally irresponsible to drive around without insurance. It is to the detriment of yourself, but in particular to the detriment of those in the surrounding society who may be at risk of harm. So I fully agree that we need to take a tough approach to this. I'm just interested in how. The fact that we have to live up to the rules that there is a legal requirement that you have to have liability insurance when you drive a car or have a car, I support a hundred percent. But when you say that there will be daily fines and a daily fee for some people who may not have the ability to pay and probably also do not have a mortgage, how will the government recover these outstanding claims that can only increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153338	They must be recovered as they usually are recovered when you take the mortgage. I am not an expert on that, but I know that this is not a new concept we are introducing here. It is a well-known concept that we draw on and use.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153353	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I could say that I propose that we refer the proposal to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing, but I could also ask you: is there a request for referral to committee? Well, you haven't done that before. In fact, the President's paper also says that you can ask. Is there a request for referral to committee? Yes, there is. At least it's someone who nods. Then it goes to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. So it's adopted this way. I also said this in order to wake up colleagues a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153440	The debate is open and the first rapporteur to speak is Mrs Mette Reissmann from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153500	Today we are discussing Bill L 153, which is a proposal to amend the Building Act. The aim is to strengthen the link between fire regulation in the building law and the work of municipal tools. As things are today, most local tools are not a direct part of the municipality. This also means that the municipal council must not allow local authorities to make binding decisions unless there is an explicit legal basis in the legislation itself, and that is what we are talking about here. Of course, in certain situations this can prevent preparedness from taking legal and immediate decisions in order to prevent acute issues and also illegal situations. There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party believes that, precisely with the specific legislative proposal, we will make the process more flexible, and we will also ensure that, when we talk about these illegal situations, personal safety is maintained. There have been some examples which have also been mentioned, among others. in the comments to the bill, in relation to the fact that if there is today a malfunction in a required operational fire alarm system in a building, the preparedness will not be able to dispense with that requirement by e.g.: to require a fire guard until the fire alarm system works again. Instead, contact the municipality's building department, which then decides on the actual illegal situation. This could lead to an inappropriate amount of time before the problem is really resolved. So, as the consultation answers also show, it is simply the municipalities that have also asked for this amendment to the building law. In the Social Democratic Party, we do not want to water down the influence of municipal councils by delegating too many competences, but we do not consider that to be the case with the present draft law either. This opens up only the possibility for the municipal council to assign authority tasks to the emergency services. We are in favour of the draft law and believe that the draft law gives municipalities a better opportunity to assess for themselves how the tasks linked to fire safety are carried out in the best possible way. So the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153708	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320153718	Thank you, President. The bill contains several different points for amendments to the Building Act. The most important change is to strengthen the link between fire regulation and local rescue services. When, under the previous government supported by the Danish People's Party and the Left, we put together the municipal rescue services for so-called §60 companies, the municipalities were at the same time deprived of the opportunity to delegate certain decisions to the new rescue services. A section 60 company is a cooperation between several municipalities, which means that the individual municipal authorities will have a reduction in their powers over the company. This means that the municipal councils are not, as in the past, an integral part of the municipality. It is the municipalities that are building authority under the Building Act, and thus it is they who issue building permits etc. At the same time, it is the municipal council which ensures that construction legislation is complied with and has the authority to issue injunctions or prohibitions by recognizing illegal conditions according to section 16 of the Building Act. 2. This did not present any challenges as the rescue services were an integral part of the municipalities. It was possible for the municipal council to delegate the authority directly to the municipal rescue service. When these 60 companies were set up, this opportunity to delegate authority disappeared. It is this that the bill will correct. It is therefore imperative that local authorities transfer powers to these municipal communities in order to be able to act on behalf of individual municipalities. This also applies even if the individual municipal rescue teams had various powers prior to the structural reform in this area. This draft law provides for the possibility for local authorities to provide rescue services in certain situations with the possibility of taking decisions on illegal situations. From the time of detection of breaches of fire legislation and to, for example, the fact that there is a risk of fire-fighting. If an order is to be issued or the like, as little time as possible will have to be allowed. If the bill is adopted, the emergency services will be able to operate when they are on fire view or otherwise called in order to be able to take a legally and immediately binding decision to prevent illegal, dangerous or reckless use of fire safety under the Building Act, as is the case today, in order to be able to impose or prohibit any conditions imposed on the owner or users of the site. Violation of fire and construction legislation can have disastrous consequences where people can be injured or even lose their lives. It is therefore important that action be taken on this as soon as possible. As a side benefit, the procedure will be made more flexible and, at the same time, it will be less bureaucratic in that it will not be submitted to the municipalities. In addition, the draft law allows municipalities to rate building fees once a year. It is reasonable that the amount of building fees, which would have to be determined on the basis of the resource consumption that the municipalities have to bear in such procedures, should have the possibility of being indexed once a year. With this I would like to say that the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154059	Thank you, sir. Jan Erik Messmann, and welcome to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154112	Thank you, sir. President. With the bill here we are making a change to the building law so that we strengthen the link between fire regulation and municipal tools. The aim is to get more flexibility into the process, in relation to the need for fire protection of buildings, and that is something that absolutely must be in order. The draft law provides that in future the municipal council will be empowered by the Building Act to assign management tasks and decision-making powers under the Building Act to the related tools. This will ensure that the preparedness in its operation can take decisions with legal and immediate effect in order to prevent illegal or dangerous fire safety conditions. However, this possibility will apply only in situations where, at the time of the provision, the municipal council considers that it is not itself in a position to take a decision within a reasonable period of time. Today it is the case that a number of tools are organized so that they are not directly part of the municipality, and this has the consequence that the municipal council cannot choose to entrust the tasks of the authority to tools in areas where there is no direct legal basis in the legislation. In practice, therefore, and this is what is important, situations could arise where the authorities do not have the authority to deal with emergency situations, and this is obviously inappropriate and inflexible, and I welcome the fact that the proposal for a directive will make the process more flexible without compromising fire safety in any way. My colleague has referred to the content of the draft law on fees, fixing and adjusting annually, and so, in conclusion, I would like to mention that the draft law also provides for the Minister to now be authorised to introduce rules on penalties for infringements of the Construction Products Regulation, thereby ensuring, contrary to the rules in force, that the proposed coinage can refer directly to infringements of the Construction Products Regulation by imposing penalties. So all in all, this is a good legislative proposal, which the Left can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154336	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, and welcome to Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154345	As our rapporteur, sir. Soren Egge Rasmussen, could not be present today, I have had the pleasure. And the previous rapporteurs have, in an excellent way and, in some cases, in very detailed terms, explained the content of the draft law, so that I do not have to do so. So there is only to say that when the draft law provides for local tools by the municipalities to be authorised to make decisions on fire safety matters, then the Enhedslisten backs this up. The Enhedslisten believes that authority tasks as a starting point need to be handled by the authorities, but in the real world one can easily imagine that a municipal preparedness with their experience and competences can establish conditions that require action here and now. In this context, however, the Enhedslisten is also satisfied that the scope of the authorisation granted is affected by the wordings contained in the bill, that there must be unlawfulness, that there must be a specific risk of personal injury and that the municipality itself will not be able to decide within a reasonable period of time on the unlawful fire safety situation. As regards the proposal to clarify matters relating to minor flat-rate fees and penalties for infringements of the Construction Products Regulation, Enhedslisten has no comments. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154508	Thank you. And welcome to Mr. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154514	The most important element of the draft law is in fact that we actually remove one of the bureaucratic obstacles that municipalities and citizens face in connection with fire authority tasks. The rules, as they are today, can result in a situation in which, due to lack of formal competence, preparedness cannot deal with acute problems. You have to wait for a decision from the municipal council, and that is not always the case, not at all if there is a situation at 1 p.m. 15 a Friday afternoon. This cannot be served either by preparedness or by the citizens, so the Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154555	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen, and welcome to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154602	Thank you for that, President. L 153 has been well examined by the previous rapporteurs. With the 2015 structural reform, the municipal fire shelters were assembled into so-called section 60 companies, which operate as autonomous municipal units. Therefore, the need has arisen to create a greater link between fire regulation in the Building Act and the operation of fire preparedness. The alternative is immediately favourable to the government's legislative proposals, which provide for the possibility for the municipal council to place certain powers of authority on the alert. I understand the overall purpose as a question of whether it would be beneficial for emergency preparedness to act as a fire authority in certain emergency situations. In other words, the draft law means that the municipal council can assign certain tasks to the emergency services so that, in an illegal and risky situation, the preparedness can decide on the spot. The exercise of powers is confined to situations in which the municipal council considers that it is not possible to take a decision within a reasonable period of time. I look forward to the work of the committee, where I can learn more about the conditions under which the municipal council itself is unable to act as a fire authority. And otherwise we are in favour of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154723	You're welcome, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, and welcome to Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154734	In the Radical Left, we would in principle like decisions concerning citizens to be taken as close as possible to the citizens. We believe that this makes decisions easier to understand for citizens. This also makes it quicker and easier and hopefully also makes decisions that are appropriate to the specific situation. That is why we can support the bill here. We think it is a good idea for a municipality to be allowed to say that local preparedness can take decisions on fire safety. We believe that preparedness is competent to take that decision, and we also believe that it is a good idea, as the Social Democratic rapporteur also mentioned, that each municipality should decide for itself which decisions it wants to put forward for preparation and which one would like to hold in the municipal office. So we believe that this can make it more flexible and easier for both citizens and municipalities and also for preparedness, and that is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154839	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and welcome to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154845	Thank you. I shall be brief, because, in line with the other rapporteurs, the SF does not have many comments on the proposal. Admittedly, the structural reform of preparedness is not a flower that has grown in our gardens, among other things. Because it was underfunded. And, quite frankly, the problem should also give rise to reconsidering whether it was wise to organise the preparedness as Article 60 companies, precisely because the construction does not mean that authority tasks can be transferred to the preparedness, where they really belong. But this is the way it is organised, and the SF supports the proposal, partly because it must obviously facilitate some construction work and partly because the amendment of the building law has been sought by the municipalities. And besides, I guess it makes perfect sense that you can fix the small building fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154941	Thank you for that, and welcome to Mr. Anders Johansson from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320154949	Thank you very much. The purpose of the bill is to provide greater flexibility and to strengthen the link between the fire regulation in the Building Act and the work of the municipal tools. And as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the purpose of this bill is to ensure that the municipal council, after these tools have been organized in §60 companies, can still delegate the competence for these authority tasks to the civil service. We also think, of course, that it is very sensible for us to be able to take a closer look at matters in the specific cases, even in those cases where it might be thought that the administration, for example, is in a position to deal more effectively with them. has closed at the weekend and there is a festival or other event where there is a need for a decision to be made on the site. Of course, it makes very good sense to have these competences as a means of preparedness, and that is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320155049	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson, and welcome to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, who surely cannot complain about not having support in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320155101	No, on the contrary, and therefore, especially today, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. The aim of the proposed bill is firstly to give greater flexibility to the building authorities in the municipalities of the country in the organisation of their work. This should be done by allowing the municipal council to assign certain authority tasks relating to fire conditions under the Building Act to local equipment. Since January 2016, most tools have been organised in so-called §60 companies. These companies are owned by the municipalities but are no longer a direct part of the municipality. This means that the municipal council cannot, without a legal body, delegate authority to the emergency services. Such a legal basis does not exist in the building law today. Therefore, as the rules are today, situations may arise in practice where, in their activities as a fire department, emergency situations and illegal situations regulated by the Building Act are not permitted to be dealt with. It can, for example, be done. be if the emergency response is called to a hospital due to a fail-safe alarm from a fire alarm system. If, on the spot, it turns out that the plant does not work in the way it should after the building permit, the preparedness will not, as the rules are today, be able to allow continued use of the hospital by dispensing from parts of the building permit. The derogation could, for example, require a fire guard in the hospital until the fire alarm system works again. Instead, today's preparedness will have to address the municipality's building department, which will then have to take a decision on the actual illegal situation. This may mean that there is an inappropriate period of time before a decision is taken on the matter and the illegal situation is legalised. Similarly, the lack of legal basis may be a problem in cases where, shortly before the start of a allowed festival as part of their fire vision, the preparedness becomes aware that the festival does not comply with the building permit. Here, too, the illegal relationship will have to be reported to the construction office of the municipality. This may be a problem in order to continue to run the festival if the illegal situation, for example, exists. a Saturday morning occurs, where the building case office may have closed completely in practice, and the festival must last the weekend. With the proposed change, the municipal council will be able to allow on-site preparedness to derogate from specific requirements in the building permit if an equivalent fire safety level can otherwise be achieved. The possibility for the municipal council to lay down powers and obligations for the emergency response only covers situations where the municipal council has previously considered that it will not itself be able to decide within a reasonable period of time on the unlawful fire safety situation under the Building Act. In other words, the municipal council is given the opportunity to allow preparedness to act when it is still out doing its job, for example. by a fire vision. With the change, in the cases mentioned, we will be able to ensure a sound level of personal safety, because the preparedness will be able to act on the ground when necessary. The change will also benefit owners, users and organisers because on-site preparedness will allow the continued use of a building or festival area or similar area rather than the closure of the building or area until the municipal council has taken a decision on the matter. With the change, for example, it will. also be able to decide that a festival area can be set up differently from the building permit if the organiser wishes to change the setup on the day. This, of course, presupposes that this can be done in a sound manner with regard to the fire safety of the event. Secondly, the draft law clarifies the legal basis for the annual indexation of the lower fixed fee, which is the ceiling on the amount of the municipal council can charge as a fixed fee for the construction proceedings. At the same time, the fee ceiling is written into the law. As in the past, the municipal council may also choose to charge a fee after time and may choose to finance all or part of the construction proceedings. The amount shall be adjusted annually at the rate of the general index of prices and wages set by the Ministry of Finance. The fee ceiling was introduced into the Construction Act in 2016 and was then set at DKK 1,000. Thirdly, a change of a more legal nature is proposed as a consequence of the move from an EU directive to an EU regulation which is directly applicable in the area of construction products, which should be transposed into national law. The proposal authorises penalties to be imposed in the form of fines for infringements of EU regulations and directives on construction products. As the rules are today, penalties cannot be imposed directly on infringements of the Construction Products Regulation. Instead, there is a penalty for infringement of the Market Control Regulation, which refers to EU rules. It is therefore necessary, as it were, to take a legal detour in order to achieve the objective of punishing these EU rules in the field of construction. Since the Regulation is directly applicable in Denmark, direct reference should also be made to the Construction Products Regulation for penalties for infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for the discussion of the draft law here today and thank you for the rapporteurs' comments on this. I look forward to a constructive committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320155638	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we will try the traditional decision on the committee. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320155702	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320155719	There is absolutely no doubt that having a better and more aviation strategy is absolutely crucial. There is no doubt that having good air links is an important nerve in terms of creating growth, development and getting new investments. When we look at e.g. Copenhagen Airport, then it is that we have so centrally located an airport with such good other infrastructure options that it is related to both motorway network, train connection, metronet, taxi connection, bikes, everything else, essential for many to want to place their business exactly in the Copenhagen area. I also think it has to be said that such a large institution as the United Nations city would hardly have been provided if it were not because we have a super-centrally located airport, which also has hub facilities with many international flights. Having a high-priority aviation system means a tremendous amount to the development of a society. That is why we Social Democrats are also pleased and positive that the government has launched this work to create an offensive aviation strategy. We have followed it closely, and there have been times when the government's involvement in this area has been very great, and a lot of effort has been put into it. You have also been around many different things, including lately, where you may have narrowed it a little more in relation to the more framework-conditional dimensions of it, and where this bill will then be implemented with the emphasis that it should now be easier, more flexible, more dynamic to operate aviation. This is something that we Social Democrats can support and support. It is very positive that there should be better framework conditions for those who want to operate air transport and that we should be hand in hand with the fact that these charges that are at the airport are not too violent, that there is a focus on the fact that this is linked to the costs you have and that the Minister is given the power to intervene if it becomes too extensive. That's really positive. The possibility of following the expansion of flight stations also makes sense. We think it is worth reading into the consultation answers given, among other things. Copenhagen Airport and others have some concern about whether it is now going to interfere unnecessarily with their ability to build out. It seems to me immediately that the Ministry responds reasonably well to that in the hearings, but it may be that we ask a few follow-up questions. But I think there's a lot of really good dimensions in this. For us, too, as consumers, it is positive to know that service targets are being set, so that something like not having to wait too long to get through security is something that matters. If you fly a lot, it's a real killer to stand there and have to wait in a long line to get security clearance. So positive. We then think that, given the opportunity to discuss aviation strategy, there is much else that could be discussed, perhaps not only in the context of a legislative proposal, but we would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to address the fact that there are some challenges out there. For we are a little surprised that the government seems to have completely turned down the ambitions of having the EU perspective that we are trying at European level to create a clear strategy to avoid social dumping in the aviation sector. It is therefore a well-known fact that some of these major Middle Eastern airlines do not mention anything, no forgotten airlines operate in a way that, firstly, they are state-aided and thus come in and dump the market, and secondly, they have working conditions that are approaching the feudal. If it's the case that you have to be hired, you're almost video-monitored. If you get pregnant, you get fired right away, you just have a little illness, you get fired right away. Wage and working conditions are also sometimes questionable. In the United States, it has been decided to be differently ambitious in relation to who gets to fly to US airports, who lives up to US pay and working conditions. They are the ones who get to fly where some of these so-called sandbox companies are held out in a stretched arm because they are questionable. There, in the context of a law, you could outline what you have of opportunities. You could also go out in the presentation of the bill and say what you intend to pick up in EU terms. That is not all we can do, and we should not have a situation where we in Denmark do a great deal, so we lose competitive advantages over Germany and Sweden. It's no use. We must be able to lift this at a European level. But we could address it just a little more. I also think that when we know that there are trends out there in relation to more green conversion, it could have been included. I see that my speaking time has expired. We support this bill from the Social Democratic Party. It is a step in the right direction. I've promised to tell you for Mr. Simpson. Karsten Hønge from the Socialist People's Party that SF does the same. So with those words, we will back the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320160251	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320160258	Thank you for that, President. As our usual rapporteur is preoccupied with another sitting and has not returned to the Chamber, I have just promised to take the rapporteur's speech here. With this proposal, the government wants to implement a number of concrete initiatives in the aviation strategy, which therefore requires an adjustment of the rules in force. The draft law contains, among other things: a legal basis allowing the Minister to lay down detailed rules on service and capacity targets in aerodrome passenger-facing areas and to ensure that detailed rules on the supervision and enforcement of those rules can be laid down in order to ensure a system of penalties in the event of non-compliance with the objectives. The bill also provides a legal basis for the Minister to lay down rules for aerodromes to provide information on the economy of the aerodrome and air fares on a regular basis. The aim is for the authorities to monitor that the airport's tariffs comply with the EU's regulatory requirement to be cost-related. In addition, the draft law provides that the Minister may lay down rules on a post-regulation process as a result of the fact that the estimated revenue and costs do not correspond to what was calculated when setting the tariffs. In addition, the draft law provides for an adjustment of the safety contribution of aircraft weighing more than 5,700 kg or approved for more than ten passengers. Where this earlier was DKK 5.50, it is now reduced to DKK 4.75. per Passenger. Finally, this bill provides a legal basis for specifying the applicable rules for permits and approvals of extensions and changes to existing aerodromes. However, the provision proposes to make it quite clear that substantial increases and changes, for example. at Copenhagen Airport always require permission under Section 55 of the Aviation Act. 1. This must be done in order to enable Copenhagen Airport to expand in the future so that it can cope with the much increased and growing passenger influx. This means that you have to build more terminals and larger aircraft parking areas and, above all, change the important crossroads, 12-30, so that it is moved 500 m east towards the coast off the Øresund and at the same time turned 6 degrees. The Danish People's Party sees it as a natural part of the rapid development of the airport and can only endorse the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320160526	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. The next in line is Mr. Left. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320160538	Thank you, sir. President. With the bill here we follow up on the Government's visionary aviation strategy from July 2017. The whole point of this aviation strategy is that we strengthen and maintain Denmark's position as an attractive and leading aviation country. It is very good for Denmark that we have an extensive aviation, a thriving aviation, so we have many routes into the wider world. It is also very important that we have a very good and effective domestic aviation which helps bind our country together. That is why we must constantly seek to improve the framework conditions, and that is exactly what we are doing with the aviation strategy and then this legislative proposal that follows up on the strategy. The aim is to ensure that we have the necessary good basis for operating airports, also known as airports, with great national and international accessibility. The rules laid down in the Aviation Act shall contribute to the transparency and equivalence of the tariff, service and capacity levels between each aerodrome and the airlines. The bill here provides for the Minister to lay down rules on service and capacity, measured in the passenger-facing areas of the aerodromes. In addition, a system of sanctions is established in the event of failure to meet the objectives. Then it has to be followed up. In addition, the draft law provides for detailed rules to be laid down to allow aerodromes to submit periodically information relating to the economics and tariffs of the aerodrome. Thus, we can monitor that aerodromes comply with the EU rules' requirement that tariffs should be related to the costs, so that none of them will turn the tariffs up slightly too much. This is of course not for the benefit of the airlines and therefore of the passengers. Finally, the draft law provides a legal basis for establishing a regulation mechanism for airport charges and for adjusting the so-called safety contribution so that savings provided for in the scheme can be reduced. Overall, I think this is a very good legislative proposal, which is an important step towards strengthening Denmark's position as an attractive aviation country. And it is also a matter of history that the airport is helping to create thousands of jobs, not least here in the metropolitan area. But airports are indeed also important in the province as transport hubs and power centres. But there's one element left missing in this bill, and it's a rule about an investment pool that can support the smaller airports. It is, of course, the case that, in accordance with our safety rules, there are great requirements for investments in safety equipment around us, and there must be. We need a safe airport, we need to be safe by getting on the plane. However, it is clear that the cost of safety equipment of this kind is much higher in the smaller airports compared to the large airports. That is why the Left believes that we need to have an investment pool that can provide a subsidy when smaller airports such as Karup and Sønderborg, to mention a few examples, have to invest in this expensive equipment. So I hope that the Minister will take it on board that an amendment could be made that would enable us to have such an investment pool on the field. It will be something that will fall in a really dry place out at our smaller airports, which is absolutely essential for us to have a coherent Denmark in balance. With these words, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320160933	Very good, thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320160937	On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for a good and strong and very precise speech by the rapporteur. One of the things we attach great importance to is that there should be better conditions for the airports in the province too, so it is nice to hear that the Left is also concerned about that dimension. We in the Social Democratic Party think that this investment pool sounds wise and sensible. Can the Left go into other areas where it might be possible to meet the conditions that exist in the province, where it is also very important that there are good air links?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161014	Well we also note with satisfaction that we have succeeded in reducing tariffs at Copenhagen Airport. This means a great deal to domestic aviation and will strengthen domestic aviation, so it is absolutely crucial. It is also crucial, and I know Copenhagen Airport is very aware that there are good conditions for passengers, that you can pass through the airport very smoothly. There were some problems and some challenges a few years ago. Fortunately, it's settled. It's moving fast. So these are some of the things we welcome happening. But this investment in expensive safety equipment can help strengthen small airports and they need a hand in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161055	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161058	On the part of the Social Democrats, we also think it is a good idea to look at that very point. Because there's no doubt that for a smaller airport it's a disproportionate cost with this security, and we're interested in being able to remedy that. Does the rapporteur of the Left have an idea of where we can find this money, or can we make a financing model, or how can we approach it? We are very curious to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161123	I would like to sign for the positive approach of the Social Democratic Party to this proposal. It is clear that some money needs to be found. That is why we must, of course, in dialogue with the person sitting on the money box, namely the Minister for Finance. Then we'll see if we succeed. I hope that this will be resolved by means of an amendment. What we can do for smaller airports and for domestic airports at all is to scrap all the proposals that pop up from time to time that we now need higher passenger charges and so on. This is among other things. the extreme left who likes such proposals. We must, of course, totally reject this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161157	With that, we thank the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161209	Thank you. After all, the bill here translates some of the aviation strategy presented by the government in July 2017. The starting point of the aviation strategy is to create greater accessibility to Denmark by air, in other words, more air traffic. The Enhedslisten does not necessarily share this objective, as air traffic is highly environmentally harmful. After all, the aviation strategy is practically not dealing with this problem. And especially when it comes to domestic traffic, the need for more air traffic is hopeless from an environmental point of view. In this respect, it is striking with the government's fierce opposition to the Train Fund, which will precisely create fast train connections across our country. 3 hours between Copenhagen and Aalborg, 2 hours to Aarhus. This will make the train, which is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport we know, fully competitive with the aircraft, especially when electrification is fully developed. Having said that, of course, we recognise that air traffic has come to stay and that efforts must be directed to the development of other types of fuel, such as air transport. electric gasoline, which is fuel produced by electrolysis with current, e.g. from wind turbines. Electricity, solar cells will probably also be developed as a realistic alternative. You're already well at it. Like the aviation strategy as it was presented, this proposal for a directive is, in general, very much about the conditions at and around Copenhagen Airport. We find a number of the proposals in this bill quite reasonable, even if they are part of attracting more travellers. Overall, it makes sense for the state to interfere, if I may say so, more than it has been, and to introduce stricter controls on airports. These are, after all, essential infrastructure facilities with a great impact on mobility and accessibility. For the sake of good order, there should be no doubt that Enhedslisten would like to see such important infrastructure installations as airports and ports in fact should be in the hands of the state or public authorities. The divestment of Copenhagen Airport in its time has had some negative consequences, which this bill is actually trying to correct in substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161441	I certainly believe that the rapporteur can resume his speech when there is some calm in the Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161452	Thank you. Thus, it makes sense that the draft law introduces an obligation to provide information to airports in terms of cost level and tariffs and, in general, economics, in order to check that the two sizes are consistent so that the tariffs reflect the real costs of the various services provided by the airport and, in this respect, also provide for supervision. We also think it is sensible that we should have the opportunity to make a sharper effort in relation to the expansion of airports, in which, in particular, the debate on the crossroads over the last few years has been strongly held. We also think it is sensible to introduce maximum waiting times into security controls, just as tighter controls on waiting times in baggage handling and border controls are appropriate. We support the possibility of using instructions in this regard, which we cannot do today. With regard to the safety contribution, which is proposed to be reduced, I would like to ask whether it affects the resources financed by the Road Traffic Authority through the safety contribution or whether it only affects the savings that have taken place. I note, of course, that some of the many activities carried out by the Danish Road Traffic Authority with regard to the supervision and control of civil aviation are aimed at a large number of operators who do not pay the tax, including drone drivers. It is to be expected that the number of drone drivers will increase dramatically in the coming years, so of course many more resources, including, of course, the economy, money, will also have to be spent on this activity. After all, the draft law here does not address at all the overriding problem of social dumping in aviation, which was also addressed by the Socialist rapporteur, including the fact that a number of Middle Eastern companies, for example. Emirates and Kuwait Airways I have no objection to mentioning them or a few of them.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I guess you could call it cabotage. The unitary list would certainly welcome the fact that this problem was taken more seriously at European level, for example. This was reflected in the possibility, perhaps through tariffs, of restricting the number of take-offs and landings at European airports, including Copenhagen Airport, for these companies. Since the European Union and the Danish Government are so quick to fight state aid in the sacred name of liberalism here and there and everywhere, it is strange that companies with state aid and poor working conditions are allowed, especially the cabin crew, to put on our own crews in goose-eyes, such as the network companies. SAS, unfair competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161733	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161743	The bill here implements part of the government's aviation strategy. In general, the strategy means that more daily departures from Denmark and abroad will be established in the future, but also within the country. It will benefit the Danish business community because we create better links with foreign markets, and it will also strengthen the cohesion in Denmark because it will be easier to travel across the country. As has already been said, there is a need to keep an eye on capacity, i.e. whether it is in order and sufficient so that passengers do not experience excessive waiting times, for example. Security. This is done through the so-called service objectives. When we are dealing de facto with a monopoly, it may be necessary and it is, as such, whether it is a private or public monopoly that we resort to some form of regulation, including in the economic field, and that is what is happening here. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161846	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320161852	Thank you for that, President. Well, L 154! This proposal is the implementation of the Government's aviation strategy. The government wants to increase aviation by both making it cheaper and establishing more flights to and from Denmark and internally in Denmark. The government and the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing should be commended for worrying about the development of mobility and transport in Denmark, but we would like to see the climate as well. In the government's aviation strategy, climate is not mentioned with a word, as far as I remember, and it is strange to discuss a bill from the government which contrasts with both the Paris Agreement and the government's basis, in which it is promised that Denmark will be a pioneering country in the field of green conversion, and with a commitment to increased air transport, which is the most climate-laden form of transport, it will be extremely difficult to imagine that Denmark is a leading country. It is disappointing that the Ministry and the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing will not take responsibility for the development of a more climate-friendly transport policy, and it has to be asked whether the Minister does not think that transport policy is at all related to climate policy. It should be thought that the government basis applies to all ministers, including the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. In the alternative, we see it as absolutely, absolutely essential that we start to think the environment and climate in as a relevant and integral part of all our sectoral policies, so of course transport policy too. Therefore, if we are to achieve the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement, it is absolutely essential that all ministers are first and foremost ministers of climate and the environment. With several flights, the government wants to increase Denmark's availability for the benefit of economic growth. It seems to be about growth once again, regardless of the negative consequences it will have, for the climate, and regardless of the fact that there are other, more climate-friendly modes of transport, as was also mentioned by Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The government's transport policy we see as short-term, we said three years ago, and we say that again, and it does not only burden the climate and the environment. In fact, the lack of consideration draws Denmark technologically and in terms of development backwards. While other countries can take the lead, efforts in the longer term, even to the best of their ability, will cost us both in terms of economic and employment terms. In the alternative, we want a long-term policy which recognises that the climate crisis is the biggest threat today, not immigrants, but the climate crisis. It is a threat to the life on Earth that we know. Our generation is the first to feel the consequences of climate change, but we are also the last generation that will be able to address this • these most pressing problems before it is too late. It is right here and now that we are facing the task, and it is right here and now that we have to secure the conditions for a life on Earth in the future, a life that is also a dignified life seven generations out. Therefore, we believe that we should make a generational contract in the sense that every time politicians meet and negotiate, it is our joint responsibility to give a vote to the future: no new laws and agreements must impair the life prospects of future generations. I don't see anything about that in this bill. Although Denmark's total CO2 transport sector will therefore have to undergo one of the biggest and most radical changes in the coming years, and this should obviously also apply to current air transport. In the alternative, we therefore propose that all domestic aircraft should be powered by 2040. This requires that we invest research in energy, and it is particularly important to focus on these short flights, where emissions are generally higher than long-distance flights. In general, Danish transport policy should be marked by foresight! Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162321	Thank you. There is one brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162328	I would like to make sure that I understand it correctly: that the alternative is against the fact that we have a well-functioning airport in Copenhagen and that there are many flights to Copenhagen. It sounds like the alternative simply wants there to be fewer flights and that is why we are opposed to the proposal here. Is that really understood? And if that is true, I would like to ask who will pay for it. Who will pay if the alternative puts Denmark's economy at a standstill and there will be no jobs and growth in the metropolitan area and we are worse off than all other major cities in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162406	The alternative is against using economic incentives and forms of argument as the only valid form of argument when we talk about developing society and the environment. So, yes, the alternative believes that we should focus primarily on climate, and this also applies in the transport sector. No, I'm not saying we're gonna have fewer flights. I am saying that we must give priority to climate and the environment, so if we can find a legislative proposal and an agreement that gives priority to more EUDP funds, give priority to major research in the field of green transport, including in the field of air transport, alternative fuels, then it could be that we could be involved. But for the moment, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162458	It is very clear to me that the alternative is opposed to economic arguments. This is quite clear when we look at the policy of the alternative, which is totally devoid of economic arguments. But the question remains, who will pay for it. Who will pay for the loss of welfare that would exist if the policy of the Alternative were implemented, which would mean that there was much less money in the Treasury and in the municipal funds because there was less growth? Where should people be fired in the public sector, and what reduction in living standards should the Danes bear if the alternative gets its policy implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162539	It is clear that the rapporteur has not read the tax policy of the alternative at all. It is clear that the rapporteur is not aware that the alternative is very ambitious about economic development in Denmark and says that we are moving around at 120 billion. kr. It is clear in our figures for the future where we will put our taxes. And no, it doesn't show that we're poorer or poorer. Maybe we'll even find out that growth and materialism aren't the only arguments for being alive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162618	With that, we thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162630	Aviation is really important for Denmark and not least the Danish business community. I am convinced that a great many companies would find another place to have their headquarters, if not one, among other things. here from Copenhagen could fly to the main growth markets around the world. It is both about getting out and selling goods, but of course also about dragging people in from abroad to show them the goods and sell something to them. It is therefore important that we have a good policy on what we do at airports in Denmark. These airports are, of course, what is a little technically called a private monopoly. These are private funds that own, among other things. Copenhagen Airport. Of course there is a small airport in Roskilde, but basically you can't just choose another airport. That is why it is important for the State, the Community, to be able to regulate such a private monopoly. I do not think I am revealing any secrets here by saying that there has been a reasonable amount of discussion about whether Copenhagen Airport is charging too high tariffs to airlines, whether the service is too poor for us citizens, and whether too little is invested in developing the airport instead of paying out to the owners. With this bill, we are convinced that a government, regardless of who it is, and society will have the opportunity to regulate an airport, so that the charges, etc. that are being taken, are consistent with being able to develop the airport for the benefit of all of us. That is why we believe that those parts of the bill are a very good idea. There has also been a great deal of discussion in many places about security, i.e. the security check-in at Copenhagen Airport, whether it has been too bad since the installation of the domestic terminal. It's filled a lot in the part of the country I come from over in Jutland. This bill also gives the Ministry the opportunity to regulate it, so there is proper service for passengers. We can support that too. Then I think that Enhedslisten remarkably made a very good contribution to the rapporteur and said that, of course, we must continue to work on making aviation greener. It may both be to use the petrol or diesel better, it may also be to develop new forms of diesel that are more sustainable, and of course also to get invested in the Train Fund DK. Because I think it is a declaration of failure that in such a small country as Denmark you have to fly around, and that is only because it takes so long to drive by train. So I can only agree with Enhedslisten in that. But I also agree with the government that we must ensure Danish aviation, especially in and out of the country, because that is necessary for us. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162920	Thank you. There was just one brief comment, Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162925	Well, thank you to the radical rapporteur for a good speech. Sir. Andreas Steenberg came to mention the Togfonden DK • that it is a visionary, and it must be understood that there can be a greater transfer of distance traffic to the trains if it is realized. That is why I would like to ask how the Radical Left intends to finance the so-called second phase of the Train Fund, where there is a 14-15 billion missing. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320162953	This is what we have proposed to take from another conciliation procedure: better and cheaper public transport, where there is 0.5 billion. kr. a year, as long as you want. We will simply take the money from there over a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163008	That's 0.5 billion. kr. In other words, we have to understand that this is the way things are going. 30 years before the Train Fund DK can be realized. It is a little long to wait for those people who have already been frightened by some lines on the map down through East Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163022	The Danish Railway Fund has always been a settlement until 2042 where money is taken from the oil tax until 2042 and if they were taken during the same period from what is called "Better and Cheaper' public transport, there would be plenty of money to finance what is missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163037	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163056	I can announce that the Conservative People's Party intends to support the bill. After all, it is a legislative proposal which gives the Minister the power to impose certain requirements on Danish airports, and that comes, among other things. to apply to Copenhagen Airport, which is so important for the Danish economy, not only in the capital, but throughout the country. It is our lifeline to the rest of the world, and it is very important that it works as well as possible. I think that in my young days I might have thought that it was very bourgeois that we were going to regulate some private operators and that the market itself should find a way of ensuring that things worked, but there is, of course, a monopoly here, and there are good economic reasons why we need to make some regulation, because it is not certain that the monopoly is exposed to enough competition to ensure that there is sufficient capacity of its own and that the service is good enough. So it is not certain that market forces operate in the way that market forces otherwise do so well in all other sectors when it comes to aviation and an airport monopoly. There society can get richer by making good regulation. This may be difficult, and there is therefore an important task for the Minister to ensure that good regulation and not bad regulation are made, but a certain amount of regulation is needed to ensure that the airport develops as well as possible, that the capacity is provided and that security controls and other elements at the airport work, rather than just becoming a place where you can squeeze money out of passengers and draw it to Australia or elsewhere. So we're positive about the bill. We hope that the Minister will use the powers here to ensure a very good aviation and a very positive development of our airports.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163254	Thank you. One brief comment came from Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163300	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. As the flight increases, the climate load increases. Does the rapporteur have any indication as to how we respond to the increased climate impact?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163316	We have a lot of ideas about how to combat climate pollution. We are also very concerned that we are doing this and that we are holding CO2 but the more we are in favour of having CO2 It is simply not economically justifiable to combat the fact that we have a good airport in Copenhagen, which is so crucial to Denmark's economy. It is absolutely true that aviation is a heavy load CO2 We must, of course, fight CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163411	Does the questioner want another question?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163415	Yes, please. I did not see the rapporteur reply. The rapporteur was told something about CO2 and, secondly, there is again an economic incentive which would then say that it was okay. So I would like to ask the answer again. What proposals does the rapporteur have to make to increase CO2 Are there any qualified bids?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163454	Well, then, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen asks more precisely because Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen asked if we had any suggestions on how to reduce CO2 It is a very precise answer to a question that was asked. When you ask what offers we have, it is another question, and I am happy to answer that. The answer is that we are in favour of using the quota system. And then I can mention as one thing that we are looking forward very much to the forthcoming energy agreement, which will soon be made here in the Danish Parliament, which is very important for CO2 otherwise I do not think I can mention any more within the 30 seconds I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163530	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163540	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their good comments. The bill we are discussing today aims to strengthen the basis for establishing more routes and more daily departures to and from Denmark and internally in Denmark. This increases Denmark's national and international accessibility for the benefit of economic growth, employment and cohesion between parts of the country. The draft law proposes the implementation of a number of concrete initiatives which stem from the Government's aviation strategy and require the adjustment of applicable rules in the aviation law. Specific initiatives proposed to be implemented include service targets for waiting times in security controls to avoid long and unpredictable waiting times; obligation to provide information so that the Road, Building and Housing Board can better monitor that airport charges comply with the EU rules' requirement to be cost-related; possibility of post-regulation of airport charges if the estimated revenues and costs of an aerodrome are found to be not equivalent to those calculated when setting the tariffs at the end of a tariff period. All of this would not, in my opinion, be necessary if Copenhagen Airport were not to become a State-supported monopoly, and it is, of course, Copenhagen Airport. Several people have mentioned the fact that the airport is a monopoly, and it is also true that it is a regional monopoly when it comes to taking flights and sending planes. I am not really so nervous about monopolies in themselves, but I am nervous about the monopolies that are protected by the state against competition, and that is Copenhagen Airport, and that is airports in general. And there are natural reasons for that, but the state cannot accept that every company establishes a new airport anywhere in Denmark. There are simply too many nuisances associated with airports of a noise, environmental nature, aviation safety. All this means that there is a very strict regulation which means that Copenhagen Airport will never, no matter how badly the airport treats customers and airlines, face competition from a new airport that may arise. And that's what makes this monopoly suitable and it's absolutely necessary that we regulate it, because there won't be competitors if the monopoly behaves badly. This is what this bill expresses, and that is why it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163838	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163855	We'll open with mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320163919	Thank you for that, President. It is quite right, as has been said, that this is a legislative proposal, L 184, which we now have to deal with, the aim of which is to ensure that we can better comply with the rules on an otherwise broad desire in this Parliament for stronger efforts in the field of money laundering among financial undertakings. The bill is among other things: expressing the implementation of the agreement we made here in 2017, which was about strengthened efforts in the field of money laundering in the financial sector. That is why the Social Democrats' position on the bill is also very clear: we can support the bill. Just to read the proposal very quickly, the requirements for managers in the financial sector are being tightened up so as to create a legal basis for taking action against money launderers and senior employees who fail to meet any responsibilities they may have in the financial sector. It is the so-called fit and proprietary rules that are rules of integrity and suitability in the financial sector. The draft law then allows for the possibility of depriving these employees of their tasks in the financial sector. It also provides for the possibility of involving financial undertakings, in the strictest possible way, in the authorisation of financial undertakings to engage in real financial activities. Then the bill goes beyond a number of other things, among others. also reinforced requirements for the re-use of collateral in relation to investments. It aims to strengthen the transparency and stability of the financial market and also within financial undertakings. The FSA will also gain increased powers with the bill. The Social Democrats also think that this is quite reasonable. This concerns, among other things, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. requirements for notification to the FSA for external auditors that detect worrying issues in a financial undertaking. Among other things: The FSA will also now have the opportunity to intervene in the past with regard to what is in the bill is defined as needy companies. Now we must be able to take action against companies that are described as expected to be in need earlier than normal and existing today. All in all, an excellent legislative proposal, which is the expression of a large, broad agreement that we have made here in the Danish Parliament, on stronger efforts towards money laundering in the financial sector. This is supported by the Social Democrats, and I should say by the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr. Martin Lidegaard, that the Radical Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164212	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164215	Thank you. This is a very comprehensive proposal, and the question of money laundering is, in fact, only a small corner of it. One of the other major elements is the regulation of the mortgage sector, the solvency requirements in the mortgage sector, and I have to say that when I read the National Bank's consultation response, there are some alarm bells ringing a little. They write, among other things.: The maintenance of a non-risk-based approach to the credit institution's recapitalisation is contrary to the development of risk management over many years and against the Danish approach... It provides incentives to increase risk-taking and thus increases the risk that the State must step in and guarantee mortgage banks in a situation where the economy is already under pressure. What does the Social Democratic Party think about the quite critical consultation response of the National Bank in relation to the solvency requirements of Danish mortgage institutions and that they are ignored?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164315	We don't think we do. We think, moreover, that in a number of contexts we are discussing what should happen to the mortgage and the future of the mortgage. Sir. Pelle Dragsted himself has been extremely involved in the issue of Nykredit, where it has been very much about the issue of stock exchange listing or not, and where a model of pension funds has been found that was in place to ensure the stability of Nykredit in the future. We do not think that this is something which, apart from what has been commented on by the Ministry, should give rise to any concern. We think it seems quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164351	However, ten years after the financial crisis, where taxpayers came to face with a very, very large bill, because there was insufficient capitalisation in the Danish financial sector, should there then not be a complicated question, and I know this is a complicated question about what we are calling for the mortgage, and in the end that capitalisation should be taken from contributions rates, unless one could put down one's dividend payments for all of us here just a warning bell ringing when the National Bank, which after all has the role of financial watchdog, says that this is not good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164431	Yes, of course. We are following it all the time, and I myself have been involved in this, and I do not know how many bank packages in this area, and I think it is gratifying that Enhedslisten is so concerned about what they are doing, and I also hope that there will be broad support for what I think we are going to do in the future in this area. We keep following it closely. I do not think there is any reason for us to do anything extraordinary here. If you look at what we have actually done in recent years, I think, too, sir. Pelle Dragsted will agree that a lot has been done. New legislation has been put into the sea, even so much so that someone who, incidentally, has perhaps initially been a little sceptical about this legislation seems to think that it is really too much now. Social democracy does not think so, I should say, and we can easily discuss whether there is a need for further tightening up in order to ensure the stability of the financial sector. It is true that one of the places where we have then taken hold and that is part of this bill is in the field of money laundering, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted points out where things can now be seen that it is not exactly stability that comes out of this area if it is allowed to run out of control. That is why we think it is a very sensible legislative proposal and that that part is being tightened up too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164543	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320164554	If you look at the Minister for Industry's written submission of this bill, you will see that in the introduction of the bill it says that it is implementing a number of changes in the financial field, among others. in the context of reinforced anti-laundering measures, etc. There is nothing awkward in that sentence, but I would say that the abbreviations include, among other things. and m.v. is quite characteristic of what this bill contains. Because there are other elements than just the same thing about money laundering in this bill, as was also stated in the Enhedslisten's question to Mr. Morten Bødskov. If you were a Fisheries rapporteur, you would probably say that it is all good from the sea. At least a large number of different sub-initiatives are included in the legislative proposal. However, it should not change the fact that the Danish People's Party is in favour of all the elements contained in the bill. We think it is a good thing that we are improving the ability of the FSA to intervene against companies that, in serious or repeated cases, go in and violate the money laundering law and the new agreements that we have also made in both the tax and business fields in relation to increased money laundering registration. Fitness and integrity were the demands of Mr. Morten Bødskov mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, and it is quite reasonable, as it were, that we should have greater demands on directors in this type of company in the financial sector. It is also an element that I think makes good sense and is common sense. Then some new types of alternative investment funds are added up, and it is of course good that we have an equal position between the Danish part of the industry and the foreign, so that the competition will take place on an operationally more equal basis. We in the Danish People's Party welcome this. With regard to the debt buffer for systemicly important groups and mortgage institutions, it is proposed that this should also be changed. This was also the subject of a little debate just now, when it was discussed, whether it is sensible or wise, or whether it is both. And there I would say that the Danish People's Party is actually in favour of it, given that if we do not do what we do with this part of the bill, it would be unfavorable for the credibility that we all have an interest in there, in that our credit institutions can at any time both make adequate provisions and manage crisis situations in connection with losses. As the draft law also says, there must be credible resolution plans in relation to individual financial institutions, and investors must have a great deal of confidence in them. This must ensure that we also have a high demand for, for example, the United Kingdom. Danish bonds, and this has a clear impact on which interest rates the individual bonds end up with when it is similar to the individual borrowers. So the Danish People's Party thinks this is a very sensible proposal and we can support it. I would like to conclude by saying that if you look at the consultation answers in relation to the money laundering area, perhaps I think that the Minister of Industry should put his people in the department or others to respond a little to the concerns that come from Finance Denmark when it is pointed out here that the bill envisages that there will actually be a difference in practice in relation to when the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority can withdraw a company's authorisation or withdraw a registration or not. I think it is important that we clarify this. At any rate, I am in favour of our having a similar practice and not a different practice. But that must depend on the legal procedure that is now in place in relation to both the second and third readings of the proposal. However, as I said, we can support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320165012	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320165022	Thank you. This is a major legislative proposal we are dealing with, but the starting point, as has been mentioned, is that we are implementing elements of the broad political agreement on strengthened anti-money laundering action that we entered into in the financial conciliation group back in June last year. And then there are a number of changes in financial legislation due to EU regulation in this area and a lot more. I do not think time will allow me to go through them all, and the key points have of course been mentioned, but I would nevertheless like to highlight the most important points. For money laundering is something that takes up a lot, and it is important that we take effective action against money laundering and are able to counter it. That's why there's one of them. an enhanced management responsibility of money and mortgage institutions in the field of money laundering and also an effort to ensure that, where there is a possible non-compliance, it will be included in the suitability and integrity assessment of the members of the Executive Board. This also means that in future, the FSA will have the option of requiring an undertaking to sell the money laundering controller if he or she fails to comply with the requirements in this area. In connection with the consultation responses, there has been a discussion about whether it is the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority that dismisses people. No, that's the job you're taken away from, but you can still be away from the company in question. In particularly serious or repeated cases where the money laundering law is violated, the FSA also has the possibility to withdraw the company's authorisation. This will, of course, be the ultimate intervention, but very serious acts and repeated violations of the Laundering Act will also have to be carried out. Furthermore, there are a number of initiatives to basically ensure robust and effective resolution planning and management of failing institutions if we were to return to such a situation. This implies, inter alia, that the level of the debt buffer is changed to ensure that the sum of capital requirements, debt buffer requirements and network requirements is at least 8%. of the total liabilities of the systemicly important financial groups and mortgage institutions. This should help to demonstrate that there is a high level of trust in companies, financial institutions and mortgage institutions in Denmark. We all need this, and we benefit greatly from this, both private consumers and companies, because it helps to ensure that financial services can be provided at a competitive price. It is crucial that there is confidence in the financial actors in the market. A new creditor class is also introduced into the bankruptcy hierarchy and this makes sense as it can provide greater clarity on the location of debt instruments and contribute to a more accurate pricing for the benefit of institutions and investors. It is also implemented with this proposal. Then there is the implementation of further EU regulation. In addition to the creditor class, there is a change in the limit on when a prospectus should be notified to the FSA, where we raise the limit from 5 million. kr. EUR 8 million; kr. And there are even more elements. For example: We are creating better competition in creating opportunities for new investment classes where we have a small gap in the market because we have not had the rules that exist in our neighbouring countries. It also makes good sense, of course, for us to guarantee those opportunities at home so that competition and choice for consumers can become even greater. So the bottom line is that we have a wide range of different elements that are basically about strengthening confidence in the financial sector, creating greater clarity and strengthening the fight against money laundering. This makes very good sense, and that is why we in the Left support all the elements of the bill. And I have promised to greet the Liberal Alliance and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320165443	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then we move on to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320165452	Thank you very much. This is, of course, one of these so-called pile proposals that we, unfortunately, often deal with in the financial field. That's about. 500 pages of heavy financial business law. These are a number of complex changes to already complicated legislation. It is being presented as a question of changing the rules on money laundering, but the part dealing with money laundering is only a tiny corner of a very comprehensive proposal. If we are to take a more fundamental view of this, we may well ask whether the whole of this regulation, which is necessary in the financial field, raises the question of whether leaving this area entirely to private individuals in freely motivated companies is the right solution for our financial sector. But it will probably go too far to raise that discussion today. Given the scope of the proposal, it is quite impossible to deal with the various parts of it, so I will mention what I think is good and what I think is less good. What constitutes clear progress in this proposal is the part that concerns money laundering. These are some good tightenings and measures that are being introduced there to stem some of the abuses that have taken place in the financial sector, where it can be said that the confidence of the people and the authorities has been broken. There are some opportunities to detect and intervene in the field of money laundering, which is clear progress. This is, of course, the implementation of an agreement which, unfortunately, the Enhedslisten is not part of, which we would very much have liked to have been included in and also asked to be part of, but so far without success. But as I said, it's only a tiny part of this big, massive bill. There are a number of other elements in it that we are more concerned about. This applies, among other things, to: the setting of the limit on prospectus requirements so that, in several cases, a prospectus can not be drawn up. This is something that puts investors and others in a more uncertain situation. Then we are also concerned about the establishment of these new alternative investment funds, which, as I read the bill, are less regulated and where the FSA has less insight. I don't mean "and Enhedslisten" doesn't mean we need any more wildness in the financial sector. On the contrary, there are plenty of opportunities and bends that you can make when you have to invest your money, and establishing new forms will just make this whole area an even bigger wilderness, which will be much harder for ordinary citizens to follow in, and which serves the interest of those who have an army of lawyers who can take action to place their money and thus get a higher return. These questions may be said to be more of an ideological nature, and it may be no wonder that I am addressing them as I am. However, where I could perhaps ask for a little more concern in this Chamber, not just from people with my political views, the question of the regulation of mortgage credit, and this time it is not about ownership or anything else. This is simply about the fact that the mortgage will still be exempt from the solvency requirements of other parts of the financial sector. We ourselves, in the Enhedslisten, have originally supported this with the exclusion of the mortgage from the same regulation, but I have to say that, as the huge payments of dividends that we are currently seeing from the banks that own the vast majority of mortgage banks, it will therefore be difficult for me to maintain the idea that there should be no money to capitalise the mortgage better without affecting the customers. There is room for this, and I think it must be a matter of concern when we see the National Bank with such a critical consultation response as there is here and which very, very clearly says that the solvency requirements that are being imposed here are not good enough, that they will mean, if we get into a crisis, that we may again risk the taxpayers being put on the tab. They will encourage more risk-based behaviour in the mortgage-backed groups. And when I read the consultation note, I simply do not think that the Minister and the government fully answer the criticism made by the National Bank. So we're going to be ready to vote no to this proposal. If it could be split up, so the part about money laundering stood for itself, it was a different matter, but with this type of pile proposal it's unfortunately not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320170023	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320170046	As several of my colleagues have mentioned, there are many, many different elements in L 184 ■ the draft law we are discussing today. Let me start with the positive, namely the part of the bill which deals with money laundering we support. There are clear improvements, and this includes, among other things, improvements. FSA's ability to intervene more effectively in the field of money laundering. This is a vision we have had for a long time and we have also made an agreement with the government on which we think is good. Unfortunately, this is also an area that is being discussed very much right now, because we have a large Danish bank in an extensive case of suspected money laundering, which continues to roll and which we have not heard the last of yet. I also hope that, with this bill, we will improve the scope for action of the FSA at another time, when it is more appropriate, precisely discuss the role and opportunities of the FSA and its ability to intervene in the field of money laundering. But we must take that discussion at a different time. Another element of the bill is the prospectus regulation. Like my colleague Mr. Pelle Dragsted, I'm also very critical of it. We have seen a very large Danish company, which fell to the ground with a bang after speculating on oil prices and which had submitted a prospectus which was to put it mildly manipulative and misleading; but because one does not comply with the rules that one should give rightful information, that is not a reason to relax the requirements or remove them completely. In relation to debt buffers and systemically important financial institutions, we have the same problem as Enhedslisten. For many years we have cultivated this romantic story about Danish mortgage loans as something special Danish, and as that which for 200 years has allowed ordinary Danes to get cheap loans. It is a sector which, until 1989 at least, was particularly cut off from the rest of the financial system. There we have seen in recent years how it has been used to a large extent as a dairy cow for those banks that very much own many of the mortgage banks. Therefore, the clear division between the mortgage sector and the rest of the financial sector is largely non-existent. That is why it is also and that is actually what I heard Mr. Pelle Dragsted say time to discuss whether we should continue to cultivate this romantic notion of mortgage as something special and as something special, when it has so much become an integral part of financial supermarkets, and when we can see that a large part of the profits coming from mortgage institutions are channelled to banks and paid as dividends to shareholders. We have seen that some of the country's largest banks have record profits and that they pay record dividends, partly financed by the profit generated within mortgage banks. That's why this division doesn't make sense anymore. It makes an impression when the National Bank warns in such strong terms of lack of upholstery and some special requirements for mortgage loans, which may not make much sense anymore when we see how closely bound they are with the rest of the financial sector. I think that there are so many unanswered questions that we need to discuss in committee because this is so vast and so I would like to put a lot of written questions to the Minister. However, our immediate position is that all we can say for sure now is that we clearly support the money laundering component. It is also usually the case that when there are parties that have a strong desire to split a bill, which is a pile of legislation, it is also respected because we can then at least have the opportunity to vote in favour of a legislative proposal which translates into an agreement that we ourselves are involved in and which we are pleased about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320170550	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320170559	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing now contains, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, a number of elements in the financial field, among others. combating money laundering and terrorist financing. And to start with the last, in other words money laundering and terrorist financing, one part of the legislative proposal, as several have also mentioned, is implementing the agreement on strengthened anti-money laundering in the financial sector that we made here in the conciliation group last summer. The initiatives that we are now implementing following the agreement concern the increased application of the requirement of suitability and integrity and the possibility, in particularly serious cases, of including the authorisation of financial undertakings to operate as well as increased management responsibility for the bank's management. The Conservative People's Party is, of course, part of the agreement on strengthened anti-laundering measures, which is why we naturally also support the initiatives proposed in the legislative proposal. We must combat whitewashing and terrorist financing, and we must do our utmost to ensure that Danish financial companies have a strong focus on avoiding being used or abused for money laundering or other crime. The Conservative People's Party supports tightening the rules in this area, as we do with this bill, just as we have tightened the legislation in the past. The financial sector has already signed up to monitoring illegal transactions, so that there are now well over 1,000 years' work in the Danish financial sector, which is engaged in precisely combating money laundering and other forms of financial crime. And we take this as a sign that the fight against money laundering is something you take very, very seriously in the industry. This is a sign that the political signals that we have sent out and the tightening of the legislation that we have made have had a great impact. In addition to the anti-laundering measures, the draft law also contains a number of initiatives aimed at ensuring that the financial sector becomes more robust in a situation where, for example, the financial sector becomes more robust. a crisis was to occur. And those initiatives have also been carefully explained by the previous rapporteurs, so I would just like to say from there that we can support them. Then there is also a proposal for prospectuses proposing to raise the limit from the current 5 million. EUR 8 million EUR, in relation to when a prospectus is to be notified to the FSA. I think that is very sensible, because everything else makes it easier for companies to raise capital if they are small transactions, and we think it would be sensible to make the rules more flexible in this area. So, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320170843	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320170846	It's kind of the same question as before. After all, I know Conservatives as a party which, to such an extent, has a respect for the social institutions that have been put into the world for, among other things. to ensure that we too, as politicians, do not make wrong decisions. And that is why I would just like to ask whether it is not a matter of concern to the rapporteur for Conservatives that the National Bank is so critical in its response to the consultation. In view of the fact that this legislation does not go in enough to ensure that Danish mortgage banks, which form part of these financial supermarkets, in other words in larger groups together with banks, are not upholstered well enough and that the way they are asked to upholster themselves is not risk-dependent and can thus encourage risky behaviour. Is that not something that impresses the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320170943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320170944	No, it's not. Of course, I respect the fact that the National Bank can have a position on solvency in the Danish mortgage system. But I think basically that we have a really solid sector in Denmark. In the years of crisis we saw how the Danish mortgage market actually did very well, and that is a sign that even when the crisis is scratching, we have a sector that is relatively well upholstered. That is why I am confident that it is sufficient. We must also bear in mind that if we go in and implement stricter requirements for upholstery, everything else just means that it will be more expensive to be a customer in mortgage banks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171024	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171026	It doesn't have to. After all, the dividends paid in recent years are not dividends needed to attract investors. So, of course, you could upholster yourself if the demands were made, just as you can do with the countercyclical capital buffer, which is on the way, and I would also like to commend the government for this in relation to the financial institutions. Conservatives, however, also helped to implement a large number of financial sector deregulations up to the financial crisis, which, after all, was criticised for having contributed to the crisis. And then it is a little nonchalant to say that you do not listen to the State watchdog and that it does not matter to the rapporteur. In other words, should not the history of the rapporteur's own party also be used to build up the crisis that last happened to be a little more cautious?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171118	As I said in my first answer, of course I have respect for the fact that there is a position in the National Bank on this. You can have an opinion on that. But I just think that experience shows that the Danish mortgage market has always been really, really solid, and it is really solid. And even in the years of crisis it was still gone solid and did really well, and it has really high ratings around. So if you put into practice what the National Bank is proposing, it will only be more expensive to be a mortgage customer in Denmark. That is my clear conviction, and then you can talk about dividends and everything else, but it costs everything else equal money to make capital available; then you just want to demand more money into contributions rates. And I don't think you should. This is certainly not something we have any interest in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171205	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171207	Thank you. I would like to pursue this a little, because does the rapporteur not agree that mortgage bonds are something that should not have a high return requirement in line with more risky investments? It is one but now it was stuffed into the same discussion in line with everything else. Danske Bank has just held a general meeting and has a return of 13.6 per cent. Is that not what would normally be called supernormal profit when some of it is profit that has come from the mortgage and that is passed over the bank to the shareholders? The second is that we could just live up to what the National Bank is proposing by simply not taking all the profits generated in the mortgage sector and paid to shareholders?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171311	I think the questioner is mixing things up a little. For Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says you get 13%. in return on mortgage bonds. That's just not right. You get that on the equity you make available as a financial institution without me knowing the exact figure. But, of course, everything else will be equal, as opposed to foreign financing, to require a higher return on equity financing made available as equity financing. Then Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen asked whether I think the interest rate is appropriate on the Danish mortgage bonds. Well, I think the market should decide that. It is a market that determines the interest rate, and the safer the market we have, the better the market is structured, put together, the better the interest rate will be paid to Danish home owners when they have to take up mortgages. In fact, I think we have a very good balance at the moment, and I would be very sorry if we had to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171407	I think we'll talk a little bit past each other. I didn't say there should be 13.6%. on mortgage loans. I say that this is what the shareholders are going to expect from a profit which, among other things, is. is generated from the mortgage sector... some of the most secure that we have. Then the National Bank says: To be absolutely sure of solvency, it will only require part of the profit generated by the landowners that it will not be transferred one to one to the shareholders, but that some of it will be taken to ensure some solvency levels which the National Bank seems to be more secure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171452	Now is the fourth time I have the same question. On the whole, I am of the opinion that we should allow the market to decide how interest rates are to be set. If we go in and change it and do as the National Bank says here, then everything else will just become more expensive to be a homeowner. Then the rates of contributions will increase because there will be a demand that the money that you make available to the market should have a return on. So no matter how you turn it around here: if you follow those recommendations, it will be more expensive to be a homeowner, and I have no interest in that. When, at the same time, we see that even in the hardest years of crisis we had in the '00s, the Danish mortgage bonds did very well, then I simply see no reason why we need to change the capital requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171537	We thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have reached the Minister and that is why we can give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171548	Thank you for your comments and for your general welcome of the proposal. The draft law implements a number of initiatives with one objective: to support confidence in financial undertakings and the financial system as such, as well as robust financial markets. When you read the consultation answers that way, I think you can see that there is general positive support for the proposals from the sector, and I think that is of course positive. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from Dansk Folkeparti mentions Finance Denmark's consultation answer about similar practices across financial legislation. I think it is a relevant input from the DF rapporteur. That is why we have also taken into account Financial Denmark's consultation response. We have addressed the bill so that there is a consistent practice as to when the FSA can withdraw a registration or withdraw an authorisation if the money laundering regulation is violated. There are two areas in particular that I would like to highlight: money laundering and crisis management of money and mortgage institutions. With the bill, we translate parts of our agreement into the financial conciliation circle on strengthened anti-laundering measures, etc. The management responsibility of Danish financial institutions in relation to the money laundering area is proposed more stringently to ensure and encourage the necessary focus in this area. Thus, non-compliance with the rules in the field of money laundering must henceforth be part of the suitability and integrity assessment of directors of financial undertakings. In addition, the application of the suitability and integrity requirements is proposed to be extended to the money laundering controller in institutions. This ensures that he/she is responsible for his/her position and that the FSA may require undertakings to sell the money laundering controller if he/she fails to meet the requirements. It is also proposed that, in the event of particularly serious infringements of the law on money laundering, the FSA should be given the opportunity to withdraw its authorisation. Examples of particularly serious infringements include the failure to monitor customers who present a particular risk, or the deliberate or gross negligence to obtain information about customers. In addition, the draft law contains certain initiatives to ensure robust and effective resolution planning and management of failing institutions. The draft law includes, inter alia: a change in the level of the debt buffer to ensure that the sum of the capital requirements of systemicly important financial groups or mortgage institutions, debt buffer requirements and the consolidated requirement for eligible liabilities is always at least 8% of what we call the NEP requirement. of total liabilities. The change will help to underpin confidence in the systemically important groups and mortgage institutions in Denmark. In addition, the draft law introduces a new creditor class into the bankruptcy hierarchy, thereby providing greater clarity on the location of certain debt instruments. The increased clarity and transparency should contribute to a more accurate pricing, including for the benefit of the institutions themselves and investors in addition. It follows from EU regulation and is also a wish of the sector. Finally, the draft law contains a number of amendments resulting from EU regulation. Among other things: the draft law implements the necessary amendments resulting from the prospectus regulation, by which the threshold for notification of a prospectus to the FSA is changed from 5 million. EUR 8 million or more; euro. This facilitates the administrative burden on business in the context of the offer of transferable securities. In those words, I look forward to the further examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320171957	Thank you very much, Minister. There is a brief comment. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172001	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's statement. It concerns this question, which I have raised several times, about the highly critical consultation response of the National Bank to the draft law here, I think. When I read the government's consultation note, I do not really think that a full answer is given to what is being said. For what the National Bank writes is that they believe that what they call maintaining a non-risk-based approach to the mortgage banks' recapitalisation is contrary to the development of risk management over many years and to the Danish approach to financial regulation, which is otherwise presented in international fora. It provides incentives to increase risk taking and thus increases the risk that the State will have to step in and guarantee mortgage banks in a situation where the economy is already under pressure. This means that it will not be possible to draw up credible resolution plans for mortgage credit institutions. A risk-based requirement would mean that mortgage credit institutions, which generally provide very unsafe loans, would have to meet lower requirements than financial institutions, where the loan is not similarly uncertain, etc. etc. As I read it, it's a raised index finger you get. What's the government's response to that criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172116	I think the questioner here has misunderstood the draft law, because this is not, of course, as the questioner mentioned in some of the other questions to a few of the rapporteurs, a question of solvency requirements. This has nothing to do with solvency requirements. What is proposed in the draft law is that the debt buffer, which is of course relevant in a settlement situation, can be increased in order to ensure credible resolution planning and therefore also confidence in the mortgage. So what the proposal here is about is a debt buffer, and it has nothing to do with solvency requirements, and there it is important that the debt buffer is of course large and robust enough, so that there is confidence in the Institute also afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172201	As I understand what I have read, both the proposal and the consultation answer, it is a question of obtaining an exception to the NEP requirement for mortgage credit institutions, which was maintained, and instead of introducing a debt buffer which would then change and actually tighten slightly, and this proposal is positive. But what the National Bank is saying is that the right thing to do was to remove the exemption from the NEP requirements for mortgage credit institutions. It has also been shown in the past in a study that it will not burden customers with anything that is any problem, and after recent profit payments one might think that it should be possible to afford it without burdening customers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172245-2	Once again, I think we are getting a little mixed up, because the fact that the institutions have made a lot of money has nothing to do with the fact that we are now making a debt buffer requirement which is quite robust, because they have to comply with that, whether they have earned money or not, and there is the attitude of this proposal, which represents the government's position, that this ensures a robust and effective settlement planning for what we call SIFIs, and it is also the mortgage institutions that are SIFIs. And it is clear to me that these requirements are sufficient to ensure this, and they also take account of the actual risks, and they also run away with the minimum requirements laid down by the Single European Resolution Authority, SAB, as minimum requirements. So they run with what's going on around Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172335	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172338	Thank you, sir. President. After all, this is a rather complicated legislative proposal which contains quite a variety of elements. Of course, we sometimes recognise that as well, because otherwise we would have a lot of legislative proposals in this Chamber. However, I always try to take note of some of the comments made by those who give the hearings. In fact, only 21 out of 121 of those entitled to a hearing have bothered to give a hearing in relation to it. Of course, in relation to investment funds, I hope that the Minister has not put in more different things than it is possible to answer. Finance Denmark says among other things: in their response to the consultation: "Finans Danmark therefore proposes to use the term "AIF Securities Fund' so that the AIF designation is integrated into the name, thereby clarifying that it is an AIF and not an UCITS. Similarly, it is proposed that "AIF-VK" should be designated "AIF-SIKAV". It was just one of the 500 pages. As I understand from the Minister's comments on the wish of one of the parties to the hearing, it is chosen to do so. There I would like to hear from the Minister whether this is something that the Minister can further argue about why it has been decided to do completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172511	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172513	I mentioned this to the rapporteur, also to agree with the rapporteur in pointing out the things that Finance Denmark has mentioned. And that's why we've addressed the bill so that there's a consistent practice as to when the FSA can withdraw this registration or withdraw a permit if you violate the laundering provision. And that, like what was the answer, is also to the comment made by Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Hans Kristian Skibby in connection with his rapporteur's speech. If there are other questions and comments, including in relation to the hearing, we can easily take them during the discussion in committee, because my task is also on behalf of the Folketing to listen if there are any relevant objections. Then we will have to deal with them during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172605	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172607	Thank you. The question I raised here was not in line with the second one that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. It was thus another concern that had come from Finance Denmark, so it has nothing to do with this part of the bill. I just feel the urge to illustrate that when we sit as lay judges in this House and have to go through a 500-page bill and we very much want to try to take these answers fairly seriously, we can sometimes get a little confused. I think the Minister may also be able to do so if I am to be completely honest. That is just why I am asking a little bit about the Minister's reasons for having chosen to comply with this particular proposal, which has come from Finance Denmark, but of course we can ask for it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172654	It is clear that such a large legislative proposal as this, which contains many different elements, will of course have different views. The main element of it in relation to the mortgage and the debt buffer is of course to take on and feel. You can argue if that's enough. We think it is. I would very much like to discuss the other individual elements of the committee's proceedings, also in relation to the consultation answers that have been received. Of course I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172727	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172754	The first in the line to speak here is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320172813	Thank you. All children deserve a good start to life, which is why our day institutions are one of the most important foundations of the welfare society. In the Social Democratic Party we are pleased that last year we managed to reach a broad agreement on our day offer. It is important to have broad political support for the institutions that provide the framework for such large parts of our children's lives. The agreement is based on a children's view where children are allowed to be children without losing focus on how important the first years of your child's life are. Therefore, we are also very pleased with the new educational curriculum, which gives the day offers a strong framework to work within and a good start to give the children a good everyday life. We are pleased that the actors have been so involved in the development of the new curriculum, and this is absolutely crucial for the achievement of the great ambitions. For the Social Democratic Party, it is absolutely crucial that there is more time and profit for the most important thing in our day-to-day offer, namely the children. This requires that we do away with retail management and give managers and employees more freedom. Debureaucratisation is always talked about a lot, but it is often difficult to put action behind words, but with this agreement we have therefore moved on to a new path. We state quite clearly that this is the educational curriculum by which the day offers must organise their work and comply with neither more nor less. This means not only that previous objectives and concepts are replaced by the new learning plan, but also that administrations around the world cannot begin to impose everything else on the institutions. As far as I know, this is the first time we have written not only what municipalities should, but also what they should not, in this type of legislation. Whether this is really the case, we intend to follow very closely. When we talk about more time for children, we also do not avoid the fact that the number of hands obviously plays a role. In many places the institutions are under pressure, not least because the government's economic policy is based on under-financing of municipal welfare. We will not solve this problem by means of this agreement, but we will nevertheless acknowledge that the government chooses to translate a large part of the funds allocated to social norms. Extra educators for the most vulnerable children are the right place to give priority if we want to put an end to social inequality and give all children a fair chance. The new law also contains a number of new elements which we welcome. This is true in relation to the requirements of private day-to-day services, which must largely meet the expectations we also have of the public services, and attempts are being made to ensure more flexibility for the country's families of children, including the possibility of part-time places for parents on maternity leave and combination offers for parents with unequal working hours. We are, of course, very concerned that all people, regardless of their jobs, can make both family and working life go up, and that is why we are also excited to see how the new opportunities will work in practice. Overall, today we have a good proposal for a new day-off law, which the Social Democratic Party naturally supports. Several steps are being taken in the right direction, but this does not change the fact that there is still much to be desired, especially in relation to the most vulnerable children and the government's economic policy, which makes it very difficult to secure enough hands and time in the country's day care institutions. Finally, let me mention in a small parenthesis that we have an outstanding one. Being a day care provider must be a protected title, and we will unfold that during the committee work that follows. Parents must be assured that they have their children cared for by skilled staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320173224	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320173235	Thank you for that, President. It is a great pleasure for me to be here today. I have simply looked forward very much to the first reading of this proposal, L 160, and I am probably not the only one who has waited impatiently for this day either. The new educational curricula are expected with joy and longing out among all those who work with the children every day, and I am sure they cannot wait to get to work. Creating learning environments around children without it being constantly tied up in pillars and topics, but where it becomes more fluid, compared to what it is you have to work with, I think it will be really good for the staff. At the same time, we are bringing down the documentation requirement and making it considerably smaller, and that has clearly been a desire among the staff. One of the best things about the teaching curriculum is that the game gets a value in itself. For many years we have had a school-like approach to children today, and we are changing that a little now that we also appreciate playing and playing freely without there being any adult supervision all the time. The new educational curricula also provide a good framework for what kind of teaching to work with; it becomes more similar in all the municipalities in the country. We believe that's really healthy. During the negotiations, the Danish People's Party pointed out that the old teaching plans did not sufficiently support the 0-2-year-olds, and we have tried to decorate this by creating digital learning items that can be downloaded, which as an educator can be inspired by, as it is more targeted the 0-2-year-olds. There has been no support for a separate curriculum for the 0-2-year-olds. For the Danish People's Party, it was very, very important that some of the funds allocated went to the training of day care providers, and this was recognised in the negotiations. So now we stand here historically and can provide training for day care workers; it is not just a course which, moreover, is not recognised by the other educators. I think it is very good that we here in the Danish Parliament can recognise the good work that day care providers do every day. For the Danish People's Party, it was also very important that we had some money set aside for first aid. Normally it is a municipal task to provide first aid, but the municipalities have not been good enough to prioritize it, and that is why we have wanted the Danish Parliament to give the municipalities the signal that first aid to the teachers is something they must prioritise, and that is really, really important. We're really happy that this deal also fills out the void that can occur when a child is in an SFO, so that an SFO not only becomes a storage option, but that there actually also happens a learning out there while the child is in the SFO. Similarly, we very much welcome the fact that there must now be the same supervision of the private pass as there is in municipal day care. It has been a great wish from the private pass, and I think it is very good and important, and it also raises the quality of the private pass. On the other hand, it is very problematic that many private passes call themselves daykeepers, because they are not in the sense of the law. We will also try to change this in committee because we think it is really important that there is a clear distinction so that both parents and municipalities can distinguish between whether it is a private carer or private day care that we are dealing with. We have written into the agreement that there should be guidance on the difference, but the title day care provider does not belong with a private fit. For the Danish People's Party, it has also been very important that parents can wish for a certain provision of care and that they can retain that possibility even if they are offered something else through the care guarantee. It may be very important that you are allowed to have the same day care provider or a certain paddle hat department because older brother or sister has gone there, and we think it is really important that parents now have that opportunity. There has also been a desire that parents include: Paddle hats have the opportunity to be on a board too, and that's what we're going to get with this deal. It is of course important that parents who want to get involved in a board of directors also have the opportunity to do so. There must also be more focus on involving parents in day-to-day work, and here we think it is very good that children's holidays should also be discussed. We should remember that being in care is equivalent to going to work for us adults, and who wants to go to work every day for 3 years. I guess not many people do. You need to have a talk about that, and it may of course make sense that some children are not allowed to take a holiday, but we think it is a little important that you think about how hard it is for the children to actually be on daily offers every day. The proposal for a combination offer to parents with unequal working hours has not grown equally in the backyard of the Danish People's Party, not because we do not recognise the problem, but we have some concerns about those who are going to care for the children. Who are they? Is it someone who's good enough, or is it just a favor to give to a friend who just needs a job? We have tried to put it into the treatment, and it has also ended up in a place where we can see ourselves in it, but we are glad that it has to be evaluated, so we will certainly follow that closely. And it is essential that you speak Danish. All in all, however, it is a good day for us rapporteurs and for all our staff and, above all, for all the children who are now benefiting from all the good things that we have negotiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320173800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are still no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320173811	Thank you. It is a wonderful day today. At least I think it is fantastic that we have now reached the first reading of L 160, which will actually have to implement an agreement from last year on the strengthening of day-to-day offers. This really took its start back in the summer of 2015, when some of us thought that more money should now also be allocated to the daily offers, and that is what we are getting to grips with today at first reading. I am also very pleased that there is broad support for the proposal, because I really believe that we all feel that it is important for us here in Christiansborg to contribute to a good start to life for all children. The bill strengthens the early effort, because we know that the early years of the child's life have a huge impact on the child's future. Children need care and presence from the very young, and they need to be stimulated at an early age, and they need this to be done in a safe environment. In addition to enhancing the quality of day-to-day services, we also increase flexibility in relation to families with children with this bill, and I am very pleased about that. I have to say that I really think that most people who have children themselves also recognise that sometimes it can be difficult to make a busy day-to-day life hang together, and that is why flexible care facilities are also needed. With this bill, we also give a hand in helping some of the families of children who are struggling to make everyday life stick together. We are extending the system for what is called a combination offer, so that even parents with unequal working hours will be able to make a busy everyday life work. We are also giving parents increased freedom of choice and we are also helping with this bill to put more quality into the everyday life of daily offers. If I am going to highlight some of the things that I have fought hard for, then I would say that what I am very pleased about is that play is once again important in the day offers. One might well wonder why it has been out at some point, but fortunately we agreed that precisely play is important for children and that we should have it written again into the law. Then I have to say that something else that I also thought was important to us was that there is actually focus on exercise and movement. In these times, when we hear that a lot of people are struggling with obesity, I think it is also important in this area to put in early action with help for children and with guidance that it is a very good idea to move in everyday life. With those words, I will end by saying that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320174111	Thank you to the rapporteur, for whom there are no brief comments right now. We go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320174121	Thank you. This proposal, which we are discussing here, contains a number of different proposals, some of which can be said to have no real connection. We believe in the Enhedslisten that the proposal contains a number of very positive proposals for changes to the framework for the educational work of day-to-day offers, while, on the other hand, we are not so enthusiastic, I think I can say, because the proposal for a combination offer which is supposed to increase the number of private children's carers. Nor can we support the proposal to open up larger subsidies to private institutions. I would therefore like to say that we would have liked to have seen the draft law split into several separate proposals. With regard to changing the context of educational work, I would like to highlight the proposal for a new curriculum for teaching above all its content, but also the way in which the whole proposal has been put forward. In terms of content, I think there is reason to welcome the fact that the proposal has made what I see as quite a significant change in the direction of pedagogical thinking and rhetoric, not least in terms of day-to-day policy over a long period of time. I see it as a fact that this is actually making a clear break with the preschool and learning thinking, which has until recently been politically very dominant, in favour of a child's view which highlights childhood as a value in itself. It is very good that the importance of the game has again been strongly highlighted, as several rapporteurs have already emphasised, and that it is explicitly emphasised that there must be a clear child perspective and that the communities of children are of immense importance. In addition to the content, I also think that there is reason to highlight the working method used in drawing up the proposal for a new curriculum. As far as I can assess it at all, I have far from been involved in the whole process of the long process leading up to the proposal here, there has been a great deal of emphasis on active involvement and dialogue with the various parties in the field; not only the municipalities, as we have seen in other areas, but also the organizations of the educational staff and the parents. Time has been devoted to involving knowledge and experience from the area's practitioners, and the result has, in my opinion, been followed. It is very reassuring that the legal notes also specify that the State and the municipalities should not subsequently impose other measures such as supplementary teaching plans, objectives or concepts that go beyond the pedagogical curriculum. In addition to the proposal for a new educational curriculum, the bill contains several other changes to the law that Enhedslisten can support. This applies to the adjustment of the provision of the day-to-day provision of the law and to the changes in the provisions on parental influence. We also think it is good to introduce new requirements for the quality of teaching and the supervision of private carers, but we do not agree with the proposal that the use of private carers should be increased, as proposed in the legislative proposal. We find it regrettable that private children's carers who must be included in combination services should be exempted from the educational requirements and supervision which are otherwise generally extended over the area, and we think it would have been much better to take account of the flexibility that we agree with there should be for the sake of parents, by combining the requirement of flexibility with a proper educational quality by extending opening hours in day care institutions and municipal day care. Finally, I would like to say that we cannot support the part of the proposal which opens up an increase in subsidies to private institutions either. This is not the big move, but we are afraid that it is a small further boost to the privatisation of the area. As I mentioned at the outset, I think it would have been sensible to divide up the proposal. The comments made on the draft law show that it consists overall of two parts, one of which deals with the proposal to improve the quality of daily offers, and the other concerns flexibility. I would therefore urge the Minister to consider whether the proposal can be divided up. We can warmly support the part about the teaching quality and curriculum, and I really think that it would be very good for the many players who have contributed positively and constructively to this process if we could send out a global signal from the parties of the Folketing that we support the framework for teaching content, that we support the way in which the whole work on the teaching plan will be approached in the future. Then we could divide up the proposal, we would be very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320174652	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there are no brief comments, so we will continue to speak, and the next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320174701	Thank you. I think we all have a common ambition that we should have very good day-to-day offers in Denmark, and the proposal here gives the educational framework for day-to-day offers a review. We are trying to increase the flexibility of those parents, such as the United Kingdom. has night work, and at the same time there are some suggestions for some sensible corrections to existing legislation. For example: If the municipal council decides on a new standard for the municipality's day offer, the private suppliers will have six months to adjust. Under the current rules, private individuals alone must meet the criteria under which they have been approved. I think it makes very good sense for the municipal council to have the opportunity to decide that there is a desire for a quality increase in daily offers. And, of course, this must also apply to private suppliers. However, if these quality boosts impose financial burdens, private suppliers must also be compensated and municipal institutions compensated. I think that is quite fair, and overall, Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320174813	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320174824	Thank you. And I shall start by saying that I welcome the alternative and that I am also speaking on behalf of them. Every day almost all Danish children are delivered in day care, day nurseries or kindergarten. At the time, the daily offers were made so that the women had a place to deliver the children so that they could go to work themselves. We are still going away to work, but that is no longer the purpose of the day offers, because that is too unambitious. Today, day offers are neither storage nor care. It is an opportunity to provide a wonderful everyday life with other children. It's for the kids. Nor could we dream of saying that children just go to school because parents are at work. No, because the school is important in itself. But actually, children learn the most important things in life before they start school. The first months and years of our lives are the most crucial. That is why it is time for us to recognise day-to-day offers on a par with school. Childhood and good children's life are of value in themselves. The children must have their own law; that is the most important thing we do with today's bill. Radical Left would have liked the parties to have been even more ambitious in relation to some economy and that the area had been given even more money. We have done so in our draft budget, but although that is not what we are doing here today, there is a great deal of reason to welcome the legislative proposal that we are now dealing with first. One of the changes which the radical rapporteur, Mr Lotte Rod, who took part in the negotiations last summer, has fought a great deal for is the change in the paragraph of purpose, that is to say the basic wording on which everything else in the law is based, and here it was added, and I quote: "In order to stress the importance of play and the value of childhood in itself, where, among other things, it is understood that the child's life here and now is of central importance, it is proposed to include in the provision for daily offers that the game is fundamental and that a child's perspective should be taken into account. ▪ The game is thus written in as something fundamental. I do not think it is very many places in the world, and we can be proud of that, and I think there are a lot of countries that will look towards Denmark when they are going to develop their offers to children in the future. Finally, I think it is worth highlighting the way in which we have worked to come up with this bill. The close and confidential cooperation between educational research, the relevant trade unions, management representatives, municipalities, politicians and other professional professionals has simply been exemplary, and this should be the way in which all major reforms and changes were made. Because when you sit together in a room with so many different special interests and have to agree, there is really only one that binds us together, and that is the children. Everyone as one is focused on children, and that is why they automatically become the most important when we exchange views, and I think that is one of the reasons why this bill has become so good. So, although we on the part of Radicals would have liked to have seen more money given to the day-off area and had done so on this occasion, we would still like to thank the Minister and the other parties to the agreement for a really good cooperation and for the fact that today we have a very good day-off law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320175206	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue to speak, and the next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320175216	Thank you. SF's child rapporteur is prevented from meeting in the Chamber today, and I therefore have to explain the SF's position on the bill. We are pleased with the strengthened educational curriculum because we believe that it will increase the quality of our day-to-day services. In fact, the strengthened curriculum is a textbook example of a good political process in which experts and professionals come together and agree on a basis to make everyday life better for a group of people in this case the children. We would therefore like to pay tribute to both the former Minister and the current Minister, who has involved the sector and listened to professionals in the preparation of what is now the new educational basis when talented adults are to take care of our children in the day-to-day provision of the future. With the new strengthened curriculum, the Folketing sends a clear signal that the concept of learning is broad and that it can neither be reduced to preschool thinking nor to what is now economically good for society in the longer term. On the contrary, the strengthened educational curriculum is based on the idea that children are children and that there are many ways children can learn. The important thing is not how old the children are, the important thing is not how many flybones the adults can put in a schedule when they have done an activity with the children. The important thing is to create a good educational environment with educated adults who can challenge children and make them thrive. With the curricula, we send out a clear signal that many of the current concepts and municipal tools must be scrapped and replaced with confidence in the employees and a focus on a broader concept of learning, such as: recognises the value of free play. In order for the intention of the strengthened curriculum to succeed, it will require hard work. In all municipalities, you should go together with your head of institution and your employees and find out how to implement the curriculum together in a proper way and how to create a healthy culture of evaluation, where all employees dare to use each other in a good way when they have to talk about whether they succeed with the goals of the curriculum. BUPL suggests in their consultation answer that you do an ongoing master check, and we think this is a good idea in SF. In addition, the curricula will also require that there are enough staff in the rooms and that the staff are trained. The good ideas and intentions in the curricula will never be realized if a teacher is alone with 17 children, as a study from last year showed 3 out of 4 educators doing. When the adults are left alone with so many children, it ends up being pure fire-fighting, and all the ideas of fulfilling teaching plans become virtually impossible to achieve. In the SF we continue to fight for minimum standards, so there is enough time for the individual child, and so we know that day offers are strong educational learning environments and not just storage or a place to place children because adults have to enter the labour market. SF would also have liked to have emphasized this in the purpose clause, i.e. that the day institutions exist in order for children to develop and thrive. The day care institutions are not there to relieve parents, but like the school, they exist because we know that all children deserve to make a strong daily offer and because we know that it is developing the children positively for the rest of their lives. One last good thing about the strengthened teaching plans is that they also apply at the moment in the SFO before the children go to school. It is very good that we put a strong educational content into the time that will be the goal of the children's time during the period that means a lot to the children before starting in the 0th class. SF has from the outset been very positive about the curricula, so when SF was not included in the daily offer agreement, it was mainly due to the fact that the Minister would not allow SF to have anything changed in the agreement. It was a take it or leave it. In addition, there are also parts of the agreement that SF does not consider reasonable. This applies to the new approval criteria for the private institutions, which we would have liked to see applied to the existing institutions as well. In addition, we are not satisfied with the fact that the same requirements for educational curricula will not be made for private care schemes. Finally, we believe that the part of the legislative proposal dealing with combination offers is a wrong way of spending the money. KL also points out that the changes in the combination scheme will require new workflows for the municipalities, which will collect, assess and approve documentation of care needs, fit Danish knowledge and knowledge of Danish values etc. This will particularly burden municipalities which have a labour market structure where many parents have unequal working hours. In addition, the supervisory role of the municipalities will be increased and the right to part-time jobs will also provide an increased administrative task for institutions and administration. KL is concerned that increased use of part-time jobs will create pressure on capacity and lower capacity utilisation, which may have an impact on overall quality. It is also central that the comments to the law give each municipality the right to define the framework for combination offers and for the use of part-time places by parents. KL considers that this will be a significant additional task for the municipalities. So we fear that the combination offers will help to undermine the norms, so that part we will be tabling amendments to get out. Overall, however, we welcome the proposal for strengthened curricula and look forward to good cooperation in their implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320175802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments for the moment, so we will continue in the series of speeches, and that is what Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320175813	Thank you. Bill L 160 is, of course, a change in the daily offer law, but above all it is a strengthening of the quality of daily offers and an increase in flexibility and a free choice for parents. With the day-off agreement, we set off 165 million. kr. to a major competence boost with a focus on strengthening the curricula. Daykeepers and managers and professional lighthouses receive diploma modules or learning programmes to enable them to carry out the task. After all, it is very important that we allocate resources here to put action in place to improve quality, because the children we are talking about here are children over the whole country who need to get a good start in life. The quality of daily offers is enhanced by e.g.: establishing a new regulatory framework for teaching curricula. The new framework is intended to create a common direction for day offers, so as to work in safe and stimulating educational learning environments for all children. In order to increase flexibility for parents, it is proposed, among other things, that parents who have maternity leave should be given the opportunity to have a part-time job of 30 hours per week in daily provision for children in the household. Parents with skewed working hours are given better opportunities to take care of their children outside the normal opening hours of the day offer. There is the possibility of a combination offer, which means that they will have greater flexibility, and that is what it has also been sought to get into the legislative proposal itself. Overall, this is a strengthening of daily offers in Denmark. It raises the quality, it is a step up the ladder, and we can all be proud of that. This allows us to make sure that we have an even better environment for children in our institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180039	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we are ready to give the floor to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180053	Thank you for that, President. First of all, thank you for the very, very positive reception of the draft law today. Thank you, too, for the progress that has been made. Those are very nice words that have been attached to it. It is a political agreement which translates 585 million. kr. a year by which we significantly strengthen the daily offers, including the quality of the daily offers. All children, including children who do not have the best luggage in the backpack, must thrive and learn in the day offers, and we know that the first 1,000 days are the most important. Every day all children must experience a safe learning environment where the child is part of a community of children where there is room for play and where the child succeeds with something. All children must experience being listened to and listening to others, experience being able to put on a flight suit or to dare climbing the highest tree trunk on the playground. Therefore, we strengthen the framework for the educational curriculum in the day offer; it has been developed in close cooperation with knowledge professionals and practitioners to ensure that it makes sense and responds to the challenges that exist. I also note that a great many of the parties today take note of the good process that has been going on, and I just want to give it a few words along the way and say: Imagine that when the educational curricula were introduced, i.e. back in the '00s, it actually happened with quite a lot of resistance! So it is quite fantastic to have got to where we are now experiencing strong cohesion across strengthening the teaching plan. We have also adjusted the purpose of the daily offers, so it is quite clear that play is fundamental in the educational learning environment of the day offers, and that has been mentioned by several here today, among others. by the Danish People's Party and the Radicals. In addition, we are introducing a number of new offers to increase flexibility and choice for parents, and that is something that was also mentioned by both the Left and the Liberal Alliance. Parents in Denmark must have a less stressful everyday life and greater opportunity to choose the offers that suit their very family, and that is where we propose, among other things, that parents have the right to wish to be on a waiting list for exactly the offer that parents want for their child. In addition, parents on maternity leave are also given the opportunity to choose a 30-hour offer for siblings for reduced parental pay, so that the family can have more time together. Finally, parents who work outside the normal opening hours of the day offer are also entitled to a combination offer, so that they are able to take care of their children in the evening, at night and at weekends. The reason is simply that families are different, they have different needs. I look forward to the committee reading and I am of course available to answer any questions which the committee might wish to clarify during the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180341	Thank you, Minister. There are no immediate questions in this Chamber, but they may be included in the committee's work. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180403	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180427	Thank you. Basically, the Social Democratic Party believes that the idea of a social card is a good idea. It is clearly positive that people with social problems, who are very far from being able to do an ordinary job, are given an opportunity and an incentive to take a limited job without having adverse consequences for any transfer income or other benefits, and that there are no barriers to having to pay taxes on less income. Basically, it is important for everyone to be able to feel part of the community, even if you have an abuse, are homeless or have mental difficulties. We believe that everyone can and will contribute, and that is why we must do everything we can to enable everyone to do so. As far as this bill is concerned, we have noted that the consultation responses have raised a concern about administrative costs in relation to the real value of the target group. It may seem very heavy and costly to spend many resources on setting up a new IT system, and we agree that a very large part of the funds allocated are spent on administration. We note that on some points the Ministry has responded to the hearings. We hope that the system can be lasting and, in time, less administratively cumbersome when an IT system is hopefully developed. In this way, hopefully, the investment we have made in relation to the rate pool for the next four years will benefit the target group in the future in the form of a permanent solution. In addition, the consultation answers are positive, and we welcome the assessment that the social free card can mean less crime, fewer admissions to psychiatry due to distrust and fewer relapses for drug addicts who lack money and content in everyday life. The opportunity to earn your own money can be an alternative to begging on the street or crime such as robberies, break-ins or other things where people with abuse or others with an urgent need to raise money find themselves forced to commit criminal acts or prostitutes. The introduction of the social card can also be a step towards a more flexible and inclusive labour market where people with different needs can be better accommodated. This is clearly positive. We are therefore pleased to introduce this as an experimental scheme. We look forward to following the scheme and see if it creates the opportunities that we hope, namely that more people will be able to work a few hours, contribute and feel as part of the community with the opportunities and potentials it has. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180733	Thank you. There is one for a brief comment, as far as I can see. Really? Mrs. Laura Lindahl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180744	Thank you for that and thank you for your support. I just needed to clarify something, because when I hear the rapporteur talking about administrative costs, I think it is because there has been a matter during the week that Jyllands-Posten has touched on in an article. And I think it's just pretty important that you understand that this is based on a misunderstanding. When you set aside funds for this, it's because you have to set up a system. It is not money that should go to some citizens. What you have to do is to set up a system that can be a platform so that the most vulnerable can take a job because they have to do so in certain special circumstances. So I just need the rapporteur to confirm that it is not because we could have chosen to spend the money on the most vulnerable and now choose to spend it on bureaucracy and administration. It is because we need to build a system that can handle what we want with the social card. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180843	I have also read the article in question today and, to that extent, agree with the questioner. I think it is important to say that there has been a concern about these administrative costs and that it has been necessary to look at whether it has an impact on the real value that should be for the target group. That is why I also say that it is a good thing that we have listened to the answers to the hearings and also that the ministries have taken stock of them. And I would like to stress that the scheme here hopes that in time it will be less administratively burdensome and that this IT system, when it is developed, will hopefully help to reduce administrative work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180931	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320180933	Thank you. It was fine just to clarify it, because what is now being spent on a large part of the amount allocated is the development of an IT system, which is a one-off cost. It must be built and established once. Then there is visitation in the municipalities. It is clear that it costs some money, that there are some case officers who have to sit and search the citizens, and then the ministries count on some lost tax revenue, which is an expression of the fact that the ministries are wearing belts and belts because they expect that these are citizens who are currently paying taxes and who, with the social card, are not going to pay taxes. After all, we do not believe in the fact that there are very many of these people who are paying taxes today, so for that part there will probably be a retreat. Therefore, this is a one-off cost of building an IT system and then having an ongoing visitation, and that is probably fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320181022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320181023	To that extent, I agree. It is always important that we bear in mind that administrative expenditure and bureaucracy must be as minimal as possible. It is precisely in this case, which actually serves a very good purpose: that people should become part of a working community and that they should be able to have a meaningful life; then such a shadow has been cast over the proposal. However, I very much agree with the clarifications that have been put on the table here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320181050	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no more brief remarks, so the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karin Nødgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320181059	Thank you. Denmark is a country where most people live a safe and good life. Of course, there are different conditions and living conditions for us, but compared to many other countries we are actually well-off, and there is also a so-called safety net which can be stretched out when it becomes necessary and where there is also help and care to be found for most of us. As a politician in the social field for many years now, you have both seen and heard and experienced a lot of things, and there are a lot of the actions that we take that we can see are actually helping and taking care of the vulnerable people that there are in Denmark. There may be many reasons why they have ended up in a particular situation, a situation where you cannot always manage on your own. When we talk about this group today, there are, in particular, some who, because of illness, unemployment, family problems, homelessness, loneliness or abuse, or very often even a combination of several of these factors, have been exposed. This is all something that we try, often through legislation, to take care of. And often we can also help, but there is no doubt that there can be great challenges for some sections of the population. Sometimes we can implement legislation that can rectify and where we know that it will work from day one. At other times we are not quite sure what it is actually quite necessary to do. But we are also willing to do some tests sometimes, and I really think that is important that we do and that we dare. That's also what we're doing in connection with this proposal that we're debating now, so we're doing this two-year pilot scheme with a social card. That's what we decided in the autumn in the pool circle. And I would say that two years may immediately seem like a reasonably short time horizon to have to see if such a free card will have the desired effect. There are a lot of practical things we have also just heard in a dialogue between the two previous rapporteurs, which must be initiated so that it is possible to put it into practice. And we can also see that there is a large proportion of the funds allocated, the 45 million. kr., for this attempt. But I would also like to say, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, that this is something we can think about a little and that we can sometimes have concerns about. For it is the case that when we speak the pool of rates, it is at least very important for the Danish People's Party that the funds that are allocated will be put out to work among the people they are originally intended and that they should not be used for too much bureaucracy. Hopefully this will be a success, and hopefully the one-off expenditures that have then been spent will be well spent. The most vulnerable, who are very far from the labour market and who have some major problems in one or more areas, will now be able to earn a small sum without being set off against it, and it seems the Danish People's Party is a very good idea. But I also think it is important to make it clear today that it should not be the case that, if you have said that we have now made this scheme where you can get a social card, this citizen has actually been taken care of. It must never be left alone; it must be ensured that the citizen receives the necessary help and support from the authorities in the areas where it is necessary. Because there are many complex issues to be addressed by the citizen, and this must certainly not be ignored during the period when you get the free pass. For me, it is also important to have the opportunity to have a social card, which citizens also experience some sense of meaning, that there is, after all, a light, also in a difficult life, and that there may also be a small light in the form of some quality of life. I think it's very important that you get to experience that. There is no doubt that getting the opportunity to try to contribute and also show that you can actually do some things, that you have an ability to work even though it is to a very small extent very important for the individual. It is for all of us. The hope is, of course, also that some employers will back it up and take on that responsibility because it is a responsibility to employ vulnerable citizens too and then at the same time show respect and patience to citizens. However, it is also important that the employer does not experience unnecessary bureaucracy which can actually prevent the employer from participating and being part of it. And that is why I think it is really interesting now to follow the experiment and that, when it is running out, we are putting ourselves together, both politically, in which we are discussing how it has happened, but also, of course, in the way that we involve the professional groups and the many speakers who have made some very good thoughts and comments, we also saw, precisely because they are in close dialogue with the citizens it concerns in everyday life, listening to them and any comments they may make. Then I would also like to say that some of what I have noted is that there have been some questions and some doubts about what is called holiday and holiday rules, and that is clearly some of what I think we should try to follow up when we start the committee work. Because it shouldn't be the case that suddenly there's something that's beating up some really good thoughts we have on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320181641	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Carl Holst from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320181650	Thank you, President. In the meeting with the socially vulnerable, the view is occasionally presented to the socially vulnerable, especially those who are very vulnerable, that the meeting with Systemdanmark is a meeting where you feel like a case number rather than a person. A meeting where you don't see that you are based on the individual and where no one says to the individual: What can you do? What resources do you have? That you don't ask the question, what do you want? with full recognition that meeting with the social system, on the one hand, and a socially disadvantaged, on the other, is a meeting with a citizen who needs help. This proposal helps to give socially vulnerable people the opportunity to say that they can do something. We cannot help them fully, we cannot make them self-supporting, but we can give them the opportunity to have the feeling that they have easy access to being part of the working community, easy access to say that they can do something and want something. And perhaps they can have a slightly increased sense of identity towards being part of the working community. That thinking hasn't been tried before. The proposal's premise, content and basis of value are new, which is why it is also a new start and therefore a rather expensive start-up. Perhaps it is also in the further work that we will see that there are unresolved issues, we must deal with holiday money has been mentioned and other things. But that does not change what the value base is, the thinking behind the proposal, and that is what I think we should stick to. This can only be done by saying that we do not believe that the solution is that we adopt a law, but recognise that the Social Free Card Act can become something if it is spread to those people, organisations, volunteers, and what do I know? So widespread to all groups who are in contact with this target group to which the Social Free Card relates, who are the ones who are going to help us get the idea, the foundation, the basis of value spread out, so that we make this a success. There's money set aside for that. And money has also been set aside for other things, as has been done in the past. The rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl, used the expression that they have been wearing belts and belts. I think it is a very comprehensive expression of the accounts when 4 million have been set aside. kr. for failure to offset social benefits for the socially disadvantaged or 10 million. kr. I think that is a good thing. But let's see how bad things are. Then money has been set aside to make the IT-related setup. It can be a lot of money, compared to what numbers you have of fellow citizens you get in touch with right now. I have a wish and a hope and a belief that the setup will be a very, very small part of the overall value accounting, when, hopefully, a positive evaluation will enable us to extend it here in the long run to include much, much more of the citizens who social policy must include, namely those who are socially at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320182124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next in the series of speakers is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320182138	I still haven't gotten used to the new order. This proposal comes originally from a man named Krølle, whom the Liberal Alliance started by speaking on behalf of this proposal. So we really need to pay praise to LA for taking this proposal so far. I was actually very skeptical, perhaps because it came from the Liberal Alliance in the first place, you shouldn't be too fine to admit that. But we were converted and we think it is a very good proposal. It is a proposal which, on the one hand, what several people have said from up here, pushes for us to try to build a more flexible and inclusive labour market. • The Danish labour market is by God sometimes just a large square box, which you don't fit into if you are an existence that is just a little bit skewed and is based on the fact that everyone can do something and that everyone wants something. In fact, I think there are few social rapporteurs in here who have not met Krølle, and I know that everyone has heard of him. He was in fact the epitome of a political activist who fought a lot to make the world a better place from the perspective he had from where he came. And he was certainly not a man who had it very easy. But Imagine being in his situation with so many problems and so much to bother with and twitch with, and yet just have what it means to be able to say: when I have my good days and when the day form is there, I would much rather contribute in a good and constructive way and be part of that working community that we talk so much about than doing something. So I actually think that his whole message was that all people can do something and want to be part of the community. And how I wish we would hear that message in some other situations as well. But this is a good suggestion. His purpose has others talked about also, i.e. the thing about earning a penny when you can; putting some tables and some chairs out, sweeping and all that stuff, without becoming a tax cheat, if you don't get it abandoned to SKAT, and without fearing that you are being pulled into cash aid, and that the great evil municipality comes and hits you on top of your head. And that's really good. The problem, which is perhaps a little paradoxical, is, I believe, that something which sounds a little easy can quickly be made extremely difficult when it gets through the ministerial official work no offense. But it may have happened a little here. So, first of all, there is a fairly large proportion of the money that goes to the development of a new IT system. And it is true that it is not administration that the money goes to; it is a completely new IT system that we need to set up. We simply have to start from scratch. It's not just easy. Secondly, we need to see a completely new system in relation to the size of the target group, which according to the government is intended to be approx. 4,000 people. I think I have to put such a small question mark over how many cafes it is that need to put out chairs just by chance the days it is about, i.e. whether it really is 4,000 people who are the target group. It does not in itself make it a bad idea for the target group to be small, but it may be a big thing to do. Then there is also the problem, which at least the Danish People's Party has also raised, of holiday money. I think we will put a written question to the Minister about that. It seems like there's some trouble here that hasn't quite been settled. I can't imagine anything but that you try to fix it if you can. I also think that there is a third problem, and that is that even if you have tried to secure all ordinary employees' rights, you are still not sure that this is done on contractual terms. So you're not actually 100 percent sure that this group isn't really going to be used as a pay printer in relation to unskilled work. And that schism is somehow a little difficult to solve, I think. Perhaps you should really rethink whether what is needed is a model in which you try to push a slightly crooked group into a very square box. Perhaps the money was better spent on starting up social economic companies, which were aimed at creating these jobs instead of just managing them. But summa summarum: Well, we're voting for this bill. We have some clear questions, and then we hope that we can get an evaluation that focuses on the user perspective and also involves some of the organisations that have come into play later. Because it seems they have some knowledge we could use.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320182706	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320182714	Most people have already mentioned what the social card should be and what the idea behind it is. No one is in any doubt either that I am very pleased that we are here today to deal first with the proposal and that there are a great many people who support it so far. It is gratifying, because it is actually not very often that proposals come from the bottom of society and that they get in here and can get overall support. So that in itself I actually find it gratifying and say something about our democracy and about the fact that there is actually not so far from citizens to politicians. I also think it is an independent point that we are trying to open up to give the most vulnerable citizens also the opportunity to take responsibility for themselves on their terms when they can manage it when they can understand it. It is, in fact, a step forward if one can somehow develop a very unbureaucratic labour market where there is room for small jobs for the most vulnerable citizens. There is some dignity in being able to deliver something to other people that is worth paying for. That's exactly what we're gonna give these people the opportunity to do and that they haven't had the opportunity to do for a lot of years. I do not believe that this will solve all social policy problems in Denmark. There are some very, very large barriers between the most vulnerable citizens and then our rather demanding labour market. But I hope that, for a few, it can mean that they can come a step closer to the labour market and that they can experience the value of creating something and being part of a community and being recognised for what one can when one can, even if it is not as much as one can. I believe, basically, that a job is the absolutely best social policy that can be offered to our citizens. So I am pleased that there is broad support for the proposal, and I look forward to it becoming a reality, of course also with the clarifications that we have heard in the past. Of course, we're gonna have to take a look at this vacation money thing. It seems silly, bureaucratic and troublesome. Of course, we also need to make sure that the evaluation is made from a user perspective and that we are sure that this will be a system that really benefits the most socially vulnerable, so we in the Liberal Alliance are just as obscene as I hear other rapporteurs are. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320182946	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320182953	It is not every day that we are dealing with a legislative proposal in this Chamber that comes directly from the street, but we are doing so today. It was the vanished Krølle who got the idea of this proposal, which he then passed on to the Gadejuristen, who then passed it on to the Liberal Alliance, who has skillfully taken it up with the Radical Left and made it into a motion for a resolution which we have taken in and worked on in the pool and now treats as a proposal which is about a social card. It is simply a question of exposed Danes with special problems being able to make a mark on the day, for example. by performing manual work in a supermarket or, as we have heard, in a café, i.e. around where tiny striking tasks can require her husband or woman. We think it's a good idea. The alternative supports the proposal. We have also looked carefully at the consultation answers, which include: has been criticism of some original • what should you say about the idea that those who should use this should have a phone where they could use an app or that it should be done via bank transfer. Those things have been strongly criticised by, for example, The streeteurist, because they exclude part of the target group from being able to use this. And as far as I can see, those criticisms have been well met by the Minister, and we think that is very good. There are also circumstances surrounding holidays which are being addressed here by several rapporteurs. In other words, is it going to make this administratively totally impossible for an employer to have the courage to deal with it and no one at all can understand so much of it? The comments therefore state: "There must be a simultaneous holiday for citizens with a social card, and when they leave, holiday payments must be paid directly to the citizen without reporting to the income register. The holiday payment is part of the income and must be included in it. ▪ As far as I can read it and now you can't keep me completely up with it, if you've made $100, you get some more money on top of it. It's a contemporary vacation, so you get that money in your hand, go ahead. That is what I see, and if it is so, I do not think it will prevent any employers from doing so. It's pretty fast to figure it out. Nor should I conceal the fact that, in the alternative, we had hoped that the system would have become very unbureaucratic and cheap, but it is not so easy to give people a tax-free income. It costs us 45 million at the moment. kr. for a 2-year trial because among other things: must be created an IT system, as the municipalities must be reimbursed for the citizens they spend time searching for a social card. As I said, there is also a refund due to a lack of expected tax revenue of 10 million. I think the rapporteur is right to say that this is likely to lead to a return. Because I don't think that money will be identified. But I really don't think you should see it... what can be said as an investment of 45 million. kr. 2 years. So, I hope that this scheme will last for many years and that we will therefore see it as an investment over 50 years maybe. Because I think we're gonna make this attempt succeed and we're gonna make it a permanent arrangement. In the alternative, we believe that this will bring a few vulnerable Danes with special problems a little closer to the labour market. But we are particularly pleased that it gives, for example. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and whether it is prepared to accept them. should sit down and beg. We are pleased to support the proposal and we thank the pool of rates for working together to lift it beyond the ramp, and we look forward to seeing the evaluation so that we can adjust the scheme and make it a permanent solution. It may be that there are things that need to be changed. We look forward to looking at what kind of wages are being given and what sort of things. But I think we're on the right track; I think we've made most of the investment; I think this is a successful attempt; and I think we're going to make it permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320183421	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320183430	Thank you. In a few days' time, we will have to deal with a proposal here in the Parliamentary Chamber, namely a citizens' proposal, and this is the first time we have tried what has required 50,000 signatures in order to be able to enter the Parliamentary Chamber and be dealt with. That is a very good thing, but I would like to follow up on what the previous speaker said about the fact that one man has also mentioned it, so that he has managed to get his proposal for consideration in the Parliamentary Assembly without getting 49,000 and something, i.e. the many, many signatures. And this in a very positive way, because we are actually adopting a proposal inspired by Krølle, which has been mentioned earlier. Here there is then an opportunity for vulnerable people who have special problems to get an experience of how they can enter a community, a community of work, and experience that they are needed and that you can actually also get a fee, a result, out of it in the form of a salary income, in the terms of quotes for the work you have done. I also think that if we can spread knowledge of this experiment, then I think we can actually mobilise, I was almost saying on the scale of the Friends. After all, they became 150,000 members in a very short time. If we get such popular attention about this, there will be a lot of people walking around and spotting where there is the possibility of having small pieces of work done, and thus also having the opportunity to give some a hand or make it possible that some will come to terms one way or another and perform a task once a week or in any other way that we can now agree on. I think that in itself would be very interesting to see, i.e. how this matter can develop in a good way. I think it is a pity at first sight that it should cost 45 million. kr. to do something that is really so simple. But on the one hand, I understand, the more I've read this bill. For our society is extremely bureaucratic. We've just gotten used to the fact that there are many regulations, many ways to investigate all sorts of things, and we sometimes find it rather difficult and annoying. So I can see for myself that when you have to create something that is completely new, when you suddenly skip the tax administration just to use it as an example, it takes some sort of bureaucracy to do that kind of thing. So, of course, there must also be some people in the municipalities who can search the people who get the opportunity to come under this scheme, and that, of course, also costs some money. That is a new task, and it is set aside for 15 million. kr. to. There is also provision for complaints within the 15 million. kr. I don't know if it's gonna be 15 million. kr., because I hope there won't be a lot of complaints out of this. We can also see that and I would like to acknowledge and commend the administration for that, that is to say in the Ministry that we have actually also found some unbureaucratic solutions to some of the problems that have been raised. That is, for example, the case. the question that there are a whole lot of things that you are not covered by in this situation when you get the type of work like this and are therefore not covered by a number of laws on the labour market. The Vacation Act is one of the examples, and I have read the bill there in the way that the previous speaker has also done, that actually, very simply, holiday pay is paid, if I may call it that, along with the income provided for the work that has been done. A fine calculation has been made of how much to calculate per. day of it. I think that is actually very simple to find a solution to that. That is what we can examine during the committee procedure. I also think that this is an example of trying to find simple and sensible solutions which can also be understood by those who have to finance it and help carry it through. Then I would like to point out something which I think is a little funny, but which may not be different in a large bureaucracy like the Danish one. For in the 45 million. kr. If we do not make this scheme, then there did not come an income which could also be used to obtain a tax income if we did not make the scheme here. So I really think it is a little strange that it is with here as less tax revenue of 10 million. kr. and less set-off or no set-off of social benefits, because it's also part of the whole idea behind this social free card. But okay, we're gonna have to accept that, but it's really such a gift to Systemdanmark. Finally, an evaluation has been carried out with a budget of 2 million. kr., and that must also be very sensible. I look forward to seeing it in two years' time and see how it has developed. When you look at the economic equation, you have to say that then everyone has shown what can come to them. And it should all be the greatest joy for those who get a hand in getting into society on an equal footing with others in a social community. I believe that we will all follow this with great interest and help to ensure that it can be a success.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184030	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue to speak, and the next speaker is Mrs Trine Torp, rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184037	This bill aims to allow some of those who are in the most vulnerable situations to experience a difference, to feel important and to gain recognition for the efforts they are making. The idea is to create a simple path to small jobs, to which they do not necessarily have to commit themselves, but where the motivation can lie, that one can earn a penny from day to day. Such a system needs to be flexible with regard to citizens with unstable lives, but can act as a small push to carry out small tasks that are valuable and that at the same time give a little change in their pockets. So we are in the SF in favour of the intention of the proposal, and so were we when the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left tabled the resolution, which was actually what started the process here. We have also supported making it a pilot project which is initially funded by the rate pool. We believe, however, that if it is to be permanentized then funding should be found elsewhere, because this is really a tax relief, although it has to be said that the tax revenue had not come anyway. But that is what it is, in other words, a tax relief for those who have the least, and even a very, very small amount, compared with what else is being given by tax cuts at the moment. One might say that this proposal is, in more than one sense, a curly proposal. It may well be that curly ideas turn into curly proposals, and when such curly proposals meet a very, very streamlined system, it is not that easy. I also think that most of us have been surprised by the fact that it was not so easy and that it resulted both in higher costs than we had expected, but also in bureaucracy, which we had not just imagined. But I think that, in some way, when we make this kind of experimental arrangement, it is precisely an expression that we should also be able to accept curly proposals inside this Parliament; we should sometimes be able to think curly ideas. That is why we need to use this opportunity to adapt this bill, of course, to any objections that may come from outside. This has already been done on the basis of some of the consultation responses that have been received. There is still a small detail in relation to some holiday money, and I hope that we will be able to find a solution to that during the committee procedure. In addition, however, we must follow the implementation of this and be prepared to change the rules if the social card does not become what was intended, namely an unbureaucratic and easily accessible way of making a little money on small jobs for the most vulnerable. But there is support for a very curly proposal from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184347	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184354	Thank you. It's a long way from life on the street to the Assembly Hall. Curl dreamed. About a little house in the country with a lot of flowers. About a freezer that he could fill with good meat. About quitting the drugs. ▪ It didn't reach Krølle, but he managed to get his curly proposal translated into the bill that we have on the agenda here and now. The article in Jyllands-Posten also says that a simple idea has been curled at Christiansborg. I do not agree with that. I think we should take it from the point of view that we are making an attempt out of the pool to try to hit 4,000 people who have the opportunity to use the social card. It is an opportunity for vulnerable citizens to participate in society's working community and to contribute and experience the value of being part of the working community in everyday life. I think that's the most important thing in this bill. Then there may be some curly issues, which are also reflected in the consultation answers to the bill, but in the end this is an attempt to get some of them into the working community which is not there today and which can be allowed to earn up to DKK 20,000 tax-free. This is a very good legislative proposal, and no matter what the cost is at the beginning with IT etc., it is a law that I hope we can extend when the trial period is over. That is why I would like to say that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184616	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184623	Thank you, President. I think that SF said it really, really well: curly ideas make curly suggestions. That may sound very agreeable, but I think that most people in this Chamber had a very good knowledge of exactly what Curly and what he meant for the debate we have today. Thank you for receiving the bill and also a great thank you for the very nice words that were attached to it. It is a bill that should make it easy for a group living on the edge of society to earn a little extra when they have a surplus to it. And let me just keep on saying that it is not a scheme that has been made in the same way before. This is a completely new way of doing social policy. Most socially vulnerable people really want to contribute on good days, and when possible, but experience falling into barriers, not necessarily large barriers, but barriers that are sufficiently large to discourage them. The social free card is about removing the barriers it is about reaching out and inviting people into the community. Everyone must have the opportunity to take part in the community and make an effort when they can. The Social Free Card must therefore work for vulnerable citizens, and we can succeed if we ensure a good link between the free pass and municipal offers to the target group, and if we succeed on the basis of local conditions and want to establish cooperation with companies, voluntary associations and organisations that already have contact with the target group. Here I think the solutions are diverse and I hope that a great many will be involved in the project. We are laying the foundations for this with the bill. So just about the vacation money thing. Users of the social card will earn holiday money like others, and the intention is that holiday money will be paid with the salary. The holiday payment becomes an integral part of the salary and is thus paid together with the salary, and therefore no set-off of cash benefits will be included. Now the free pass is here. The call must be: Use it. I believe that all of us who are here in the Chamber today hope that it will be a brilliant success, and I am of course available to answer any questions that the committee may have during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184846	But there is also one from here. Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184852	The minister is kind of talking about this at the end. But then, when I take the proposal itself and look at Section 3, it says here: "A citizen who has been granted a social card earns 2,08 days of paid holiday for each month's employment. In the case of recruitment for less than one month, the earnings are made in proportion to 0.07 days paid leave. There's just what I'm thinking: when the minister says that you want to remove barriers, I think this seems a little like a barrier to me. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister does not think that there is something that needs to be adjusted in this proposal, so that we ensure that it is both easy for the exposed citizen, but also that it does not remove the incentive of an employer to give a small job to a vulnerable person.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320184942	We're making a scheme that's unique, we're making a social pass. And then it is clear that when we make such a social free card, there are a number of other conditions that it should fit in with. That is both the holiday legislation and the tax legislation, and that is what we can see in the whole financial statement, which we have discussed with each other on a regular basis. I think it is important to say that this is a unique opportunity. That is also why I hope it will be used. I hope that organisations, companies and public authorities will take steps to ensure that the social card is used. Try to think about if, in a few years' time, when we have an evaluation of it in hand, we can see that it has become a thundering success and that we have a starting point, which means that we can actually see whether we could do even more for a group which today is outside a community and which could have a really, really good way into a community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185039	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185041	Yes, but the Minister himself mentioned the fact that there are complicated rules I think that is what was said. And that's why I'm thinking, if there's something that's very complicated, you can go in there and look at it. And I wonder whether the committee should at least take a look at it and also at the Minister's office. Because it may well be that, as the Minister also says, what is not common, but what we are actually doing as an experiment is not commonplace either. So it might be that you should also look at it with some curly eyes when you look at the holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185112	But I think we did. We have tried to make it as curly as possible, and that must therefore be understood positively. After all, we have discussed this with each other along the way, and it is also important to say that there are a number of issues that we must also deal with, i.e. such things as tax payments, holiday legislation, holiday money, etc. I take note of the fact that it will be relatively easy to use, and I also take note of the fact that it should be unbureaucratic. I believe that what is going to be the great challenge is that we simply have to get it out of work. We need some people to also think it is a good idea so that they actually hire them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185148	There is one more that has a brief comment to make. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185153	Thank you. We've also been thinking about this holiday thing. But I just want to know if the Minister agrees that as described here and as I would understand if I was an employer and there came a homeless person and earned 100 kroner. at my place of residence I pay out as an employer the DKK 100. plus the percentage of holiday money to be added and that when it is done, it is. It must be reported in general, that is, all payments must be made in order for the tax administration to be able to keep track of the fact that people earn no more than the DKK 20,000. But that's it, that's 100 kroner. Plus holiday money, go ahead, done! If the Minister can confirm that, I do not think we need to work so much on it, because I can hardly imagine any easier solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185242	I can fully confirm that. And it is also a system that they already know. So that way it will also be well known. And again: I think the biggest challenge will be that we simply need some to come out and use the card. They must have their eyes opened to the fact that you can now come out and use the social card.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185300	The questioner on his second brief remark? The questioner does not want that. So thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185319	The debate is open. The first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185404	Thank you. It is really, really important for the Social Democratic Party that people who need help from the public are given the treatment they are entitled to. Unfortunately, it is clear that in many cases the municipalities do not meet the requirements that might be expected. When the Danmark map of the conversion rates created by the Ankestyrelsen shows that the conversion rate in two thirds of the country's municipalities is 34 or more in the social field, it is simply not good enough. In the area of disability, and especially in the case of children, it looks particularly bad. 46 per cent. of the municipalities' decisions on sick and disabled children were transformed in 2016 by the Ankestyrelsen following complaints. And 51 out of 98 municipalities made mistakes or made wrong decisions in 50-100 per cent. of cases in the child-handicap area. People with disabilities and their families have enough to fight. Therefore, it is not reasonable that in so many cases there are errors in the cases and that processing times are dragging on. We must be able to do better than that. Therefore, it is also important that funds are allocated to the rate pool this year to strengthen the processing and quality of disability in general. The draft law we are discussing today is one tool out of several to get the municipalities to do better. The viewing of the Danish map of conversion rates and the obligation to make changes visible on the website will suggest that the municipalities continue to work to the best of their ability. The future examination of the map by the municipal council will force the political level to take a position, and that is quite simply good and necessary. The fact that the duration of proceedings for cases which have been referred back to the Ankestyrelsen, and which the municipalities are therefore obliged to look at again, is also shortened, is very positive. Of course, it should not be the case that there is an incentive for the municipality to be able to delay cases by not sufficiently elucidating them, and therefore it is good that there is also a requirement for a reasonable duration of proceedings here. We note that the organisations are positive about the bill and that the KL is sceptical. We see this as an indication that the proposal will have the desired effect and lead to an increased focus on municipalities in order to comply with the legislation and discuss how the quality of the procedure can be improved. That is why, and against this background, we in the Socialist Group can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185651	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is from the Danish People's Party, and it is as rapporteur Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320185702	Thank you for that, President. This bill is a partial implementation of the agreement we have made in the pool circle, and here we have also got some very good fingerprints from the Danish People's Party. We have repeatedly raised the social challenges in the Parliamentary Chamber in several resolutions and also in question debates, with a particularly strengthened case handling in the area of disability, and one of the issues is also reflected in this bill, namely that there are major differences between municipalities and with regard to the publication of procedural time limits. We in the Danish People's Party want to strengthen the quality of the case management in the field of disability, and we want citizens to have the opportunity to see the municipal time limits on different matters on the local authorities' website. It is therefore a good thing that the municipalities are obliged to do this now, and we have also succeeded in including it in the agreement. We then propose that the time limits set by the municipal council should also apply to decisions under the Service Act, which has been referred back by the Ankestyrelsen, and that the deadline should be counted from the receipt of the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. Unfortunately, we have often seen that cases referred back take far too long and that, as a citizen, we must commute back and forth into a system. We have agreed in the pool of rates to allocate funds for an action plan in the field of disability precisely in order to strengthen the quality of the procedure. The action plan will meet some of the challenges, including the challenges of the Danish map, where the municipal council will be obliged to deal with the Danish map of the municipalities' turnover rates in complaints in the Ankestyrelsen at a municipal council meeting, and there will also be a publication of the deadlines. The Danish map, which was first published on 27 June, showed that the Danish Agency for Social Affairs decided on 8,140 complaints in 2016 and an average of 37 per cent. the cases were reversed, either because the decision of the municipal council under the Service Act was contrary to the law and was therefore amended, or because, due to lack of information, the Ankestyrelsen could not assess the case and therefore had to refer it back to the municipality for review. The overall objective of the action plan is to strengthen quality, thereby also strengthening the legal certainty of citizens in dealing with cases in different social areas, and it must also help to reduce the large differences between municipalities in the number of cases dealt with. The aim of the action plan is for citizens to experience so much the help they are entitled to under the legislation by means of a decision without the need to complain to the Ankestyrelsen. That is why I am very pleased with the law that came into force on 1 January of this year, precisely in relation to the suspensive effect, including an alert period, within certain provisions of the Services Act. It concerns Article 3a of the Services Act, which aims to ensure that citizens' services do not lapse at very short notice. The provision concerns a number of disability benefits of a more comprehensive nature in both the child and adult sectors. It is about services such as special day offers and club offers, lost earnings, cash grants for the recruitment of helpers, contact person for deaf-blind and car support, something that we in the Danish People's Party have fought for for for a very long time and which we have also proposed in the Parliament Hall. We in the Danish People's Party hope that the initiatives we are taking here at Christiansborg will help citizens to experience better citizen-closer service and that the municipalities will give high priority to the citizen-friendly welfare. This is, of course, something we want to keep a close eye on, and I would also like to ask the Minister here how he intends to follow up on whether all the municipalities comply with the law, including how citizens are ensured that the time limits for processing are clearly on the local authorities' website. As I said, I also think that this is something we should evaluate in the pool of rates and that we should follow closely how the legislation will be implemented once we have adopted it. Unfortunately, we often see that we adopt some good things in here at Christiansborg, which are often not implemented well enough in the municipalities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190141	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190151	Thank you for that, President. The Left can support the proposal, which has been described in detail by the two previous speakers. There is no doubt that in the citizens' meeting with the system, the system has an obligation to ensure a good framework for legal certainty. The sense of legal security is being violated by a number of examples. We must take this seriously, and this is an attempt to do so. Let us follow developments and see if that is enough; whether we should do something more; whether it is the whip that is the way forward, or perhaps another way that might be that we were a little less detailed in the design of the legal basis and a little more open to local enforcement of the legal basis, that is, where welfare workers in the municipality, who may have the sense of what needs to be done in relation to the individual, make individual solutions. We have had that discussion before and it is stranded on a legitimate doubt as to whether it was a saving project. But it is also an element of it. It is offensive that people experience public authorities making decisions without being heard by parties. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190327	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190331	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like the rapporteur to clarify this with a different approach when we adopt the legislation in here at Christiansborg. I just need to understand whether I understood the rapporteur correctly, given that perhaps the rapporteur thinks that we are adopting too much when he says that we need to implement or implement legislation on the part of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190400	Yeah, that's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190407	However, the rapporteur probably also knows very well by following in the daily press and from the e-mails we get in the Committee on Social Affairs that there have been and still are huge challenges in the social field, precisely in relation to many citizens feeling run over and also being caught up in the system of commuting back and forth and not feeling met. And that is why we have just written into this bill that you have to comply with the law on legal certainty, so that you have to ensure that you have looked through all the legislation in relation to helping a citizen. So what is the rapporteur's proposal? What should be done when what we adopt is not implemented and the legislation is not complied with?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190453	I think I was quite clear in my speech, precisely in emphasising the importance of legal certainty, and I specifically mentioned the consultation of parties or the absence of consultation of parties. So I think it was clear where I am on that issue. But what we also hear is that sometimes it can be a little difficult to find out what kind of foundation it is that you have to make some decisions in the municipalities, because every time they get a new bill passed, another one comes along. We have all acknowledged this in relation to the entire children's area, where every two years a new package has been made, one new package after the other with the best intentions. However, it might be that there are individual cases which do not express the malicious will of the municipal worker, but are an expression of the extent of the lawmill, which makes it a little difficult to find out what it is for a basis to rest on. Then there are also examples where it looks critical in relation to the way the municipalities have administered. Make no mistake about it. I'm just trying to spread the problem a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190610	Let's say mojn, mojn to mr. Carl Holst and welcome to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320190622	If we are to address the problems of legal certainty in the social field, it is really important that the problem is visible, that is to say that there are major problems with citizens who do not receive the benefits they are entitled to under the legislation. That is why I think it was a fine initiative, taken by the Minister, to create a Danish map which made it very visible in fine blue shades, how it looks with the conversion rates in the individual municipalities. There have been such little tendencies to belittle it. I would not rule out the possibility that I myself might have had the rake out once and said: is that what is needed now? And, of course, no one has claimed that it alone is. However, I do think it is an excellent tool for registering how it looks around the country, and of course it is important that you dive into the figures and look at what is indicated by the fact that the Ankestyrelsen has changed the decisions and what covers up the fact that there may have been errors, which may have a relatively small meaning for the case decision itself, but which nevertheless shows that there has been no case-law complying with the law. So I think it is an excellent tool that has been made here, and I think it gives a good indication of which municipalities there are problems and that you can get an indication of what the scope is. That is why I think it is a good proposal which is now being put forward, which obliges the municipalities to act also on the basis of the information that can be seen on the Danish map. It is very important that it is used actively, so that local authorities are regularly given the opportunity to identify what are the specific problems involved in the case-file and to penetrate that particular issue. Is there a formal error in the procedure, which may not have had an impact on the decision, or is there really a very serious problem with wrong decisions? After all, when two out of three of the country's municipalities have no less than a third of their decisions in the social field, this shows that something is wrong and that there is a huge need for municipal councils to discuss the problem on a regular basis. I should therefore like to say that I have simply wondered. When you read the consultation answer from the National Association of Municipalities, I simply find it most shocking that the National Association of Municipalities, on behalf of the municipalities, may think that it is partly to distort the picture of the area at all to publish the Danish map and partly to think that it is quite wrong that the municipal councils should constantly discuss the case. I believe that this is a sign of the sense of arrogance in relation to the treatment of this whole area in a large number of the country's municipalities. I think it shows with all due clarity that although I and Enhedslisten have great respect for municipal autonomy, there is simply a need for legislation which puts pressure on the way in which the municipalities deal with this whole area. I'm not going through any more parts of the bill. Several of the other rapporteurs have already done so. I agree with the comments that have been made, but with this we do not solve the problems of all areas. We can solve, for example. It is not the problem that there are a large number of cases that never come forward because there are many citizens who are unable to complain themselves. We're not gonna catch that up with this, which is an inventory of the handling of complaints by the Ankestyrelsen. Nevertheless, I and the Enhedslist think that this is a very sensible step, and that is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191042	Thank you very much, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. Laura Lindahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191048	Thank you. The proposal here is, of course, part of the pool agreement, and it is intended to ensure good processing in the field of disability. Former rapporteurs have, of course, examined what the proposal is actually made up of. I would say that in general it is problematic that a number of problems exist in a number of municipalities. That is why I think it is positive that action is now being taken. It helps to strengthen the legal certainty of our disabled fellow citizens, knowing that you can get the help that you are entitled to in relation to the law. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191129	Thank you. Welcome to sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191136	Thank you. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens in dealing with cases in the social field and to help reduce the wide differences between municipalities in the number of complaints by the Ankestyrelsen. In addition, the draft law states that the draft law is intended to increase local political awareness of the quality of the municipalities in the case. This has to be done through several different approaches. The time-limits laid down by the municipal council for dealing with cases under the Service Act shall also apply to decisions under the Service Act referred back by the Ankestyrelsen. The period shall be counted from the date of receipt of the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. Time limits for cases under the Service Act must be displayed on the local authorities' websites so that citizens can easily find information about the deadlines. The bill is based on a Danish map of conversion rates issued by the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs. It is proposed that it should be laid down by law that the Ministry should make this card and that the municipal council should be obliged to deal with the Danish card at a meeting. The alternative supports the proposal. We believe that this creates transparency about complaints about municipal administration and, in our opinion, it will clearly benefit complaining Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191252	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and welcome to Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191259	Thank you. It is, of course, the legal certainty of the citizens that we are talking about, and it is a concept that actually emerges more and more often, including in the area of social policy. I myself have been rapporteur on this subject every year, and it is in fact only this time, after I last became rapporteur on social affairs for the Radical Left, that legal certainty in social policy has really come out clearly. I got a visit from the Multiple Sclerosis Association at the beginning of this period. They told me they had nine social workers employed and they travel between 3,000 and 4,000 cases a year. You'll be successful in 70-80 per cent. of the cases. It goes without saying that it is seen by the citizens as if there is no legal certainty when there are so many changes. That's why it's really important that we try to find a way to get me to sort this area out, that is to say, legal certainty, without it being misunderstood that I'm using that turn. After all, we have closed consultations on it, and in the closed consultation, which is soon to be a long time ago, we actually developed the model that one could make such a map of the results of the municipalities in the Ankestyrelsen, if one can put it that way. I think that the Minister has produced in an excellent way the visible Danish map, which is, in fact, both educational and educational for everyone. It's a good tool to have. There, of course, the municipal council is given the opportunity to discuss the work of the individual municipality for citizens with disabilities, and I think that is an excellent idea as set out in the draft law here. A deal has also been made, I understand, with the Ankestyrelsen. There must be, when the comments can be made here, that the Ankestyrelsen in 90 per cent. of the cases will have settled the case within 8 weeks of receipt of the complaint. These are the kinds of initiatives which also create such a certain flow and thus reduce the very, very long time that the citizen can wait for a final decision. I also think I was just about to say freshly that the municipal council must discuss the Danish map before the end of the year at a municipal council meeting. I am actually looking forward to having some minutes of where there are radical members of the municipal council. Because I think it has a huge educational effect, that one is in that situation and has to see oneself in comparison with other municipalities and try to find out why there is that difference. So I would like to say that this bill is actually a legislative proposal that will bring proper treatment into the day-to-day handling of cases relating to people with disabilities, and we welcome and look forward to seeing the outcome of this. I think it's gonna be noticeable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191605	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Welcome to Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191612	I will be very brief, as the SF supports the proposal. It is part of the pool agreement, and it aims to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens in social matters. There are other rapporteurs who have explained a little more in detail what the draft law is about, and for us it is certainly important that we try all the opportunities we have in order to strengthen citizens' legal certainty. Because there is a fundamental problem in trust between citizens and the system, and we have an obligation to do something about that. So SF supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191647	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp, and welcome to Mr Torp. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191653	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the Conservative People's Party supports Bill L 162. The content of the report has been described by the various rapporteurs. We need local self-government in Denmark to carry out these tasks that we as MPs do not always think are being done well enough. We can say that there are municipalities that have not done the job with high grades. That is why it will be necessary for the Folketing to look at how the task will be solved. I have noted that KL says that the errors are due to too many discretionary provisions in the legislation and insufficient guidance and practice coordination at the Ankestyrelsen. I think, and I know that it is difficult to be a case officer in many of these tasks, and many of the cases are returned to technical errors. Another point I would just like to make: it may be okay for us to say that the municipal council has to deal with it. But we do have a principle of delegation in the governing law, which means that municipal councils around Denmark of course allow the trade committee to deal with something like this. That means, of course, that it is typically the Committee on Social Affairs and Health which has to do with such a task as this one. The fact that the Danmark map also has to be for the city council can be fine, so the entire city council will be informed about it. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191859	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby, and with that support, it is not at all a difficult matter for the Minister for Children and Social Affairs to come behind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320191911	Thank you, President. And thank you to the rapporteurs and thank you for receiving the bill. I believe that everyone who works on social policy in here at Christiansborg is experiencing enquiries from families where a citizen, it could be a child, has a disability and where the family simply experiences being completely run over by a system. I also believe that all those who experience these enquiries are of the opinion that it is working extremely hard on such a family. That is why the aim of the draft law that we are dealing with now is also to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens in dealing with social matters. I think it is important to say quite openly and loudly that the turnover rates in complaints in the Ankestyrelsen are far too high in the social field. As can be seen from the Danish Ministry of Children's and Social Affairs's map and I thank you for the kind words about the Danish map of change rates, the rate of change in the social field in two thirds of the municipalities is 34 per cent. or above. So this bill is supposed to help us start to reverse that trend. We need to increase local political attention to the quality of the municipal procedures, and with the bill we will ensure that the municipal council is made aware of the municipality's turnover rate in complaints in the Ankestyrelsen. The aim is simply to ensure a political focus and responsibility for the quality of the proceedings in the municipalities. That is why we are now going to facilitate a political discussion in the municipalities. There is therefore an obligation on local authorities to deal with the Danmark map of conversion rates at a meeting of the municipal council. It will also be ensured that the municipal processing deadlines are clearly available on the municipality's website. At the same time, the draft law states that the time-limits laid down by the municipality today also apply to cases referred back. The aim of the bill is for citizens to experience more of the help they are entitled to under the law through the municipality's decision without having to complain to the Ankestyrelsen. I am, of course, at the disposal of any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192131	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192135	Thank you. I did not hear the Minister reply to the question I asked in my speech about how the government will make sure that all these processing deadlines will now be publicly available on the local authorities' website. Is there someone in the minister's office who is following this up so that we can be sure that this will happen in practice when we pass this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192204	There will not be such direct follow-up 1:1 where you sit with 98 municipalities and review exactly where you have these deadlines. However, if the Ankestyrelsen becomes aware that the rules are not being complied with, it will be possible to raise a case, and the same applies if it is that the Municipal Council does not deal with the Danmark map at a municipal meeting, because then you will also be able to raise the matter before the Municipal Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192237	I understand the Minister's reply that no one is following up whether the processing deadlines are now being presented on the local authorities' website, visible and accessible, as the draft law says. Then I would like to hear about something else in relation to the time limits for the proceedings, because it is the municipal council that sets them, and the deadlines are also very different depending on which municipality you live in. Is this something that the Minister intends to look at, in other words, in relation to procedural deadlines in general, i.e. whether they are too long? After all, there have been several cases in the media about long processing times, which are of course indicative, so does the Minister intend in the near future to set deadlines in the social field?
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192325	This is certainly not part of this bill, but I think it is important to bear in mind that there are at least two different considerations that are important. One is that local authorities would like to deal with the cases as quickly as possible and therefore also lay down time-limits for dealing with them, which are also realistic. On the other hand, it is also important to ensure good legal certainty, because it should not be the case that it is so fast that everything is jabbed through so that the matter is not dealt with satisfactorily and properly. So I am certainly not related to this draft law with the idea of setting such general deadlines, but thinking that it must be something that the municipalities also have an interest in ensuring that they are provided with a good and proper service to their citizens. If nothing else, they will at least now have a very good opportunity to discuss it with each other at the municipal council meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192423	Thank you very much to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs for today's work. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. If none of you object, I consider it adopted. I see the attitude of colleagues in this way that it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180320192447	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 21 March 2018, at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
