ParlaMint-DK_20180503100014	The meeting is open. Member of the Folketing Søren Pind (V) has informed me that he will resign as a member of the Folketing as from today's date. Today there is the following review: Martin Henriksen (DF) and others.: Question No. F 34 (What can the Minister say about the migrant situation in the Mediterranean and the possibility of rejecting migrant boats and sending them back to Africa?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100049	Sjúrður Skaale (JF) has applied for leave from 7 May 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100119	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the fifth deputy of Javnaðarflokkurin in the Faroe Islands, Bjarni Hammer, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 7 May 2018, on the occasion of Skaale Sjúrður's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100146	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100216	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100234	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstained from voting 4 (SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100303	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100324	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 19 (EL, ALT and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100353	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100413	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 19 (EL, ALT and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100442	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100457	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100531	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100547	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 19 (EL, ALT and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100615	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100633	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 19 (EL, ALT and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100705	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100728	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I have just taken a small break, so there is an opportunity for Members who are not to be present in the Chamber to go out so that we can have peace of mind in respect of the proposals and the rapporteur who comes to the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100846	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100921	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503100949	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101003	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101022	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101037	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101055	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101122	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101141	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101159	The debate is open. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101222	This is a bill that the Social Democratic Party can support. When we can do that, it is because a great many citizens experience having a great many different action plans. A great many socially vulnerable citizens are in the situation of dealing with different administrative parts in a municipality and there are some who say that it requires incredibly good health, for example. to be sick. And it is not so good that this is the case; it should be the case that the system actually supports the citizen and helps the citizen and not, on the other hand, becomes a burden on the citizen. One of the problems that this proposal solves is that as many as 7-10 different action plans in different management parts should be able to be considered when you as a citizen have more complex issues. And that is not because this bill solves all the problems, but it is clear that replacing what we call sectoral action plans with a single action plan will make it much easier for the citizen to take a position on it. We think it is very good that we have set out to give this legal basis so that the municipalities can give the citizens a single plan, which means that we can sit down at a table and take a stand on all the issues that concern the citizen, rather than leaving the citizen from one sector to another and getting an action plan in every place. Of course, that's no good at all. Then we also really like the element of the legislation that the citizen can ask for the sectoral action plan himself. Because it cannot be denied that in some areas there may well be a need to be allowed to go into depth with one area, and that there is an action plan which is very specific and very detailed in relation to the issues that are in that particular area. And, of course, it must be up to the citizen to be able to say: I would like to stick to the kind of action plans we have had in the past. So this handing over part of the power to the citizen so that the citizen can decide how best to knit it together, we basically think it's a really, really good idea. We would also like to go much further in cleaning up the legislation that is for citizens, so that we do not have to run from Herod to Pilate when we need help. We really welcome the idea in this bill to make a better transition from one sector to another and to create a little more simplified structures for the benefit of citizens. That's something we talk about in here all the time. I really don't think I know a single politician... I don't think I've ever come across a person who hasn't had a desire to try to clean up some of the rule tyranny you encounter as a citizen, and of course especially as a exposed citizen. It's incredibly rare to succeed. It can be said that we are now succeeding on the back of an attempt by the free community, which has been made, and I really think this is a good opportunity to pop with the flag so that we can make it possible for there to be free community attempts, and also that it will then be picked up. All too often, as far as vulnerable citizens are concerned, we find that a single municipality or two have found the stones of the wise and have actually found ways of helping vulnerable citizens, but subsequently the evaluation report reaches no longer than the nearest official's drawer and is never looked at again, and those methods are never subsequently used for the benefit of the citizen. There, of course, it is very satisfactory that on top of the free community experiment, the knowledge that has been gathered is actually used and used for the benefit of the vulnerable citizens. So, overall, we believe that this is a step away from the fact that professionalism and relations between people, who are, after all, the foundation for social work, are being scheduled. We're gonna get a step away from that with this bill. And, of course, as I said, it does not solve all the problems, but I do not think we should be mistaken: for the vulnerable citizen, it means a great deal to be able to confine ourselves to having one single plan, where we can relate to what should happen in all the areas where we need help. So the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101609	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101614	Thank you for that, President. One entrance, one caseworker and one plan if we can get there in the citizen's meeting with the system, then it will be the perfect world of all, both for the citizens and for the public system, and I think we can all agree on that. With this proposal we are taking the first small steps in that direction, so far, so well. This bill is a "can" task for the municipalities and not a "must" task, so it is a bit like a free municipality attempt. So that's only half a solution? I would have liked it to be a shell task for the municipalities, but now it has to be evaluated in 2021, and we hope that it will develop in this way. Because I'm worried about how many municipalities will then test the experiment now here, when it's not a shell task, but only a can-do task. Citizens are not entitled to have a holistic approach, even if they want it, because it is only a task, and therefore they cannot complain about not having the offer. However, the citizen can opt out of the offer. Indeed, the citizen must consent to whether or not the citizen wants to form part of such a holistic plan, and that is a good thing. Today there are demands for follow-up to the various plans that the citizen has. What are the requirements for follow-up when there are different plans that are contained in an overall plan for the citizen? Are the current requirements for monitoring the individual zones complied with? This is a question I would like to ask in committee. For it is important for the Danish People's Party that citizens' rights and rights are not weakened by this bill. I would have liked health to have been in focus in this proposal too, and I can see that it will come later. Because it is the case that citizens who are far from the labour market often also have a strong link with health care. Then the bill says that we have to evaluate in 2021. I would also like to ask who should evaluate. I would like it to be an external evaluation rather than the municipalities themselves. I would also like the evaluation to focus on the holistic plans that apply to an entire family, where there are also children's cases, as I may be afraid that children may be forgotten to be heard by parties and that they are followed up all the way around. In the Danish People's Party we would like to see a coordinating caseworker always associated with a holistic plan for citizens. This will ensure consistency in the course of the citizen so that things do not fall between two chairs, because it is unclear who has the main responsibility. Finally, a little about data sharing: the citizen must consent to data sharing. Who knows where the citizens' data is in this data sharing? And what if the citizen withdraws his consent? What happens to data already shared and used? The draft law should provide for data sharing to be carried out in order to track down the citizen profiles that might have an interest in the overall plan. It takes a legal home. After all, the citizen has not given his consent to data sharing. What happens to the data after you've created the profile? Are they being erased? Although we have many questions in relation to the committee work, we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of the proposal. We look forward to taking the first steps to one entry, one procedure and one plan that will benefit citizens, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503101957	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503102002	Thank you. In the Left, we are very concerned that we are putting the human being before the system, and it can be said that this bill on something is a bill that puts the human being ahead of the system, and that is something that a Leftman like me is delighted about. The aim of this law is to allow municipalities to draw up a single plan for citizens with complex problems. It allows for a much more holistic view of citizens, and that is what the municipalities have called for, and that is what we politicians across parties have called for, that is, that we have a holistic view of citizens when they enter and ask for help. When a citizen today troops up to the municipality to get help with a number of problems, the citizen often experiences an uncoordinated course with perhaps four or five different action plans. The many and perhaps uncoordinated processes are creating confusion, waste of resources, taking huge amounts of time and profits from the citizens, who actually have enough to deal with in advance. One could imagine Lone, aged 45, who is on cash benefits and has three children. The 14 - year - old elder is having a difficult time at school and has begun to cut himself, and Lone has a bad back and chronic headaches. She's starting to abuse alcohol, but she's hoping to be approved for a flex job. After all, the family is almost in constant contact with the municipality through associated psychologists, case managers, support teachers and physiotherapists. The aim of the bill here is precisely to allow municipalities to coordinate and to reduce the problems of citizens, i.e. Lones. From now on, a vulnerable citizen like Lone with three children will no longer be associated with different case managers from different parts of the municipality, have four or five different uncoordinated business plans and retell his story numerous times to changing employees. And now Lone is a fictional person, but she could be a typical example of some of the vulnerable citizens living in our municipalities. With the bill here on one plan, we give the municipalities the opportunity to put people ahead of the system, and on that basis the Left will support this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503102259	Thank you. There are no comments, and then it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503102309	Thank you. Enhedslisten also thinks that this is a positive proposal and we think it is good that it has been started. When we put it that way, of course, it is because we do not think it goes far enough. There are many more things that need to be done to make it a good case. The Enhedslisten has a large number of requests and proposals for improvements to the proposal, which we share among others. with Better Psychiatry, Children's Council, Danish Social Advisor Association, Danske Handicaporganisationer, FOA, LO, FTF and the Council for Vulnerable and SAND. Our proposal is, of course, first and foremost that it should be a legal requirement, that is to say something that can be said: I would like to have such a comprehensive plan. It is not at the moment, it may be. In addition, there must be the possibility of redress both by refusing a plan and by refusing the content of the plan. We also believe that it is very important that action in the health sector, including psychiatry, can be included in the holistic plan. And I can of course hear from several of the other rapporteurs that they are in fact very much in agreement with that, so that we may not have constructive treatment there. But the important thing is that everyone who gets a holistic plan should also have one coordinating case officer. I understand that the municipalities have had to specialise and divide up the case, but it really has some backsides, of which we have now seen many. In the municipalities where an overall plan has been tried out, it has clearly shown that it is producing good results. We can also realise that this means that the case workers have to have a lower case number, otherwise they will not have the opportunity to make a really qualified effort with proper preparation. So there must also be demands for the professional qualifications of the case workers to be improved and for the possibility of further training, otherwise we may risk half-hearted action. But then the timer comes. It is clear from the comments that it would be desirable to allow municipalities, without the consent of citizens, to merge existing data, and it is described as having to be in order to identify the target group that needs it. Oh, my God, you can just ask. One can only ask the person concerned whether there are other problems to be included in the proceedings. That is why I think there is a very strong contradiction between the intention of the proposal and then that part of what is about the interconnection of existing data without consent. It is simply two different sets of ideas that lie in the one and the other parts of the proposal. It is important that we say that the purpose of having the co-operation procedure is precisely that the case officer in question gets to know the person concerned, and that is why this data collusion is not necessary at all. The requirement for a data consultation and now we need to have a new data protection law at least contain that it is with consent and, in addition, that you can also be informed on request of what is at all registered about you. Then comes the last question, which is also important, and that is: How are the data stored afterwards? It doesn't say anything about that. However, as I said, we can support the proposal and, from what I have heard so far, we believe that there can be a very good and constructive discussion of it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503102639	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503102646	Thank you for the floor. This bill will make it possible to draw up holistic plans for citizens who need it. In the autumn of 2017, together with the newly appointed Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality and Minister for Nordic Cooperation, Eva Kjer Hansen visited most of the 12 municipalities in the Jutland Region of Southern Denmark. The purpose of the visit was to understand what problems the legislation we adopt in this Chamber creates in terms of trouble and bureaucracy out in what is popularly referred to as reality. Let me just say in passing that this is an exercise that I can really recommend, because what happens between the adoption at the third reading in this Chamber and the day-to-day administration of legislation, for example. The municipalities, then, are something that sometimes makes it gibberish in you. I would not quite say that this corresponds to a situation in which the Folketing decides to build a road on Funen and suddenly finds that a railway has been built in Jutland, but it is sometimes very close. However, the lack of coherence in the efforts which, in theory, were intended to help citizens is simply one of the problems most often heard about when talking to the employees of the municipalities. And contrary to what the rumors are, the vast majority of the employees in the municipalities are some talented, professional and warm-hearted people who are really upset by the chaos that we have forced them to administer, so to speak. So it is a huge problem that there is a lack of coherence, and it is a recognised problem, and when it hits a person who is in a vulnerable situation, it is an absurdity that one can hardly bear that one is, to put it bluntly, a kind of accomplice in creating it. So it is a very happy day today, when we are addressing a much-needed clean-up in some of the laws and regulations that cause trouble and trouble and insecurity for citizens. That is why it can almost be estimated that the Liberal Alliance strongly supports this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503102917	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503102924	Thank you very much. As a starting point, the alternative also supports this proposal. The citizen is at the heart of that. It creates simplicity and clarity in the procedure. And, as I see it, the municipal silos break down and create the whole thing that actually allows citizens to be given a much better and much more individual case handling. But to put this into perspective, I have to talk a tiny bit about another law. As I have said, we are in favour of this draft law on the basis of which it is intended to offer an overall plan. However, we are very much opposed to the government's plans to collate citizens' data in order to seek out the target group. However, this is not something we are voting on in this draft law, because the government's plan is to allow the interconnection of citizens' data through a ministerial decree by virtue of the government's proposal for a new data protection law, which is currently being dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs. As you know, we are opposed to the provisions of the Data Protection Act which provide for the possibility of making these ministerial decrees. The law has not yet been passed, so we do not really know what it will look like. We therefore do not know whether the government will actually be able to issue a ministerial decree to collate citizens' data in order to seek out the target group, in other words, where all the citizens' data will simply be connected in a municipality before people are asked about it. We will only know this when the proposal for a data protection law has been finalised in a few weeks' time. So our perspective on this bill in relation to the Data Protection Act is that this proposal is good. However, if the Government's data protection law is adopted in its present form, it will bring about and make possible something that we are opposed to, that is, this general coordination. This calls for a fundamental debate on what we consider to be the most important. However, that discussion does not really make sense for us to take until we have finalised the proposal for a new data protection law in a few weeks' time, probably on 17 May. We will therefore not give a final statement of our vote until Parliament has finalised the proposal for a new data protection law in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503103139	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The rapporteur of the Radical Left is ready. Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503103154	In the Radical Left, we are quite crazy about the system of free municipalities. In fact, we would very much like to see the possibility of challenging rules and laws which are very bureaucratic and which seem to prevent new thinking in the public task solution being extended to many more than municipalities. In fact, we would like individual institutions to have the same right. Because there are a lot of good ideas and a lot of new thinking coming from the state when we allow laws and rules to be challenged and give freedom of common sense to carry out the task. The draft law we are discussing here today is precisely an example of an attempt by the free community, which has made a great deal of sense and which now translates into concrete legislation. As several of the rapporteurs have said, all municipalities are now being given the opportunity to bring together and back together efforts in a coherent plan for citizens who have complex and complex problems and who therefore have several entrances to the municipality. Specifically, the draft law gives the municipalities the power to replace the sectoral plans of the citizens with a holistic plan. We radically think this is a very good idea and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503103308	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503103314	Thank you for that, President. There are no citizens who dream of being dependent on help. When, for a while or forever, we lose our foothold and need a helping hand, it is crucial that aid is targeted right where it is needed. Most citizens actually know where the shoe prints the most. Others need professional help to get an overview of the need for bets. I fully agree with the many organisations which point out that coordinated action, one plan, is a right step on the way, and I also agree with them that it is not enough at all. Recently, I met a young woman who suffers from arthritis. Her cooperation with the municipality covered four management areas, each of which had the best intentions, but each of which also came across each other's plans. The young woman herself thus fought first and foremost for a life without pain, but also an active life and self-reliance, in which it could be taken into account that the disease was alternately active and calm. She had the most confidence in the health services' understanding of her situation because, as she said, if she had not been ill, she would not have needed the others. Also socio-economic, it makes sense if the municipality itself thinks a little more across. For example, I am saddened when Daniel is denied the leg prosthesis, which allows him to take up a full-time job. The worse alternative, which the social services think is good enough for young Daniel, will certainly mean that Daniel is straining his hip so much so that in the long run he cannot do his job, and then it will cost another administration from which Daniel does not want any help at all. Unfortunately, the examples I have mentioned are not directly covered by the draft law. I mention them anyway, because these are examples of how it is worthwhile both human and socio-economic to get the right help at the right time. What may seem to be the cheapest solution at the moment may end up being the most expensive solution, because administrations are pillar-separated and with independent responsibility for their own budgets, and thus without regard to how decisions affect the budgets of other administrations. This is the first step that this draft law is an expression of, and therefore also a right step, which should be supported in the slightly longer term by necessary legislation, which seriously enables municipalities to think interdisciplinaryly both economically but also humanly, and place responsibility for coordination where it makes the best sense. Therefore, it also makes sense when the Social Advisor Association and others point out that the coordinating caseworker is the key to the success of the plan in earnest, and it makes sense when several people point to the need to re-evaluate whether the employment focus should always be the highest priority. It would make sense, in a number of areas, if the employment administration gave responsibility, competence and resources to other administrative areas, that we gave the municipalities the freedom to leave the employment administration on their hands, while other administrations were working on what was the immediate cause of the dependency problem, but also that we re-examine the time constraints, which are, after all, average considerations. Last but not least, I would also like to make a few comments on the questions of data sharing and consent. It is essential for the success of a plan that citizens can be confident that personal data is processed with the confidentiality that should exist, and it is crucial for the plan that citizens' legal certainty is not violated by unnecessary sharing of personal data. And in the same way, we are critical of the part about tracing and monitoring. I therefore believe that we must also work to ensure that citizens have more easy access to their own data, including access to checks on who has had access to personal data and what they have been used for. I would have liked a more ambitious plan, but fortunately I have also noted that the Minister agrees that this proposal is just the first step, and I have just taken note of a promise at the rapporteur's meeting that, immediately after the adoption of this proposal, we will continue to work on the outstanding outstanding amounts in relation to one entry, one case officer and one complete plan. The SF shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503103718	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503103732	We can also support the bill. This is a very good attempt to help citizens with various complex problems and to ensure that they have a comprehensive plan. Instead of the effort being made up of a lot of different fragments, you try to make things stick together. In fact, it can be said that the problem here may not be so much that there is not an overall plan as that the rules, legislation and efforts in this area are so complicated that it is completely impossible for citizens to understand, and it can also be quite difficult for the various authorities to work together, and that is why we need to use resources to ensure that some people coordinate and have a unified plan. Nor should we, I think, be blinded, despite the many words of the law which are being said here, by the intention to make an overall plan for it, that there may also be problems in it. There may be more cooks in there, and the professional insights of the person who has to sit and make the plan may not be as great as that of the various authorities who have to handle partial efforts around. Sometimes you would actually rather talk directly to an expert for a particular effort than you would talk to a person who just has a broad superficial knowledge of various interventions. So I think we should also be aware that professionalism is being preserved. However, when it comes to "as there may often be in these situations •citizens who will find it difficult to understand all the rules and the efforts of the authorities, it makes sense to try to make an overall plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503103924	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, and that is why it is the Minister of Public Innovation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503103933	Thank you for that and, above all, thank all the rapporteurs for the speeches and the basically positive reception all around. The bill here stems from the Government's ambition to create better and more coherent processes for the citizens who are today being met by a sea of plans, interventions and case handling. There are far too many citizens today who are experiencing an incoherent process in which efforts are being made across social management, employment, integration, etc. not thought well enough together, and where today it is largely left to the citizen himself to create the red thread and thus try to create an overview and coordinate the efforts. This means frustration for a great many citizens, but it also means that we do not necessarily deliver the quality that we could and should deliver to people who are in a difficult situation. It is quite true that the bill here is inspired by the fact that a number of free municipalities have been working on this agenda for some time and thus working on the ambition to create more coherent initiatives for the citizens of Denmark. There we have had some good experiences. We've used them. We therefore also take responsibility as legislators in order to break down some of these many silos that exist and create the framework for a development in which we can give citizens a coherent and comprehensive approach. I think in many ways that it is a paradox in Denmark that those who have the most difficulty are also the citizens we meet today with the most opaque jungle of offers and interventions. After all, it is not unusual for a recipient of cash benefits to have somewhere between eight and ten different business plans and a sea of changing case managers. The draft law here is what I think creates the infrastructure for us to break down the silos in order to deliver much more cross-border cooperation with the citizen. This allows the citizen with complex and complex problems to have a holistic plan rather than all of these many different sectoral plans, all of which have invented and devised by us as legislators in the best sense, but which ultimately end up totally distorting the effort, because we as legislators have not thought the efforts together across. This is what we are now opening up the way for with the bill here, and so we can think about efforts and plans across the municipality, particularly social, integration, education and the whole area of employment, and other initiatives, such as the European Social Fund. is not a planned requirement, will of course also be able to be incorporated into the plan. We have targeted the holistic plan towards citizens with complex and complex problems, where the municipalities are currently preparing several different plans and initiatives and where there is a great need for coordination with the different interventions. It may be the cash benefit recipient who gets an employment-oriented effort in what is called "My Plan" and who, at the same time, receives support under the Services Act, where it would be appropriate to bring together the efforts in a holistic plan rather than in eight to ten different sectoral plans. The holistic plan can also be made as a single family plan, which thus includes everyone in a family. On the other hand, a plan cannot be drawn up without the citizen himself having actively agreed to the offer. In other words, the citizen will have to give his consent to the offer to have a holistic plan and to exchange information with each other in the municipality's work. At the same time, it is also important for me to stress that the draft law here does not change the current rules on citizens' rights and access to justice. Nor do we change the fact that the municipalities are obliged to provide citizens and decide on interventions. On the other hand, we give the municipalities an organisational freedom to be able to think things together in one plan in a whole, so that we can achieve the ambition of: one citizen; one plan. In doing so, we are also breaking down some of the structural barriers that are currently in order to give citizens a coherent response in practice. I always say that I do not know any people employed in the public sector who every morning go to work on the ambition to make life really difficult for those who have the most difficulty. They don't exist. However, as legislators in our eagerness to constantly invent new efforts and new plans, we sometimes put our employees around the public sector on social services, at the job centre on something that looks like an impossible task when we have decided in advance what needs to be done by different plans, rather than having confidence that the employees can deliver a much more holistic effort together and anchored in one plan. Then I hear several rapporteurs today say that they have the courage to do more. The government has done so, as we also make clear in the comments on the draft law. For example, one of the rapporteurs raised the question: what about the plans for health? Shouldn't they also be thought and thought into, whether we're talking somatics or psychiatry? That is one of the things we are very concerned about being able to continue to work on, and that is why this is also the first step in the work we have now started and on which I have also invited the rapporteurs to the Ministry of Finance for discussions, and I have also invited the free community network and a sea of all the relevant organisations in this area. And that is why, under the context of the cohesion reform, we in the government will continue to work on the agenda of how we can, in practice, ensure citizens more coherent and holistic efforts. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and for their positive reception. I also note with great satisfaction that, among the consultation parties in general, there is very broad support for the draft law. I look forward to further consideration in this Chamber and, of course, to answering any questions that may arise during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503104641	Thank you. There's a comment, sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503104644	Thank you. The alternative also has the courage to do more, and we are glad that we have been invited to the ministry to look at this and discuss it and talk about it before we should stand here. We think that's a good custom. I very much agree with almost everything the Minister says about the good prospects and proportions that are in this. What my question is about is something else. I just want to hear the Minister's comments on some of the hearings, for example. what has come from the Danish Social Advisor Association, and that from the Institute of Human Rights, which writes that it is almost unnecessary to profile all citizens • so it goes on here with gathering information about all citizens and then finding out who it is that needs them. You could just ask the citizen, as some rapporteurs have also said. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503104738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503104739	It is quite true that we will allow municipalities to identify those citizens who, in practice, are in contact with different administrations and services, and hence authorities, in order to support a more holistic procedure. Then the questioner says: 'You can just ask the citizen.' Yes, if the citizen shows up and you meet the citizen. But it is not all citizens of this society who necessarily follow in the same way that we are now adopting a new legislation in the Folketing that will give us the opportunity to draw up a holistic plan. I also believe that we have a responsibility to give the opportunity to make a single plan for those citizens who do not have the resources to shout and say: I think this could be relevant to me. Then I would also like to bury the myth that is among the members of the Alternative, that it is just all sorts of wild information that we then start giving municipalities the opportunity to exchange in the ambition to identify citizens. The short answer to that is no. The information will not contain detailed information about the cause and background of the citizen's efforts. In other words, it only concerns information at the list level, for example that a citizen is the recipient of my Plan, or that a citizen gets an effort under Section 85 of the Service Act to give an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503104907	When I stand up, it is because the speaking time is about to be exceeded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503104913	The last answer is fine, but it was not an answer to a question from us. Well, we haven't talked about wild information, etc. We are just trying to ensure that there is no unnecessary monitoring. I am thinking that precisely those citizens for whom this is interesting are precisely citizens who, hopefully, have set up a case along the way in the field of employment, social or health. These are the very ones that I expect you to be in contact with and that the case workers sometimes talk to, and therefore do not have to sit and see for themselves that they have the opportunity to get their information together, but are in dialogue with the system. There is just what I thought: if the vast majority of citizens who are relevant to the one plan are still in dialogue with the case officers, why not ask them about this instead of automatically coordinating?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503105003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503105005	The citizen must actively consent for personal information about the person to be shared in a municipality. The citizen must give active consent to this. A municipality cannot do that without the consent of the citizen. How, then, do we find the relevant citizens who might need to have one plan? Some may be asked, but not all of us find them. So if you have the premise that people have to raise their hands, then we as legislators must also accept that there are some people we could have helped whom we choose to turn a blind eye to. And we have to say that these people will not be identified. This is where I think there is a good balance in saying: do not, without the consent of the citizen, exchange any kind of sensitive information; what you need to co-operate to find the relevant citizens is mere list information, for example that a citizen is the recipient of my Plan or gets an effort under Section 85 of the Service Act, i.e. everything that is not personal information about the citizens but not sensitive personal information.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503105108	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503105122	The debate is open. Sir. Per Husted, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503105143	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law here is part of the extensive work of making recovery work and the tax debt fall, therefore, the recovery of the many different types of debt which the tax administration is responsible for securing comes into the treasury. The history is quite familiar with the cessation of the EFI recovery system, which was started back under Kristian Jensen and which the SRSF government inherited and initiated, but which proved to have considerable problems in functioning and in recovering on a basis that one could be sure was legal. Therefore, the plug had to be drawn on the EFI and additional resources were needed for more manual work on recovery, review of claims, extension of limitation periods, depreciation, simplification measures, organisational changes, and we can continue. The Social Democratic Party has been involved in the various political agreements on clean-up after the EFI. We are taking co-responsibility and pressing for recovery to work as quickly as possible. It is not sustainable at all, either in relation to the Treasury or to the tax morality, that there are more than 100 billion in total. kr. I would like to point out to the House that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations has not yet been adopted. We still believe that there is a need to significantly strengthen the tax administration when it comes to recovery, and we are closely following the development of the new system's support, including in the area of control and guidance, in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the primary source of a lack of tax revenue of at least 25 billion. kr. a year. The bill is the implementation of the part of the political agreement of June 2017, which announces several simplification measures. It is a major legislative proposal with several elements, which must overall simplify the rules so that debt recovery becomes more effective and suitable to use IT for, and in general make the rules easier to manage in the new system, which must therefore support the recovery of debts from 800 different creditors who receive 5-8 million debt items for recovery each year. It's pretty extensive. More clear special rules must be created for obsolescence, clearer and simpler rules on, for example. the calculation of the ability to pay and various measures to avoid data errors in the debts to be recovered by the tax administration on behalf of various other claimants such as DR, DSB, utilities, etc. We can support these measures in general. However, we are very aware of the criticisms that, for example, have been made. has come from the CSF - Danish auditors on obsolescence rules, and we must then consider this during the further committee reading. In the context of the political discussions on the measures here it was important for the Social Democratic Party to have more elements added than those first presented by the government. Fortunately, we could agree on that between the parties, and they are also included in the proposal here. It is a question of us not accepting that it is possible to run away from the bill, so to speak, that people with tax debts can go abroad and settle and that, therefore, the tax authorities have virtually no chance of recovering that money, among other things. Because the IRS has no idea where people are. We're talking about approx. 8 billion. kr. of the approximately 100 billion. kr., which the state and the other claimants are currently swimming. Therefore, an obligation must be introduced to indicate where you are moving, and you must keep your information up to date on a regular basis. If you don't, you have to be fined. It's been agreed, and it's being introduced with the bill here. Of course, we appreciate that. However, we can be a little sceptical about the adequacy of sanctions. However, the Minister of Taxation has announced an amendment on this. We will support that, and we will, moreover, come back to monitor whether the sanctions need to be tightened up. Another issue that we think is important to implement is that the tax administration should be able to recover debt more quickly from people with high incomes, who thus have a high ability to pay. The wage maintenance rate of people with high incomes will then also be raised by the tax minister, alongside the bill being discussed here in the Danish Parliament. The draft law also provides for the abolition of pilot schemes to cancel public debt for socially disadvantaged groups. It is important for us to stress that it is not because there must be less opportunities to help hopelessly indebted socially disadvantaged citizens to a new start, but because the previous system has not been very good at helping with that particular. Too few people actually benefit from the millions that have been set aside in the Finance Act but have not actually been spent. I guess we're gonna have to stop. The rapporteur has gone a long way over speaking time. ) I am sorry to the President, but in conclusion I would like to say that we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503105713	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503105728	Thank you. We have now over several times and for quite a long time dealt with the recovery in the SKAT. It is natural to make it work again, which is of course extremely important for us as a society, namely that we have reduced the debt, which is historically high, both for purely economic reasons for the state, but also for the sense of justice among the citizens, because it may of course be offensive to some people, that you have a feeling that you can just not pay what you owe, and then you just lie there and put yourself in front of SKAT. Of course, this should not be the case, so it is also very much about trust in the tax administration. This bill is then another in line to correct the rather basic poor course we have had since the EFI recovery system collapsed and never got up and running. The lesson of the yes, there were several things, but one of them was, as it were, that in the legislation we had, the rules were simply too complicated and it was almost impossible to make IT support. That is why this proposal for a directive is a very positive one: we are trying to simplify legislation so that it makes it easier to create IT support that can be possible and thereby also make recovery work. In total, there are 13 actions in this bill. I will not go into detail with all of them, but will say that this is the case in three groups, something about limitation periods, something about there having to be some simpler rules, and then what you do if data errors occur, that is, if somebody reports some data that is wrong, what do you do and who is responsible for getting it right? One of the measures, of course, is, if one is to be taken, that there will be such a temporary interruption of the limitation period when the recovery authorities receive it. One might say that if it is typically 3 years today that one has before it becomes obsolete, there will be a new period from the date one hits until tax, and that is simply for one to be able to handle matters better. Of course, it may suck for some of the people who might normally have escaped paying it after 3 years, but vice versa it is also money that people still owe to SKAT after all. So we think it makes sense to have this reset of the obsolescence when you hit tax and get an opportunity to recover it. Then there is one thing I would like to stress, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, namely that this experimental scheme, which has been about the cancellation of debts to the socially disadvantaged, is being removed, an experimental scheme which, after all, has lasted for 17 years. I do not know how much one can talk about it being an experimental scheme, but it is a system that is used very little and has been very little helpful in relation to the socially vulnerable, which was in fact the intention of it. So I also think it makes sense to have it abolished now, because we, the parties behind the agreement, have at the same time also indicated that we are going to have an investigation into how we can then spend this money and have an arrangement that can then support these people so that they can move on with their lives. We look forward, of course, to that analysis being made. Then there are a few things that are not included in the bill, among others. that there will be an increase in wage restraint, so that those with the highest income can also pay off something more on their debts because, after all, they have more room for manoeuvre. There is an increased effort against debtors abroad. That is why, overall, we believe that this has become a good agreement and a good legislative proposal, which we can support. I can see that all the parties are behind it, which also indicates that it is perhaps a fine balance that has landed here, in that all parties can see themselves in it. So I have to say that we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503110059	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503110107	Thank you for the floor. Now we are again discussing a proposal on the SKAT and the restoration of the SKAT. I think I had been a tax rapporteur for a month or two when the whole SKAT collapsed in the middle of the summer holiday, just after we had gained government power. And it may have set a slightly different agenda than we originally expected when we went to the polls, because it has become one of the biggest economic priorities for this government to restore the SKAT. I am pleased that all parties in the Folketing are now helping to take responsibility for simplifying the rules on recovery. That is absolutely necessary. One of the things we saw went wrong with the old recovery system was that we had too complicated legislation. This is one of the things we are trying here to simplify and make easier so that we avoid similar problems in the future. So I would really like to thank the Left for the other parties who are helping to take responsibility here for simplifying the rules so that we can have a functioning tax system in the future. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503110204	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503110212	As other rapporteurs have said, this bill is part of the clean-up after SKAT has been destroyed, especially since 2005, by savings, saved to pieces and, in fact, destroyed by everlasting restructurings. There are also a lot of good things in which one can say that one could have done anyway. And Enhedslisten is also included in this agreement, and of course we would also like to be involved in the ongoing discussions on how we can organise the tax administration in the best possible way. After all, we are still not quite there, although a number of good decisions have been taken. And there it is especially tax control that is lacking in upgrading. On behalf of the Enhedslisten I have among others. I have done a great deal of that, and we can see that when the individual employee goes to work, they simply shovel in money which should have long since been in the common fund. This means that there is a huge potential, not least in the area of, among other things. The VAT area, in order to hire more people to get the money into the common fund, which should have been there a long time ago, and which can be used to hire more educators in kindergarten, more nurses in hospitals or more primary school teachers in primary school. As far as the bill is concerned, Mr. Per Husted of the Social Democratic Party and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party reviewed much of the content, and I will dwell a little on the two things that I think may not be the case, following on from the consultation answers we have received in connection with the bill. This is the automatic extension of limitation periods, and it is the abolition of this system of tests for the cancellation of public debt. We can see that, in their hearing on the proposed provision on the temporary interruption of the limitation period for debts, the Lawyers' Council notes that the proposal has the consequence of extending the three-year limitation period in practice to a six-year limitation period, that is to say. 1 year longer than the previous limitation period of 5 years, while in practice the 10-year limitation period is extended to a 13-year limitation period. And the Lawyers' Council believes that the need for such a drastic extension of the generally applicable limitation periods is problematic. We also have the auditors, the CSFs, who say in particular that the provisional limitation period should be described as an extension of the limitation periods, and the CSFs believe that it is unnecessary and justified on the grounds that it can be expected that a perfectly normal and operational recovery system should be able to deal with this and I actually agree with that. In the view of the CSF, there should be no doubt as to the precise date of limitation and any doubts should be clarified by legislative adjustment, so that the claimant, who has money for the benefit of the beneficiary and the recovery authority, has full assurance as to the date on which the limitation period expires. It is basically a question of whether you can automatically extend the limitation periods with the justification that it is not certain that precise information is given to the authorities when the debt is to be recovered or that in other ways you have not created an IT system that can handle these things. There are some legal problems in this and also a question of whether the establishment of IT systems should be ahead of citizens' legal certainty or common sense. And there I'm not sure the balance is exactly right. I would like to ask some questions during the committee's work, and then perhaps we could discuss among the parties whether the cut could be put differently or whether we could do things in a more sensible way. In any case, I would like to add to that. Then we have it with the pilot scheme for the cancellation of public debt, and it is then said that it is too socially vulnerable. It was something that was introduced right back to under Anders Fogh Rasmussen when he was prime minister in his time. And this is an arrangement that has been used very little, among other things. because it is said that it is targeted at socially disadvantaged people is not really targeted socially because you have to be in work for a very long time. And, of course, we have existing legislation and paragraphs that could actually be used to help the same target group. After all, what is also important in the agreement is that we have agreed that we should look at how we can improve the legislation so that we get out of the situation we have today, where there are plenty of people who have very little income and are too poor and who will never have an earthly chance of repaying their debts. Their debts must be given better opportunities to cancel, so that they can start afresh, and so that we do not have a lot of debts that are not forgiven and that we do not have an earthly chance of getting in. I think that there is a perspective in that we are looking at how we make sensible legislation. Then there are some comments, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It has also been Enhedslisten's wish, but we are sure that what comes in place of the talks we have had and the negotiations that have been held will be significantly better than the very small and very little used scheme that is here. So there will be a committee work and we will ask some questions, but of course we are in favour of a legislative proposal which follows on from a political agreement that we have helped to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503110744	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no comments. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503110756	Thank you. With this bill, we will continue to implement the agreement to strengthen the public recovery that we entered into in June 2017. As several speakers have said, it is not a secret that the recovery of debts to the public sector has been very inadequate. In fact, it has not worked and it is, of course, a huge problem that we need to resolve. One of the major reasons for this is that, over the years here in the Danish Parliament, we have adopted very complex legislation in the field of taxation, which has made it very difficult to digitise recovery, and that is what is very much in focus with this bill, i.e. a simplification of legislation so that it will be easier to recover debts to the public sector in the future. Then, as others have said, I am glad that there has been a broad majority in the Folketing in order to resolve these problems. But I simply cannot help being irritated by this unbelievable shift of responsibility on the part of the opposition parties. We cannot discuss this issue without mentioning when the EFI was implemented and that the blame should be placed on former ministers. I just couldn't talk about it because we weren't even in the Folketing then, but I just think it's so unsightly when I could have picked up a list of quotes from the previous Social Democratic government, where you backed this and where you defended cutting down the SKAT and reducing the number of employees, etc. But that's politics, of course, we take that along, but I just don't think it's very pretty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503110945	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503110952	Thank you. In the alternative, of course, we also support the agreement we reached to strengthen recovery in the public sector. We had a demand when we went into these discussions, and it had probably come true anyway, although we had not gone along with it, but we thought it was important to be involved precisely in taking responsibility for the fact that we made good progress with the SKAT. So we're really happy that these investments are being made too to the extent that the government and the tax minister have been advocating. Our demand was for a tax commission to be set up which, like my former rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, pointed out, did not place responsibility on any party color or block, but found out what had actually happened, what we could learn from, and that it was ensured when we then invest as massively as we choose to do, that it would be good investment that would then also solve the problems forward-looking. It is our clear view that this is what we are doing, so we support the proposal. I will make two cuts which I think are of an enlightening and significant nature. 1) We could actually ensure much greater transparency in the choices we make when purchasing systems, including in this area. After all, we have access to information about precisely the systems that we buy when we sit here as members of parliament and are on the Committee on Taxation. I can only say that I am full of confidence in relation to the arrangements made by the Ministry and the Minister of Taxation. It's from what I can see, best practice when you go shopping. We have buyers and sellers sitting close to each other, we work agile, and you actually do everything you need to create the right conditions to be able to use systems forward-looking. The problem of how one is not more open about how the process is actually in the public eye too. So how the purchases are made and how the work is done can be due to a fear, and there may be all sorts of political reasons why one is then looked at in the cards and that the hammer falls heavier when something goes wrong. But imagine if we were to stand together in all the parties to say that when we buy in large IT systems when we develop, there will be mistakes there, otherwise we will not test the barriers and opportunities well enough. So maybe we could create a little more openness. Then it would also be easier to say when mistakes happen again, also in SKAT's IT systems: Yes, but both the Minister and the elected colleagues had actually done everything they could, at that time with the best possible knowledge and with the expertise of the professionals. That does not excuse it, but it explains it, and then we can work on without having to fight for the right of mockery. This was something we could actually do in many areas, I think. The transparency of the choices we make will really just ensure that there is also greater respect for the work we deliver. So we're happy to be in the deal and I think I got the two points connected to one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503111233	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503111242	There is no doubt that it is a very big problem for the whole of the Folketing and for the whole of our society and also for the social model we have chosen, namely the welfare society, that the tax administration has been so bad at making sure that the money that we have decided in here that people have to pay in taxes is recovered. After all, it reduces confidence, it reduces the Community's ability to avoid paying their taxes and taxes because they are simply not being called in and are not being controlled. We all agree on that. I would like to thank the government and the tax minister for taking this very seriously and both investing money, but also investing time in meeting with the parties of the Danish Parliament and finding solutions to both, as the Alternativet's rapporteur said, making a tax commission, but also by making the bill we have here, and also finding money to invest in both new IT systems and more employees so that it can work in contrast to previous ones. We also support this bill in the Radical Left. We are in the agreement, like all other parties, and it is a legislative proposal that needs to make the legislation simpler so that it becomes easier to create an IT system that can demand the money, so SKAT, for example. may deduct income tax if a person has forgotten to pay a tax or a fine elsewhere and that this can be done automatically. It is a very good idea to try to make legislation in such a way that it becomes easier to implement. This is perhaps something we should consider doing in even more areas here in the Folketing. However, we certainly support the draft law and thank everyone for their cooperation in making the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503111432	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503111441	It is said that victory has many fathers, but that defeat is orphaned, and that is not how it should be in this matter. That is also why I am pleased that we are so many parties who take responsibility for what happened to the tax administration over a long time, over many different ministers and government periods, and that from one end of the room to the next we go together to say that there must be a robust tax system in one country. Whether you're the Liberal Alliance or the SF, you think there should be. It is also, as previous rapporteurs have said, a question of fairness and fairness, so that people know that there is equality before the law and that what is to be collected and it is politically determined in here what the level should be. Then there is another discussion, a political disagreement, about what our tax rates should be. But it is not just an economic problem that there have been so many problems in the SKAT. In the end, it also became a democratic problem because confidence in our common institutions is falling and has been falling and being too low during that period. A great many of us have a responsibility for this. However, I would also say that when I think back I have been the tax rapporteur since 2011 on that period, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, before we realized how much problems there really were in this area, the big tax policy discussion was not whether there were enough resources in the SKAT, but it was whether the SKAT was too embittered, too aggressive, too much after some who had to pay the SKAT. There were a number of high-profile cases. It is just to say that the agenda can change very quickly and well for that. There has to be a fairness and a sense of propriety in it, but we also have to say that SKAT was starved to a great extent because one had an over-optimistic view of what digitalisation could do and before it was clear with the EFI. And again, many of us are responsible for that, and we have also taken it on board, I believe. That is why it is also all the parties in the Danish Parliament that support the efforts of the Minister of Taxation to restore SKAT, both for the sake of having money in the box to run a welfare society, but to an even greater extent, and more importantly, to ensure support for the social model we have chosen. I'm also used to it's a tradition to praise the tax minister from the platform when we discuss this, and I'm going to do that today too. I think we have a good tax minister in this area. However, I would also like to say that I agree with my colleague from the Enhedslisten that we are not in a position to secure resources for tax control. We are constantly getting updates on how relatively few percentages are being taken for control, and I believe that none of us today can guarantee that there will be no new cases that simply leave because there is too little control. But what we are talking about today is precisely the agreement we have made on the recovery of debts and also the cancellation of debts. I would also like to mention just two points in that agreement. When we made the deal, it was an overall deal. Now we see it quite concretely in the draft law and with the comments. However, I have also noticed that several consultation responses point to this with limitation periods. Is there legal certainty in understanding and defining them, in other words how precise are they and are they too long? I hope we can discuss that too. In any case, we will also bring it up in the committee's work. The same applies to debt cancellation, i.e. the understanding we had when we made the agreement, namely that on the one hand it does not make sense to spend a lot of resources on recovering any debt that cannot be recovered because people do not have the economic opportunities for it, but on the other hand to find the right group we want to help. That is also why we said in the agreement that there are, therefore, some groups from which we must, of course, try to recover from the sense of justice and legal certainty, but on those who do not really and legitimately have the ability to pay, we will not focus our energy. There's no need for that. And there, I think, there is no understanding of how the bill is quite precisely implemented. However, the SF will vote in favour and, of course, support the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503111939	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503111950	Thank you. In other words, I can support a great deal of what has been said by the previous rapporteurs. There is no doubt that there have been great challenges with SKAT, and the way to rebuild the Danes' confidence in SKAT is long. But that's the way we're going to take another step on today with this bill. One of the things that has been quite a challenge in relation to the EFI is that legislation in the field of taxation has been very complicated. After all, the legislative proposal that we are now looking at quite specifically is about simplifying the rules so that we can ensure more effective recovery in the future, which can be more easily supported by IT, so that we do not end up in a similar situation in the future. All other things being equal, it is unfortunate that legislation has been drawn up that is so complex that you cannot actually develop an IT system that can support the legislation. I do not want to go into the details, because I think the previous rapporteurs have done quite well, but I just want to say that on the conservative side we are very happy that we are standing together across the Folketing, in all the parties of the Folketing, because it is important that we do this clean-up work properly, so that we create the best possible and broadest possible foundation for looking forward and rebuilding what we think is most important, namely the Danes' trust in SKAT. It's actually trust in SKAT, which it's crucial that we get recreated now. In Denmark we have a society where we pay a fairly high tax, we think, and then we also think it is important that as a citizen we have confidence that everyone contributes and pays what they should in tax. In fact, we think this is at the heart of a trust-based tax system. Trust has been broken and it will also be a long, tough move to have it restored, but with the bill we are now discussing, we are taking a small step on that path in terms of restoring confidence. This is something that we in the Conservative People's Party think is really important. So, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503112157	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so now it is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503112208	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for the positive reception of the bill. As Minister for Taxation, I am very pleased that all parties support the proposal, because the proposal is essential for the proper functioning of the proposal, but also for effective recovery, where recovery is legally and legally soundly carried out. There was also strong support for the legislative proposal that we adopted on 29 March last year, which was the first simplification proposal in the area of recovery. As I have said many times before, it is neither right nor right for other citizens to have to pay for those who do not pay their debts to the public. As you know, this has also been mentioned by several rapporteurs as one of the reasons why the Common Recovery System, with the abbreviation EFI, did not function flawlessly or did not function at all, that the system should take into account a large number of special rules and a complex regulatory framework adopted by the Danish Parliament, taking into account many other things, other than that it could be supported by IT. Of course, we have taken down the learning process of a new recovery system. The government, together with all the parties of the Folketing on 8 June last year, concluded an agreement to strengthen public debt recovery, and it was here that we agreed that it is an essential condition for the establishment of effective debt recovery that these further simplifications of recovery legislation are made, so that we have some legislation that can be supported in terms of IT. Following this, we are therefore proposing a series of legislative initiatives designed to ensure the basis for a safe, legal and effective future recovery of public debt. As I have said, we have already adopted the first law which simplifies recovery legislation. Now we have gone further with the development of the IT system for recovery, and on this basis we propose regulatory simplifications that help to support the new and now more developed IT system. The draft law that we are dealing with today thus creates clearer and far more digitalisable and unambiguous rules for obsolescence and therefore also rules aimed at avoiding problems with data errors. It sounds boring, and perhaps it is also for those who had to follow the audience or out behind the television screens, but it is absolutely essential to make recovery work. In the future, there may also be a need to put forward other legislative proposals aimed at supporting the further development of the new IT system while contributing to the efficient administration of the area of recovery. I would also like to mention that the draft law is not alone. The parties to the agreement and the government have also agreed on some changes to the notice in this area, and this is about an increase in the upper limit of the percentage of the amount to be recovered by means of wage maintenance, a change that was agreed and which is about the fact that if you make a lot of money, we can withhold more of the money than with the announcement that is in force today. This is a quite reasonable change in the recovery rules and the recovery notice. With those words, I would like to thank you for the good reception of the draft law and to acknowledge the good course of negotiations and the process we have had leading to the agreement we reached last year. I am also looking forward to a constructive committee reading in addition to any questions that may be put to me here today. If I may comment briefly, the first thing I would like to comment on is something that the Socialist rapporteur was not told, but, as I know, the Social Democrats are concerned. Therefore, allow me to comment on it, and that is that there has been a request from the Social Democratic Party and I think it was also made by the Enhedslisten and a number of other parties in relation to the scheme for the socially vulnerable that we are now abolishing and where we have agreed that we need to find a new arrangement. There has been a desire from the Social Democratic Party that we should find this arrangement as soon as possible, and I would like to make that commitment. We are working in the Ministry of Taxation on high pressure to knit another arrangement together so that in the next Assembly we can legislate and replace the arrangement that we have today, which does not work and does not make much sense, and which is also quite difficult to support in administrative and IT terms, and which we are now removing with the bill here, and we are getting a good compensation for it, which can actually help some socially vulnerable to write off their debts. So I would like to give that commitment both to the Social Democracy and to the other parties that have raised the issue. Then the Enhedslisten and Mr. Rune Lund is a question of obsolescence and also raises a legal flag in relation to it, and that is a concern that I myself have had. I would like to delve a little deeper into that issue and actually call on Mr. Rune Lund to put some questions to the bill, and then, when we have an enlightened basis, we can decide whether the right balance has been found in relation to this further access to making obsolescence-breaking features when a claim moves from a claimant, it could be a municipality or DSB, for example. in relation to a fine for not having solved the ticket, over to the tax administration, and whether there are some legal challenges in relation to the powers we give here. I think we should look at this in committee. Finally, I would like to express my thanks for the nice words both from the SF rapporteur and also from the rapporteur of the Radicals in relation to my role as tax minister, and I call for it to be extended to the rest of the parliamentary parties. The last one was joking, but I'd like to sign for a good first reading of this bill and a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503112804	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503112819	The debate is open. Sir. Per Husted, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503112834	Thank you, Mr President. L 227 is the implementation of part of the business package of November 2017, which aims to make it more attractive for companies to invest in research and development, and this must be done by increasing the deduction for corporate research and development expenditure. Specifically, it is raised from 100 per cent. at 110%. over a number of years up to 2026. It provides less revenue each year after reflows and the behaviour that will come about, and it is estimated to cost around 450 million. kr. annual when the law is fully phased in in 2026. But that is good, because we need to do more research in Denmark; research and development are crucial if Denmark is to be at the forefront of international competition. More research leads to innovation and progress in Danish companies. We must therefore create good incentives and we fully support this bill. In fact, from the Social Democratic side, we made a similar proposal back in 2017, proposing to increase the deduction for experimental and research companies. We long called for negotiations on the growth package that this is part of, but it was our negotiators' clear experience when it came to the end that the government was not interested in a broad agreement. We think that would have been best if it were something that extends over a long period of time. But we are in favour of the government ending up with an agreement and now putting forward this part which we can fully support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113018	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Rune Lund, just a moment, sir. Per Husted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113026	I also noticed back in March 2017 that the Social Democracy would make such a deduction. I am a little surprised, in fact, because with the way this deduction is made, it will very much benefit the research departments of some very large companies, and they already have a lot of research activities, so you have to ask yourself whether they would not have implemented it anyway. The government's proposal is, in fact, less comprehensive than the Social Democratic proposal; what the Social Democratic Party had to offer was, in fact, a greater tax rebate for some of the largest companies in Denmark. The reason why I find it a little interesting to dwell on whether this is a sensible proposal is because, among other things, when companies are asked what is their barrier to investing in research and development, two thirds of them answer that they do not experience significant barriers, and those who are in agreement with the fact that there are significant barriers say that the majority is due to internal conditions, among other things. Something like being able to recruit the right employees. And we can also see that companies are planning on going all by themselves before this proposal is adopted to increase their investments. So what exactly is the purpose of granting a tax rebate when it seems that companies themselves do not see it as a barrier that the tax credit is not greater than it already is?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113146	I am not directly aware of the studies to which the questioner refers, but other studies show, of course, that when an incentive like this is given, then the desire to do research increases. As far as the larger companies are concerned, it is probably a fact that larger companies, in particular, have large research budgets. There we must also look at the fact that we are in international competition, including on that point. However, I think that this is an area we need to discuss further and that we need to look at whether there are other things that can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113223	Yes, because we can see that companies already intend to increase the funds they spend on research and development, and when they are asked themselves, among other things. in this release from the Minister for Education and Research • this is so for 2015, and it is not exactly the same in the latest release that concerns 2017 • they say that tax matters do not matter very much. What is also important in this context is that part of the funding for this new tax rebate, which will primarily benefit these large companies, among other things. comes from making cuts on DSB, which, of course, goes beyond public transport and the green transition. Money is also taken from the room, which could have been used for welfare in the municipalities. So why is it just as wise for the Social Democrats to be included in this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113312	In other words, we ourselves have made a proposal in the past which is similar to that of financing other than what is happening here; we are not part of the growth package itself, but we can fully support this part. We agree that overall funding could be better, but we think it is very important to send a signal to companies, to business that we would very much like more research. So we're all in on this part, but we're not in on the overall growth package.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113343	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113348	Thank you. What just got me out of the chair was the rapporteur's talk about international competition. And I very much agree with the rapporteur that this is, of course, about tax competition, in other countries that have introduced a high deduction on research, and of course we have to attract research to Denmark. But what is the rapporteur's position on tax competition in general, in other words to attract companies? And here I am thinking, for example. on such things as corporate tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113414	Tax competition, I think, is a pretty unpleasant word. And I think it's a long way from this debate, and that's why I'm gonna stick to the game that's here. And what corporate tax should be or should not be, I will leave it to another forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113435	Sir. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113438	Thank you for your answer. But when I look at this, I think it is first and foremost important to attract research to Denmark. It was also my understanding of the Social Democrats' proposal to increase this deduction to 125%. Therefore, my question is just whether it is only in this area that you will try to attract jobs to Denmark or whether it is more general. And here, of course, I am also thinking of such things as corporate tax and other things that can help attract companies to Denmark and how the Social Democrats stand in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113513	I think that when we talk about corporation tax, it is quite important to note that in the public debate it sounds as if it is very, very high in Denmark. I think it is important to say here that corporate tax in Denmark is 22 per cent. And if we compare with other countries, we do not actually have a corporation tax that is significantly different from others. It is actually lower than the countries with which we would otherwise like to compare ourselves. I do not know whether it is Bulgaria or anyone else that we should compare ourselves with. However, a general tax reduction does not exactly promote research. And that is what we are dealing with here, and that is what I think we should deal with in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113553	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113605	There's nothing like a free round. I think there are many Danes who would think it would be nice to have a beer when they are out with friends, or get something to eat when they are at the café. The reason I say this is that I have noticed now that we have dealt with part of the legislative proposals on initiatives from the growth package, that so far the Social Democrats have voted in favour of them all. One might then wonder why they are not included in the agreement. But it is because they do not want to be involved in the funding. So you like the free round. It's nice to be able to praise all the measures when they go to the vote, but when you had to pay the bill, you didn't think it was so exciting to be part of it. This is the implementation of the agreement on the business package, which DF is part of. This applies both to the good measures and to the funding. We think it is a good agreement and also the measures that we are dealing with here very specifically, namely to increase the deduction for research and development expenditure. This will be gradually increased from 2018 until 2026, when the deduction will then be at 110%. The reason has already emerged from the debate, but that is because we want to give a greater incentive to research and develop, which will be extremely positive for our companies, as this will of course lead to new products and perhaps new businesses. But it will also result in increased productivity and more Danish jobs. Then there is also the element in it that many of our neighbouring countries actually have a similar deduction. So it's also about how we want to attract companies to Denmark, that we can also offer a good framework for research and development in Denmark. We think that is very positive, and that is why we can, of course, support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113741	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113755	Thank you. As has already been said, the legislative proposal we are discussing now is part of the business and entrepreneurial package that we entered into together with the Danish People's Party and the Radicals, and this is about increasing the deduction for experimental and research activities and providing a greater tax credit. We're gradually raising it to 2026 from 100 percent. at 110%. We have then reached an agreement with the Social Democratic Party and the SF to bring it forward. We are very happy to be able to do so, because then we will have the joys even faster. It should be one of the things that helps us to get more research and competitiveness in the Danish companies. So we think this is a very good bill that strengthens Denmark. That is why the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113836	There's a comment. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113840	What are Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's comments on the fact that when you ask companies what barriers exist for their research and development activities, then tax deductions or tax arrangements are very low on the list? Among other things, you can... see it when you read an analysis like this one, which is a DI analysis that has been published here recently, Denmark back on the knowledge track. There they have also asked what the barriers are, and the things that are highest, are quite different from the tax situation. That is, for example, the case. access to qualified labour. How can the Left be sure that this will not just be a tax rebate for some particular companies? it could be the pharmaceutical industry in Denmark • that they can then benefit from, but as such will not lead to more research and development? It would simply be channelling some money into some large companies, which already make a great deal of money, while that money could have been going to improve the standards in kindergartens or to hire some more nurses in the country's hospitals, for example. really need more nurses.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503113955	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund mentioned several different issues, so I start with that, as Mr. Rune Lund started with: What is the biggest barrier for companies? I believe that there are many barriers for companies. I think that this qualified labour issue is a very important one, and I would be extremely happy if Enhedslisten would help us to raise that agenda, because we have a problem with the fact that we cannot get labour into Denmark to a very great extent because the limit has been raised. So it could be really nice if Enhedslisten would be part of it. Compared to the fact that this is for the benefit of companies that are already investing in this, I would say: like with a lot of other tax tools, there can be a huge loss of dead weight, and there will also be a loss of dead weight here. What a dead weight loss is all about is people getting a deduction from something they'd do anyway. But there will also be a gain, and there is no doubt that there will be. There will be a gain, because there will be more research, and that is the way forward for the Danish companies. So I am absolutely convinced that it will have a positive effect on Denmark's competitiveness and on Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114051	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114054	The companies already have a 100 per cent tax credit today, so why should it be increased to 110%?? If it were up to the Social Democratic Party, it would have been 130%, which some of the big companies should have had in tax rebates. I'm incredibly surprised. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you take the figures in this DI analysis that I mentioned just now, it's just over 15%. of the companies asked, who say that deduction for research and development activities is unattractive in Denmark. That's what 15% say. Then there is a slightly larger figure which says that it is to some extent, and then there are about 60% who say: Well it doesn't matter at all. It is certainly an indicator among many that this is not a real problem, and that perhaps this is really just about wanting to give some companies that already make big money... it could be the pharmaceutical industry... an extra tax rebate. Is that really what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114150	Absolutely not on the Left side. When we were in a purely V government, we proposed a completely different type of deduction for research expenditure, which was much more targeted, but there was no majority for that. And now we are in a government where there are many of us, and now our proposals look different, and that always reflects when you are more together what you agree on. So I want to say that we can easily measure this because it is moving in the right direction and it is some of the things that help businesses. But I kind of think that when Mr. Rune Lund raises the problem of qualified labour for companies, Mr. Rune Lund also be ready to do something about it and help us that companies get the manpower they need. We do not have enough hands in Denmark, we need them to get more into the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114231	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114234	As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned, there is rarely a free lunch or a free lunch anywhere, which is why it is important to talk about funding. We weren't in the deal, tried to bid, but there was too long way to go on several points. Could I not have the rapporteur elaborate on this lasting financing requirement of 450 million? kr.? How are we supposed to finance it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114257	I mean, if it's that mister... René Gade expects me to come here with a larger figure from the platform, he is wrong, because I think it is better for a written question, because I do not want to go into that at all, and I do not have so many documents at all, so I can look up exactly what the figures say in different places. So I think that is better suited to a written question to the tax minister and not an oral question to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114316	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114318	That's quite fair. I'm also asking just to get the perspective, because the purpose of this seems to me to be excellent. Intensify research, strengthen companies or strengthen research through a greater traction to get companies to invest is only good, but that is precisely where we take the cake piece from, and that is one of the reasons why we cannot say yes from the point of view of the alternative, but I can talk about that more from the platform. It's fine that we take it in writing afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114345	Thank you. So there are no more comments if there is no answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114355	It is fair enough that there are different reasons, and I always think that it is when agreements are made. However, for us it is actually quite essential to improve the ability of companies to achieve greater competitiveness. We can just as well see that we have a dead race in relation to getting some skilled labour for Denmark, and then we have to look at other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114411	Thank you. It could be that the answer gave rise to more comments. But it didn't, so now there are no more comments. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114436	With this bill, it is proposed that the deduction for private companies' costs of experimental and research activities should be increased gradually from the present 100 per cent. deducted at 110 per cent when fully phased in from 2026 onwards. This is then part of the business and growth package that was concluded in November last year. Our position at the time and now, and in the discussions that have taken place, is that there is already a deduction of as much as 100 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. It is a very, very intense state aid to research and development companies in the private sector, and we can also say that the way in which research and development costs are distributed today is that it is primarily the very, very large companies that benefit from this. This is true, for example. companies such as Novo or Danfoss, which should, as such, be able to carry out this task without having an additional deduction on top of the very large deduction that is already there. We just don't think it makes sense to spend so much money on this deduction. And when you ask the companies, and the Danish Industry, and the government does so in various publications, about what the barriers to investing in research and development are, the different things answer: It may be access to finance, it may be access to the right type of employees and many other things. But the tax issue itself, namely whether the tax credit is not too high or too low, is incredibly small in those statements. When you ask companies what their barriers are, it is not the tax issue that is at the top, and therefore it has also been a little strange to follow the debate, as it has been led by the Social Democratic Party too, which would introduce a 130 per cent deduction, which would really be the case with some companies like Novo, which already have a billion earnings, but now it has ended at 110 per cent. But it has been strange to follow the debate as if this deduction should be given because it would lead to a lot more research, and it was given in advance, but it is just not something that one can argue from when one looks at the studies, the interview surveys and the data on which it is based. We can also see that the costs that Danish companies spend on research and development are in the absolute highest international level. We are at the top of the list and it has remained stable, and if you ask companies at the moment what they are going to do, whether they are going to invest more in research and development, they say yes, because then two thirds of companies will say that they will do so, that is to say, invest even more. So a great deal is already happening in this area, and even more is going to happen even before this proposal is adopted, where money that could have been spent on our welfare, more nurses in hospitals, more teachers in kindergartens, more primary school teachers in primary school, is then used to make a tax relief for some companies that already earn billions. It is also important, I think, to mention in this connection that the business and growth package is financed by a large number of deteriorations, because the money for this comes, among other things, by cutting DSB, cutting public transport and hence also the green conversion, and then we also see that some of the funding comes from the room for manoeuvre. The council room is, of course, the money that, among other things. It has been created by the fact that we have seen a large number of reductions in early retirement, where it is virtually impossible to obtain an early retirement pension today, even if there is absolutely no working capacity, we have seen reductions in unemployment benefits and cash benefits in recent years, and it has given some revenue to the Treasury that many people who are ill, who are so unlucky that they are ill or unemployed, have had to pay for the crisis and the deterioration. In this respect, it was repeatedly promised by a great many parties that the deterioration would lead to a room for manoeuvre which would be used to ensure welfare, and when one sees that the room for manoeuvre is being used to give a tax rebate to companies which already earn a lot of money and which already have a deduction in advance, I honestly think it is hypocritical and that it is just not right. One thing has been told to the Danish people, and when the money is to be spent, you do another thing. So if anyone is in doubt, I can at least say that Enhedslisten is not going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114914	I would say that a word such as the jugs probably goes beyond the limits of what we are saying here from the speaking chair of the Folketing. Here you go, sir. Per Husted, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503114922	Thank you. In fact, I am a little sad on behalf of the people's regime when I hear Enhedslisten's speeches here, mixing research and development with what is given to schools and kindergarten. After all, research is the prerequisite for us to be able to afford these things. And when you take Novo Nordisk, as I know, the biggest taxpayer in the kingdom, as an example, I am so sorry that you do not see the context in which we have to have a strong business community that so researches and develops and that this is a targeted tax incentive to research. The whole of the rapporteur's argument is based on a few analyses where other analyses show that it is clearly conducive to investment. Will the rapporteur not recognise that by sending a signal to the business community that they must do more research and that we show that we support them, it helps to secure the jobs of the future that we must have, and thus that we can afford the welfare that we fortunately very much agree that we should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115035	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115037	I do not think it has been documented that this tax rebate should lead to more research and development. After all, we have a situation in which, fortunately, the level is very high, including internationally. It has remained stable and companies say they want to invest more. I do not think that this tax rebate will lead to more research and development on the basis of the reports and documentation we have received. So it's just that you have to ask yourself the question, because the money can only be used once: If they are sent off as a tax discount to Novo Nordisk or Danfoss, can they not go to a municipality to hire more home helpers in home care? So if there is not the link that the tax debate should lead to more research and development, which I do not believe has been proven, I think that the Social Democrats have a very bad cause.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115127	Here you go, sir. Per Husted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115129	[Sound emission]... mostly the government's proposal, and that we have then been out with a similar earlier where we had it fully funded in that proposal. I still have it to say, and we can discuss whether this works, we can do it, and there we can, of course, have a better look at how it works, that we think we have a proof that it works. That is why we have to act on it. And we can say that the prerequisite for affording it, Enhedslisten also wants to be involved in about welfare, is that Denmark researches and develops, and that we are skilled and send a signal to the companies that we want it. I would like the rapporteur to acknowledge that what we are building on is that it works. I understand that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten believes that it does not work to give support in this way. My question is: is it not true that if we research and develop more, it will give more money in the Treasury in the longer term?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115228	But is it really true that it is the tax debate that causes companies to research and develop more? That is the whole question. There says the Social Democrats, that's how I heard them, that's how you think it's gonna do it. But I have not heard that there has been any factual argument that this should be the case. When we see that when companies are asked, they answer that there are quite different barriers than that no tax credit is given, and then we are a little over in such a general tax debate. That's the subject too, sir. Anders Johansson actually traveled: if it is a question of giving tax rebates for more research and development, why not just lower corporate tax? That's it, sir. Anders Johansson asked. That's the problem with this. Then the Social Democrats say that it is targeted research and development, but in essence it is a tax rebate which there is no evidence whatsoever of should lead to more research and development.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115314	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115325	Thank you. This proposal to introduce a research and development allowance will gradually be increased to 110%. In 2026, as others have said, is part of the business package that was adopted together with the government, DF and Radicals. I will not hide the fact that in the Liberal Alliance we have never been the great supporters of this research and development allowance. We support the proposal, of course, because it is part of a package that is really, really good, but it will not take long to google what we have said about this deduction in the past either. So it is not such an idea that has grown in our gardens, even though we in this way fully share the intention of reducing the tax on companies, so that it becomes more attractive for them to invest in new machinery and new capital and also in research. We would have preferred this to be done by means of a general reduction in corporation tax, as we have little difficulty in understanding and finding it reasonable that some companies' costs should have a higher tax value than those of other companies. However, as I said, we naturally support the proposal. As I have said, we would have preferred to have seen a general reduction in corporation tax, which is actually high in Denmark. When you compare with other countries of Denmark's size, we are actually on the high end. And that's what you have to do. You shouldn't compare Denmark with Germany. It is a large economy with a large market in which it is attractive to be on its own. Denmark is a small, open economy, and we must make it attractive for companies to establish themselves in Denmark, be in Denmark, and therefore we should lower corporate tax, which is ultimately paid by employees in companies through lower real wages. But, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115537	Thank you. One question, Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115542	I would like the rapporteur to give some thought to what the Liberal Alliance's position is on this. I would also like to hear a comment on some of the information you can read, for example. reading a report from some people that I think must be close to the Liberal Alliance, Danish Industry, and they write that when you ask companies that this with deduction does not actually take up much, compared to what makes them decide to increase or lower the cost of research and development. Is this going to pay something? Does it matter, or is it really a waste of money?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115627	It is clear that not all companies have research costs. Therefore: If you ask the companies, it is not certain that all of them will answer that this is the way forward. That is why we would also like to see a general reduction in corporation tax, because from such a fair point of view we also think that companies, whatever they do, should be treated equally. That is why we are a little concerned about the fact that there are some companies' costs which must have a higher tax value than other companies' costs. But I actually think it's gonna blow something. Thus there are analyses that show that it can have a positive effect. It can be a little difficult to define. But it will probably also be a subject: what exactly is research expenditure? It has to be defined very precisely. But I think, too, sir. Rune Lund is a little bit selective. When Mr. Rune Lund is criticizing this proposal on the basis of an analysis from Danish Industry, it should perhaps have been mentioned that Danish Industry is a strong supporter of a general reduction in corporate tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115738	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115740	I'm aware of that. This is not the Enhedslisten, we do not believe that tax competition is the way forward. But I'd like to follow up on that. Is it to be understood that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen actually thinks it is a little unfair to make a tax credit which really benefits some large companies that you spend all the money on it instead of actually spending it on companies in general? Is that part of the argument put forward by Mr. Joachim B. Olsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115809	As I said, we support this proposal because it is part of an overall package that is really, really good. That is how it is when you make agreements; then there are some elements you are really happy about, and some elements you are a little less happy about. If we had had 90 seats, we wouldn't have introduced this. Then we would have made a much greater general reduction in corporate tax. I have never understood that Enhedslisten could not support this, as corporate tax is indirectly paid by employees through lower real wages. A reduction of corporation tax to 12%. would result in an immediate loss of revenue for the Treasury of 22 billion. kr., but after behavior only at 13 billion. kr. This means that companies would have to pay 22 billion. kr. less, but only 13 billion had to be financed. kr. From in here. This is an expression of the fact that there is a huge socio-economic loss associated with corporate tax. But yes, we had lowered corporate tax in general, but this proposal is part of an overall agreement that is very good and that we have no problems supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503115910	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more comments. Then I'll postpone the meeting until 8:00. 13.00. The first rapporteur is then Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130000	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received notification of the recent government change of 2 May 2018. The message will be printed in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). Following my recommendation, it has been decided by the Royal Resolution of 2 May 2018 that, in the grace of Minister for Fisheries and Gender and Minister for Nordic Cooperation Karen Ellemann, Commander of the Order of Dannebrog, from the previously entrusted ministerial post, dismissed in the grace of the Minister for Environment and Food Esben Lunde Larsen, Commander of the Order of Dannebrog, from his previously entrusted ministerial post, to appoint former Minister, Member of the Folketing, Eva Kjer Hansen, Commander of the Order of Dannebrog, Minister for Fisheries and Gender and Minister for Nordic Cooperation, to appoint a member of the Danish Parliament Jakob Ellemann-Jensen as Minister for the Environment and Food, to appoint entrepreneur and member of the Government's Board of Disruption Tommy Ahlers to Minister for Education and Research. I would ask the President to inform Parliament accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130023	We are continuing the examination of the draft law, and in the series of rapporteurs we have reached Mr Beazley's report. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130035	Thank you. In the alternative, we are actually very much in agreement with the intention, and there are also several rapporteurs who have spoken in favour of the fact that we want to support both business and research, and that is also what underpins our entire welfare system, namely that we have it under control. In the negotiations on this growth package, we were able to be brief, but at least that was well-intentioned on our part. We also saw a good response to what we said. We just couldn't meet in the end. That was among other things. because of the financing of the growth package. We thought that this was a way to cut the cake, which we, as Denmark today, could not quite support. This is among other things. And what's going on with this bill? Without mixing pears and bananas together and saying that one clearly depends on the other, I would say in any case that as far as tax relief is concerned to companies compared with this reduction from 100 per cent. At 110%, we have to think very carefully about the alternative before we say yes. Because we really wanted to support research and support companies that want to invest in research, but we think it is unclear what may be defined as research-oriented purposes, i.e. whether that is specific enough. We don't think it is. There I have a task to do in committee to ask whether we could find a framework that would enable us to support the proposal. I do not think we can, because I remember what I said when we were in the negotiations. I think I said okay. to this point, if otherwise the frame was more clearly defined. That's not where we could meet. There must of course be confidence that both companies and we in the Danish Parliament have a purpose which will then be matched by some actions. There we can just say that no matter how much we put in the hands of companies with confidence in what they intend to do, there are ways in our view to support both research and the competitiveness of companies, and there is, above all, the argument that we find it difficult to attract labour from outside. That is the only thing I would just like to be a little critical of in the treatment that has been done so far. In other words, if we want to ensure that workers enter from outside the country's borders, there are certainly other ways we can act as a country, both in terms of the way we treat those who come here and in terms of the way we talk about them. I think that is actually quite crucial. So that is the only point of such obvious criticism where I disagree at least that it is part of the argument. We can create research schemes, we can do everything else, as long as it is just targeted precisely research, and as long as it is something that benefits companies and therefore also our entire welfare community. It must not just be tax cuts that we do not really have in mind, i.e. what kind of framework they actually support. There I have a job to do in committee to find out if we can adapt it here so that it is sharp enough for us to be able to support such a relaxation for companies to make use of research. I think so at the moment. We can't, but I have an obligation to try.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130332	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130341	In the Radical Left, we have a view of tax policy that we will help to lighten a tax or tax if we believe that it also helps to create something for the Community. We think it is too much in tax policy to lighten a tax so that a citizen or a group of citizens can get a little more money between their hands. We are not interested in that, but we can be involved in it if we believe that it also gives something to the community. That is our social liberal approach to the discussions we have. Apart from that, of course, it is also crucial where the money comes from, because it is not the case that it is an end in itself to lighten the tax if the money is found in an inappropriate way. We support this bill and are part of the agreement behind it. We believe that this relief can help get companies to develop and invest in research and development of new products in Denmark. It may be both a new activity, but it may also be maintaining an activity that is already in the country. In this way, this helps to maintain and create jobs in Denmark, which everyone gets something out of not just the companies in relation to their bottom line. That is why we support the draft law and welcome the fact that there is a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130501	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130507	What is it that leads the Radical Left to believe that it will be a tax rebate like this one which will push further the development of corporate investment in research and development? We can see that the level is very high today, also seen internationally. We're on top. We can see that companies themselves expect them to increase their investment in research and development. We can also see, when companies are asked to deduct investment in research and development, that size is not something they have experienced as a major barrier. At least there are other things that come before that. So what exactly is it that the Radical Left is using to document that this is not just a waste of money that could have been used for other good purposes, but that it actually has an effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130608	That is quite right, as Mr. Rune Lund says that the companies would probably rather have eased corporate tax or top tax or some other things that it is true formally has more effect. But this has an effect, too. There is, of course, a fairly large deduction today, and that is probably why there are large investments today, and we would like to maintain that. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I think it was said, other countries have chosen to make more favourable deductions over recent years. Then I think it is important that we keep up, in fact, primarily in order to maintain the high level.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130648	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130652	When you ask the companies "When Dansk Industri does it" "Why the companies invest in research and development," there are all kinds of arguments that it promotes production." There are all kinds of arguments for what is related to the product you want to develop and sell and to how the situation is on the market. There is no doubt that if you are a company that has research and development activities, then it is very nice to have an extra small tax rebate. Well, who can't use it? you can ask yourself. But there is nothing when we see the publications that have come from the ministries or from the Danish Industry, which really make it clear that this is where we need to do something to really take action in relation to research and development. So when you also look at that part of this is financed by cutting back on DSB, which, after all, goes beyond public transport and the green transition, is it really such a good deal? Was this how the Radical Left would screw it up in the best of all worlds?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130756	We only have 8 seats, but if we had 82 more, we probably did something completely different. That's what I'm gonna give you, sir. Rune Lund's handshake. Then we'll just have to get another 82 seats. It's holding a little hard. I should just like to point out that there will be no fewer departures by train in Denmark because of this agreement. DSB itself has said that in ten years' time they will actually not be able to obtain subsidies from the State. So this is part of the plan that DSB has put forward to spend less money. One perspective that I think Enhedslisten should include here is that if companies develop better products, they can take a higher price, and thus they can also give their employees higher wages • it is usually something that Enhedslisten is interested in • so also those who work in companies can maintain an increasing level of pay. This requires companies to make better products, and this deduction helps to help it along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130851	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503130902	Thank you very much. After all, this is another very good legislative proposal, which comes from the big business and entrepreneurial package that we made last year. The proposal, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, is about increasing the opportunities for Danish companies to obtain a tax credit for the costs they have for research and experimental activities. The Conservative People's Party is included in both agreements, which are reflected in this bill, i.e. both the business and entrepreneurial package and saw the broad understanding of advancing the phasing-in of it. So, of course, we support the bill. Danish companies must be very good at exploiting and developing new solutions. It is in this way that new Danish business successes are created. As the world is today, a very large part of our companies are in fierce competition with other companies around the world because digitalization and automation know no boundaries. This also means that it is more important than ever that you are first mover in developing new products. One of the dogmas that apply in many industries today is that the winner takes it all. Those who are first with new technology, be it digital solutions, medicines, machines or other things, have better opportunities today than ever before to conquer the whole market, and it can go very fast. That is why we must, of course, create the best framework for tax purposes, but of course also in a large number of other areas, so that Danish companies can become even better at researching. Ultimately, it is companies and their innovative solutions, their competitiveness, that create prosperity in our society. With the increased deduction for research and development that this bill is implementing, we are increasing the financial incentives for companies to research more, and this is a very good step in the right direction, partly because it makes it more economically advantageous to allocate resources for research and development in companies, partly because it makes it more attractive for larger international companies to place their research in Denmark, because there is also international competition in this area. There are several countries that are on the field with quite large deductions to companies that place research in the respective countries. If you attract research to Denmark, it can also help attract employees with high qualifications in research and thus also support the establishment of strong professional environments and clusters in Denmark, which are competitive and which can help to develop our business community in Denmark. So, of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131153	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, we have now reached the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131203	Thank you, President. I would like to thank you for receiving the bill. I am basically of the opinion that we in Denmark must have legislation that makes it more attractive to operate in this country, or in the whole kingdom for that matter, and with this bill we are implementing one of a number of initiatives agreed by the government and the parties to the agreement behind the business and entrepreneurial package, in order to make it more attractive to operate in Denmark. And a number of these initiatives are, after all, an investor allowance, a share savings account and a reduction in a number of taxes. This proposal is then about the possibility of deducting more than the actual cost of research and development. It is already known in other countries, and therefore it is high time that Denmark could also offer attractive tax rules that can attract research-based companies. The narrow Left Government, in which I also had the pleasure of being Minister of Taxation, had a proposal that was somewhat similar to this one, which was not about introducing a general additional deduction for research and development, but a targeted deduction, which set a limit on which companies could have access to this research allowance, precisely because the challenge of research and development is greater in some of the small and medium-sized enterprises than in the large ones, which actually invest quite heavily. There was no political appetite for this proposal, and when a new government came along, there was therefore another debate on the business and entrepreneurial package, and out of it this proposal has grown, which is also a good proposal. The aim of the proposal is to gradually increase the deduction of costs attributable to the experimental and research activities of companies, and thus, as a number of rapporteurs have said, to create an incentive for companies to increase their experimental and research activities and indirectly, as a result of the hopefully helping to ensure more growth and new jobs in society or to increase the value of the jobs they have and, as a result, wages and profitability in companies. There is a link between which companies invest a great deal in research and development and which companies are productive. On top of that, it has been possible to reach an understanding with a number of parties to bring forward the impact of the increased tax credit, so that companies already have access to the high deduction from and with the income year 2018, i.e. this year. Of course, I am very pleased about that, and I note that a large number of companies have signed for and are happy about it. So in other words, I would like to thank you for the debate that has not been so much discussion and dialogue that has been in the Chamber today, and I look forward to the further examination of the bill. Hopefully it will be a constructive one of the kind, it is normal in the Tax Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131520	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131525	After all, the Minister himself says this in his speech, namely that here comes a tax credit which, if a tax credit is finally introduced, does not affect where it is really most needed, namely for small and medium-sized enterprises, where the challenge can be greatest. But here everyone just gets a bigger deduction. And when we know where it is that is mainly invested in research and development, for example. at Novo Nordisk as a major top scorer, well then we can also figure out where most of the tax debate here will probably go, at least in crowns and ears, for some very, very large companies. When the Minister of Taxation himself points out in his speech that the tax credit will be paid if one agrees at all on the idea that there should be a tax credit claim, how does the Minister of Taxation feel about it? Is that a smart way to spend taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131619	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131621	In other words, I certainly think the proposal here is a smart way of spending taxpayers' money. In my optics, it would have been even smarter to do what the previous government proposed, but we just have to note that it has been criticised, including by some of the parties that are now part of the government. That's the way it is in politics. There are some compromises within the government, and when you do not have the majority, you also have to make compromises with the people you negotiate with. And then, when you get to the finish line, you have to look at whether it is a good compromise. It is in my optics, and that is why we have tabled the proposal. Could a better suggestion have been made? Yes, you could, but there was no majority for that in the Folketing. And I'm sorry to say that, but if I'd come to Mr. Knox's office... Rune Lund two years ago with the previous proposal, I doubt that Mr. Rune Lund would have voted for it. For most of these are not tax relief proposals that the Enhedslisten will vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131719	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131721	I can confirm this, too, by the fact that the financing of this is coming, by cutting back on DSB, and by taking money from the room, which was originally intended for welfare. So I can fully confirm that. But I also heard the tax minister say that this is going to be a deduction, which in particular will benefit some very large companies. This whole debate has been very marked by the fact that different parties believe or hope that this will lead to more investment in research and development. But when you see the publications, such as... come from the government itself, and some of the data and interview surveys that I have presented here in the debate do not really indicate that it should be a greater deduction that should seriously increase investment in research and development more than they already do. So my second question will be: is there going to be an evaluation of this at a time when you are looking at it like this: Well now we have given a tax rebate and it costs 1⁄2 billion. kr. in a year of lasting effect; did we get it out of what we wanted, or should we actually roll it back because it was money that was thrown out of the window? The latter could be believed when you see what companies actually answer when they have to answer what their barriers are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131828	When I talk to companies, and I do so quite often, they mention a number of things. And what they often mention is the tax rules, that is, the more taxation there is on companies, the more money they have to deliver and the less money they can reinvest in their business. So there is some connection in that, and that is why it has probably been welcomed. No evaluation is being made, but if it is a wish of the Danish Parliament's parties and of the Danish Parliament's tax committee to look at whether what we think will happen with this bill has happened in 2, 3 or 5 years, then I would like to make a constructive contribution to it and get the Treasury to carry out an evaluation. So I would recommend that, sir. Rune Lund to take up on the Tax Committee as part of the legislative process. After all, the parliament has the opportunity to make legislative monitoring on legislative proposals. This is rarely used, but it could be one of the proposals where law enforcement was carried out to see if the fact that we are giving a great tax advantage will lead to further investment in research and development, as all the companies say and which I believe is true. I would not object to that as a tax minister, but it is up to the Tax Committee to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131929	Then it's mr. René Gade for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503131932	Thank you for your review. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we are fully in favour of the alternative, in other words both trying to carry out tests and tax deductions. We can take part in this if it is to strengthen the competitiveness of companies, we put ourselves on proper terms and we take the right place from the cake. My question will be: what is the argument for not taking the targeted support for the companies that the tax minister set up before? I fully agree that the tax minister is at the forefront of an entire government, so it is not to say that there is something bad or better, but for us as a party that stands outside and wants to make some proposals here in committee, it would be very nice to know what the argument is for spreading it. I know that the tax minister may not think it was the most desirable, but could we just have some arguments on why the government has then chosen to come up with this broader and not the targeted solution, because it is difficult for me to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132028	One of the criticisms for which the more targeted proposal was criticised was that the complicated tax rules, that it was not fair, and that there were some large Danish companies that have the opportunity to invest in countries other than Denmark, and they would do so actively. We have then chosen to bow to that argument and to do so in general terms. I have no objection to Novo Nordisk having a tax relief or an indirect tax relief here with the proposal, all the time that Novo Nordisk is also one of those companies which, especially if you look at their turnover in Denmark, put a lot of money in the Danish Treasury. It is the company in Denmark that pays the most in corporation tax and has done so for many years, and therefore I believe that when they say that this will lead us to invest more in research and development in Denmark instead of in other countries, that is what will happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132118	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132120	We certainly do not mind that Novo Nordisk earns money and gets good conditions to work under, but I think it is a good proposal from Enhedslisten to look at an evaluation, that is, see if this investment and the part of the cake you take from our welfare society are well spent. If it is, it is commendable, but we have doubts about that in the alternative. So that was more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132142	But, as I said, you can write an evaluation into the bill... there is no immediate answer... so the Parliamentary Tax Committee can choose a number of things, and one of the things is to use the tool called law enforcement to look at when we have passed a bill, whether that is what we expect to happen when it hits reality that actually happens. Then again an invitation to discuss it in the Tax Committee and take a position. I will bow to what the Tax Committee decides. It's my experience that it's smartest as a tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132210	Sounds like a smart tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132224	We are opening the debate with the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132249	Thank you. On my part, too, a warm welcome to the new minister. We look forward to working together not to dig ditches but to dig ditches in the Social Democratic Party. When you don't have to dig ditches, it's of course a little odd to start building a fence, but we'll have to take that with us here in the first bill we have together. The bill that we are going to deal with now is part of the government's action against African swine fever. It simply empowers the Minister to build a wild boar fence along the Danish-German border to prevent African swine fever spreading from wild boar to pigs on the Danish pig farms. Since expropriation may be necessary, the bill also authorises the Minister to carry out expropriation. It is estimated in the draft law that approx. 10 million kr., which means that overall it will cost approx. 60 million kr. To build the fence. The reality is that swine fever has moved within the EU's borders. At the same time, the wild boar population is growing in Germany. We have to deal with this in Denmark. That is why we in the Socialist Group also agree that we must exercise due care and try to protect ourselves against an outbreak of African swine fever. A swine fever outbreak can have incalculable consequences for Danish exports, for Danish agriculture and for pig production at all stages. I saw Federal Secretary Per Hansen of the Food Association NNF say that it would be a disaster for the employment of their members if there were an outbreak of African swine fever in Denmark. That is why we also take the threat very seriously. From our point of view, it is crucial that the world market can have confidence that food from Denmark is both healthy and safe. That is why we must do what we can to protect ourselves from African swine fever. That's why we also support the construction of the fence. We would like to be close to the process and be able to follow it in the terms that are now around such a work. It is also to ensure that it is a cost-effective model. With those comments, I should just like to say that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132534	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and that is Mrs Lise Bech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132542	This bill is very good, and of course the Danish People's Party supports it because we are in the agreement. A wild boar fence as part of more efforts to prevent African swine fever is a good step. In these years, African swine fever is getting closer and closer to Denmark. The number of wild boars infected with African swine fever in Eastern Europe has in just 3 years more than twelvefold, so in 2017 there were almost 4,000 cases. Here in 2018, the figure is already 2,350. But in order not to worry anyone, I would just like to point out that this highly contagious viral disease does not infect humans, but it is aggressively contagious both wild and domestic. Within 5-10 days the animal becomes sick and dies, and a dead animal can infect for a very long time. For example: blood from sick animals is contagious for up to 11⁄2 years if stored at low temperatures. If it's in sausage and stuff, it can actually be contagious for up to 9 months. It is essential for our pig farming that we do not have African swine fever in Denmark. Our export markets will immediately shut down, and that is an export to third countries of around 11 billion. kr. We are talking about a year, not to mention the many jobs that we will lose, both in agriculture and in abattoirs. That is about 33,000 jobs. Critics of the wild boar fence project have stated that the fence will not prevent wild boar from crossing the border. No, the wild boar fence doesn't just do that. That's why we have several initiatives that are being taken so that we can keep African swine fever out of Denmark. Of this, the wild boar fence along the Danish-German border is one of the measures, and of course we warmly support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132747	Then there was just one request for a brief comment, Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132753	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen of the Danish People's Party has previously said that the fence could also be used to keep other than wild boars out of Denmark, and has said that he would contact the Minister for Justice to investigate how to use the new fence, so that it can also be used to strengthen border controls. Will the rapporteur confirm here that the Danish People's Party will work actively to develop the border fence so that it can act as a strengthening of border controls, and is this a line that will be supported by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132826	This fence is a wild boar fence. And I can just say that if it keeps wolves out, I have no problem with it... it would please me very much. What else is in mind, you have to talk to the Justice Department about it and those who have to do with it. I have nothing to do with it. I am interested in keeping African swine fever out of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132848	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503132902	Thank you. In Denmark we have a strong tradition of food production. We can see it on our food culture, where pork, liver patej, barbecue sausages and many, many other really good foods have a special place in the hearts and stomachs of the Danes. We take a look at the skill with which Danish farmers differ from foreign producers in terms of resource efficiency, use of antibiotics and much more: in Denmark we produce some of the world's very best foods, and they are also in demand worldwide, and we are of course very pleased about this. We also look at the global demand for Danish pork, piglets and a lot of other products. Most recently, we also saw a good result for the year 2017, when food exports have risen again, and that brings with it many new jobs, including here in Denmark, and means a lot to the whole of society. We have good reasons for protecting Danish pig production and, of course, for the entire food production as a whole. And that is precisely what we need to do right now with it, as it appears, almost uncontrolled spread of African swine fever to several EU countries. There we are faced with an increased threat, which has, of course, moved closer. African swine fever is an incredibly contagious disease and affects pigs of all breeds with high mortality rates and there are no vaccines. That is why it is also important that we act immediately, as we are doing now with this government bill, so that we do everything we can to prevent swine fever from entering the country. This is exactly what we are doing now with this government bill, with a concerted effort to combat African swine fever. The spread of the disease occurs among other things. by direct contact with infected pigs, including wild boar, or by indirect contact, allowing the disease to enter stables, etc. An important part of the effort is therefore to reduce the likelihood that wild boar carries the disease with it into Denmark, and precisely the construction of a fence along the Danish-German border, where wild boars get significantly harder to enter the country, is important. Dimensions are expected to be such that the fence will be approx. 11⁄2 m high in relation to visibility and then 1⁄2 m underground, as wild boar also has certain properties for digging. So that's the way to do it. If the disease only reaches a Danish herd, the consequences are obviously serious. In other places, whole herds have been seen to be killed and all exports to third countries stopped. This is not just about the export of pigs, but can in many cases also affect exports of other live animals and other products, which means that the socio-economic and economic consequences will, of course, be serious. There are a great many jobs and export earnings at stake, and that is why we are taking no chances. We need to take seriously the threat and these concerns and the uncertainty that exists, and with the wild boar fence that is being proposed now, we are reducing the likelihood of getting the disease into Denmark, and that is why, of course, the Left is voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133235	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133240	Thank you. Several people with knowledge of wild boars and conditions in South Jutland have said that most wild boars do not live in the area between Flensburg and Tønder, but that the wild boars live east of Flensburg and cross Flensburg Fjord to come to Denmark, as was recently seen with 14 wild boars. How does the rapporteur of the Left feel about posting 80 million? kr. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133308	Well, I've seen one of those videos, too. Whether it's the same video we've seen, I don't know, but I've been told that this video isn't from Flensburg and the surrounding area. So I think the questioner needs to check his evidence again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133321	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133326	I would really like to follow up on that, so I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that the fence will not prevent wild boar from entering Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133337	I am very much in favour of setting up this fence; I think that was clearly stated in my rapporteur's speech. We must do everything we can to prevent them coming in, and I am surprised that some people will not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133351	Then it was Trine Torp again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133355	Well, I just want to know what kind of evidence the parties behind this deal have that a fence will even prevent wild boar from entering the country. And then just such a specific question: can wild boar swim?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133413	Well, I think it's obvious to everyone that if you set up a fence like that outlined here, that would of course be an obstacle to them. Whether it can totally prevent it, no one is able to guarantee it at all. I would hope that this will prevent them coming in, with the consequences we have seen here. I am thinking of the Danish slaughterhouse worker and all those who work in the whole food sector, all those who work in the machinery sector, all those who work in the whole downstream sector, because all their jobs will suddenly be at risk. We will not be involved in this. That is why we in the Left will, of course, do everything we can to prevent these boars coming in and this disease coming in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133451	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133454	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can not confirm that with these 80 million. kr. In other words, the industry itself pays around 30 million. kr., because it's so important a case. It was just a short question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133510	Thank you for the question and for pointing it out. It is a good thing to note that the industry agrees and supports and supports. Everyone should, of course, do that, but I am glad that it seems that at least we have a fairly broad majority. But I am surprised that there is no complete majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133527	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133529	It is also just one question because some debate is now being raised about whether this works and how it works. Can the rapporteur not confirm that similar ideas are being worked on in certain parts of Germany? I think that north of the Kiel Canal we are working on thinking that precisely the same will be done to keep this plague out of the German market. It's just a clear question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133554	I can confirm that. I have also been told that reality is beginning to realize many more than we are. Perhaps we were some of those who were first with it and started asking questions about it. But then we can be pleased that more people are asking for our Danish solution to be copied. So I am glad that there is also support from the Social Democrats to go further along this path and get it done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133619	In this way we can thank the rapporteur of the Left and then we have actually reached the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr President. Øjvind Vilsholm, on his way to the platform. And as I've recorded, it's practically the virgin that has to be kept. Even if there has been a run-in from the square with short comments, it is still the first time from the Parliament's platform so be it for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503133639	Thank you. Yes, this is the first time, and it is also with a certain humility that I step up the steps here on the platform. However, I would like to say that this bill does not call for a humble rapporteur's speech, because I am, to put it mildly, deeply astonished that the government can put forward a bill like this. With this bill, the government will set up 70 km fences across protected landscapes and protected nature in South Jutland to prevent Danish pig herds from being affected by African swine fever. Nobody wants African swine fever to spread to Danish pig herds, but the problem is that this proposal is obviously not the right way to deal with it. Firstly, wild boar is not the primary source of infection and, moreover, the fence is no guarantee that wild boar will not enter Denmark. Secondly, there is no evidence that the fence will work, and thirdly, there is no impact assessment of what this fence is going to have of negative effects on nature. Nor can we therefore assess whether this is contrary to the EU's natural directives. Let us dwell for a moment on the background that the government now wants to plaster South Jutland with a stadium-like fence. The reason is, of course, that African swine fever has now been observed in Poland and Lithuania, and one is understandably concerned about Danish pig exports if African swine fever should come to Denmark. However, the fact is that wild boar is not the main route of infection of African swine fever. On the other hand, it is animal transports, people and food that can carry the infection on to non-infected pigs. The fact that live pigs are transported more often than ever across the Danish-German border poses a much more serious risk of infection. In addition, drivers on these journeys, for example. Drops an infected sausage food in a rest stop. A wild boar fence cannot even stop flies and ticks, which are also considered to pose a greater risk of carrying infection. Nevertheless, wild boar is identified as the main enemy of the Danish pig industry, and wild boars must therefore only be combated and eradicated, no matter how weak a professional basis there is for the project. However, it is obviously a major problem that this bill is being rushed through, even if there is no case of contagious wild boar in Germany and the nearest country of infection is more than 1,000 km away. The fact that this bill is being rushed through with only 13 days of consultation over Easter and without any real assessment of the consequences for nature is something that is not right either. Otherwise, it is an unconditional condition in the Habitats Directive that an impact assessment of a plan and a legislative proposal has been carried out before it is adopted. Due to the urgency and pressure of this bill, the assessment of the Natura 2000 sites concerned is something that will come later and you cannot see it from the bill. In other words, today's Parliament has to deal with a legislative proposal on which we have no proper basis in any way for us to be able to take a position. With the material that has been presented to us, the Folketing has not seen any assessment of what a 70 km long fence from coast to coast will mean for indigenous protected species such as otter and wolf. In addition, the effectiveness of the fence is extremely questionable and I have tried to get to the point and I have not been able to find any other evidence of the effectiveness of the fence in curbing African swine fever than the fact that the draft law states that experience from the Czech Republic has shown that a fence is a suitable solution for keeping wild boar out of an area. But I simply need to see some evidence that really proves that the fence will have an effect in relation to stopping African swine fever. It is quite unheard of that the government does not provide a minimum of evidence that the fence is effective and puts forward an independent assessment of the consequences for nature before launching to date the most intrusive spread barrier for a larger number of native species in Denmark. The fence will most likely have major negative consequences for protected natural areas such as the Wadden Sea, Frøslev Mose and Sønder Ådal, and finally this will probably mean breaking international agreements and intentions in EU legislation. Obviously, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. And now I can see that the alternative is here, so I guess I don't have to say hello to Mr. Knox. Christian Poll and say that the alternative cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134107	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134113	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten to the Assembly and congratulate him on a successful first speech by the rapporteur. This is, of course, a very important issue which the rapporteur on the Enhedslist actually highlights very well. I would like to know if the rapporteur could perhaps elaborate on the possible negative consequences for nature in Denmark, the rapporteur could imagine such a wild boar fence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134147	Thank you. First of all, the negative consequences, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, are that there will be no possibility of species such as otter and wolf moving freely in the area. There are also the consequences that it will have to lead the fence through a Natura 2000 site. It's not a beautiful deed either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134217	Thank you. That is a very fine answer, which I think is absolutely right, even though I am not an expert in nature. I do not know if the rapporteur is. But when it can have consequences for the mobility of wolf and otter, it may also have consequences for the mobility of wild boar, which is actually the whole purpose of this wild boar fence. That is why I am perhaps a little surprised that the rapporteur lacks this proof of effectiveness, and one can say that the whole purpose of the wild boar fence, which is precisely to keep wild boars out of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134254-2	We can talk about efficiency, as wild boar can actually swim, so of course they just swim around the fence. And whether there is photo evidence that they have swam in Flensburg Fjord or not, it is actually a real possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134313	Mr President, there is one more brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134316	Thank you. With all due respect for the fact that this is the first time the rapporteur has been in the Chamber and on the platform to congratulate him on this and on the basis that the rapporteur himself played out a little bit in cash, and it was also clear that it was a speech written in advance, so I took note of one particular point that the rapporteur read out, namely that the nearest source of infection was more than 1,000 km away. It does not seem to be entirely in agreement with reality, but it may well be that the speech that the rapporteur has been given in his hand has been written in the basement somewhere in Christiania. But let it go. I just think we should try to get to the reality and deal with the problems we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134357	Thank you. I shall not be able to tell you where the rapporteur of the Left gets his speeches written, but we usually take advantage of our professional colleagues here at Christiansborg. However, whether the source of the infection is close or not, I would now like to say that it is not close and no African swine fever has been detected in Germany. But I do not know whether the rapporteur of the Left and I will take a trip with the tape and measure how far there is to the nearest outbreak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134426	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134427	For information, I write many of my own speeches myself. As far as geography is concerned, however, I would recommend that the rapporteur check with those who have written the rapporteur's speech to see how far there really is to the nearest source of infection. Because that's where I don't think the one with the 1,000 kilometers is gonna last. I'm pretty sure it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134444	Well, thank you, I'll do that, and then we'll talk about how far it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134452	Thank you. There are brief comments. This is Mrs Lise Bech, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134455	Thank you. We're supposed to be nice here the first time you're on the platform. I remember it myself. However, the rapporteur says that there is no evidence that it is effective. Now we have to remember that this is part of a whole package. But in the Czech Republic they have an area where there is a fence and there has been no outbreak of African swine fever since this fence was established. Then I would also like to hear how the rapporteur can say that he is not the great biologist and so on, but that nature may suffer. I guess it's no more firm than what you think comes from the government around this fence thing. In the 1980s there was foot-and-mouth disease, and there was also a fence. I do not know if the rapporteur is aware of that. But has nature been affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134557	I haven't gotten into the effects of the foot-and-mouth fence in the 1980s, so we'll have to save that for another day. But I am fully aware of the fence in the Czech Republic. Whether or not it is effective in the Czech Republic is not relevant either. For what is relevant is the question of whether a fence in South Jutland will be effective. I don't know if there are any rivers in the Czech But my great appeal to the efficiency of the fence is that wild boars can actually swim around. When I talk about documentation of how much the fence does damage to nature, it is, of course, very much a matter of proof that it will not do any harm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134650	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134652	Thank you. First of all, congratulations to the rapporteur on his debut. I have to say that it was and is a little harsh to say that this fence has no meaning and cannot hold back the wild boars. I would like to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur on how Enhedslisten will ensure Danish exports on the agricultural production we have. Does it not matter to the Enhedslisten whether slaughter workers become unemployed because of the swine fever? How will the Enhedslisten, if this is not the right thing, ensure that we do not get the swine fever to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134742	First of all, I agree that it is worrying about African swine fever, and we must avoid that coming to Denmark. But the question is whether it is a fence that will help us to see if it is the right means. We don't believe that. What other means are there, of course, we will be talking about in a few moments. It is, for example. to ensure that people's behaviour is the right one to avoid swine fever, is there the necessary respect for the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134820	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503134831	Thank you for that, President. The wild boar fence, about which the bill here is about, is one of several safeguards against African swine fever spreading to Denmark. swine fever is spreading, among other things. with wild boar, and the fence will help reduce the migration of wild boar from the south into Denmark. We have already used all means to eradicate the existing stock of wild boars in South Jutland and will try with the fence to stop new wild boars from wandering across the border from Germany. And why is that? Yes, as I said, swine fever spreads, among other things. via wild boar, but it skips long distances, often due to human activity, and therefore we do not want a large and lasting stock of wild boar in Denmark that could incur infection from infected foods illegally introduced into Denmark and left in the wild. Therefore, a wild boar fence helps to limit or hopefully completely eradicate the population of wild boar in Denmark and thus also minimise the risk of African swine fever coming to Denmark and spreading around Denmark. The aim is to protect Danish exports of pig meat out of the EU, an export which, as far as I am aware, amounts to 11 billion. annual. It is quite essential for our agricultural industry that we can maintain that export and therefore, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135024	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135036	I have to admit, I thought it was a lie when I saw it as a bill. Because I had never imagined that one could come up with the proposal to build a fence all the way along the border in Jutland to keep wild boar out. In my view, wild boar is a welcome part of Danish nature. We need more wild nature. Just as we need the wolf in the Danish nature, we also need the wild boars. Wild boars contribute to increasing the biodiversity of forests. Now that we are talking about this risk, that is, the risk of African swine fever, I can say that what I have read is that the risk for the first part is extremely low in general and that, secondly, it is largely unrelated to wild boar. It is linked to human behaviour, both private and professional, in agriculture and in pig production. So, of course, we are vertically opposed in the alternative. Then I would like to say to the new minister that there is indeed an opportunity to correct a mistake here. As I understand it, we now need to get used to the fact that pigs are called pigs, which is why we should perhaps also be talking about a wild rice fence today. But the alternative does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135209	The alternative doesn't. Next in line, sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135218	I would also like to congratulate the new Minister from the Radical Left, and I would also like to thank him personally. Esben Lunde Larsen as former minister. I had a very good cooperation with him in particular to facilitate the fees for small food producers, so also a thank him. We can't support this bill here. We in the Radical Left have been in contact with some of the experts and some of the citizens of South Jutland who are working on this, among other things. a person named Hans Kristensen, with whom I have written a lot, and we think it is mostly likely that there is still a risk that a wild boar carrying this disease can cross the border and also pass this fence because it is typically a lone wild boar who will not be afraid to try to cross a fence. As we have understood, the former minister has also said in South Jutland that it is mostly about saying to export markets symbolically that you do what you can, also by setting up a fence, and we think it is a lot of money. You're gonna spend 80 million. kr. I am informed that the 30 million. kr. pay the industry itself, but it is then still gone 50 million. kr. to be borne by taxpayers. At the same time, what should we say, yes, some obstacles for other animals to get over, by building a large fence through some natural areas. So we're not convinced that the effect is big enough to bear the challenges this fence also creates, and the price it costs. So that's why we can't support this move, but we want to help support a number of the government's other actions to combat this disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135415	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135423	I can say right away that the SF does not support this proposal. We would very much like to be involved in interventions which effectively prevent infection with African swine fever among Danish pigs. I think everyone agrees that the greatest risk of spreading swine fever is through human activities: food waste, infected transports, etc. So it is not wild boar that spreads swine fever, but human beings, and that is one of them. Some of what the next legislative proposal we are going to deal with addresses and with which there is much more common sense. But this proposal doesn't make any sense. It is associated with the cost of building the fence and expropriation and running maintenance costs, which do not measure up at all to what the purpose is, and God knows what our European colleagues will actually say about this proposal. Because there's no realism behind it. Yes, one can almost get the impression that it is not at all because of the wild boars that the fence is being set up. It is 70 km fences, but mainly on land, and it is worth noting that the wild boar population south of the border is south of Flensburg Fjord. So it is completely out of proportion to the problem and the wild boars will then not just try to get around the fence, for example. by swimming over Flensburg Fjord and searching through the roads where the risk of collision is high? So the bill raises a number of questions, first and foremost: where is the professional basis in relation to the fact that such a fence will work? As several of the consultations also point out, there is no evidence that a fence will prevent wild boar from entering Denmark. The government owes it to show that the price of the fence and the negative impact on the landscape and animal species are in line with the desired effect. To the criticism of the fence in the hearing answers, the Ministry's remarks are that it should be seen in conjunction with the other measures, but there is, as far as I can see, no argument whatsoever for the fence. Another question is: how will nature sites be taken into account? What the proposal says about Natura 2000 and other protected natural areas? And how can we live up to the habitats directive when a consequence of the fence is that other protected species are prevented from moving freely? The fence may have the effect of making it easier to shoot wild boar. But it's an expensive way of killing wild boar. What has the government done to make a solution with the Germans, which is likely to have the same interest as Denmark in preventing the spread of swine fever? As the consultations also point out, it is a very short consultation period that exists and the proposal does not seem very well thought out, so the SF cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135733	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135737	Thank you. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur himself mentions that in a hearing reply it has been said that other species will be prevented from crossing the border. I assume, then, that the rapporteur is actually taking too good goods, and so the rapporteur must also assume that the fence will prevent wild boar from crossing the border. And the whole point of this fence is to prevent wild boar from crossing the border. Of course, it will not prevent all wild boar from crossing the border. I know it's actually 90%. of those who try to cross Flensburg Fjord by swimming, who perish on it, but perhaps the rapporteur can also comment on that. But what is the aim of this overall complex of measures against wild boar is that we should not have a permanent stock of wild boar in Denmark which can be infected by human activity, as the rapporteur himself has said. Would the rapporteur please try to put some words on why it is so negative towards a wild boar fence along the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135842	First of all, there are the consequences that I have mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, but it is also because the route in which a wild boar fence is intended to be built is not, therefore, where there are wild boars, namely south of the border. They are south of Flensburg Fjord, and if they die on the way, when they swim over, I don't know. After all, they can move through the waters that are there and, as I know, they are not part of the stretch of the wild boar fence. I simply do not want to hear the answers in the consultation note and the criticism of the legislative proposal, the factual justification and the proper documentation that this should work. I am very concerned that we are not getting African swine fever into Denmark, but I just don't see how this solves it. And now that we have the Wildlife Management Council and the Green Contact Council, I wonder why they haven't been involved in this at all. It's as if you don't give a damn about the expertise we have in this country when you're making a proposal like this, and that's why it's gonna look very meaningless.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135949	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503135951	I am very pleased that the SF rapporteur actually states that the SF also does not want African swine fever to Denmark. That is positive, however. But there are proven boars in Denmark. There are proven wild boars in South Jutland, so they have come somehow. I don't think they've all swam over Flensburg Fjord. It is of course, one might say, wild boar as a species, we want to restrict and, in fact, preferably completely eradicate in Denmark, so that they are not able to spread African swine fever further in Denmark by means of these leaps through human activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503140025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503140026	Okay, then I got a little smarter about the purpose of this. It is a general obstacle to wild boar coming to Denmark. That is also one of the things I am saying, that is, that the purpose described, namely to prevent African swine fever, there is no evidence that this is going to work at all. But it will prevent animals from being able to move freely across the border, that is quite correct. So if the purpose alone is not to get wild boar to Denmark, I just still can't see that they should be prevented from coming in by other ways • that is, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503140104	With that we thank Mrs Trine Torp. And then it's sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503140112	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on the new job. I look forward to cooperation, and I also think it is worth noting that the Social Democrat rapporteur welcomed the Minister and announced that no ditches would be dug. So we are faced with good cooperation and a good climate of cooperation, and I hope that is what will become the form of cooperation in the future. I would also like to thank Esben Lunde Larsen for a good ministerial period and good cooperation. Around the wild boar fence, I would say that what we are doing here with L 228 is really just due diligence. Yes, we want to stop wild boars from entering Denmark; that is what this fence is for, and it is because in Europe, right now, we find that the amount of wild boars with swine fever has exploded in Poland, in the Czech Republic and the explosion of swine fever we fear is coming to Germany and once it is there, it can quickly be in Denmark. That is why what the government is doing here is an expression of due diligence. In Denmark it will result in huge losses, billions of dollars, of exports. And not only that, it will also be the case that jobs will be lost. That is why it is understandable that the Left will not support this project. The fence shall be 1.5 m high and shall be dug 1⁄2 m into the ground. Will it stop all wild boars? Probably not. But it must also be supported by other efforts, and here we can mention a hunting effort for the eradication of wild boar in Danish nature. This 70 km fence has to go between the Wadden Sea and Flensburg Fjord and continue out a little both places. The cost of setting up is partly financed by the State and partly financed by industry, and that is a sensible solution. There will be an ongoing cost of 5 million. kr. a year to the fence. The consequence of not doing this is almost unthinkable. What we are doing now is making an effort so that, if swine fever spreads in Germany, we can say that we have been at the forefront, and that is what the Conservative People's Party supports. We therefore support Bill No. L 228.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503140412	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. And then we can now welcome the Minister for the Environment and Food, the new Minister for the Environment and Food. This is not the first time the Minister has been on the floor, but it is as a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503140425	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the kind remarks made by my colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches, and I note that, fortunately, there is a fairly broad majority in favour of the draft law. As several speakers have said, the bill is a comprehensive package of measures against African swine fever. It is part of the agreement for strengthened action against African swine fever that the government and the Danish People's Party signed in March 2018. African swine fever is a serious and contagious viral disease. It affects all breeds of pigs, and it has a high mortality rate. There is no vaccine against African swine fever, but it affects only pigs and not humans or other animal species. African swine fever has never been detected in Denmark, but since 2014 it has spread to several EU countries. Today, the disease is found in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania and Italy. Most recently, the disease has been diagnosed in Hungary last week. In the event of an outbreak of African swine fever in Denmark, all exports to third countries will close down. In 2016, Denmark exported a total of 11 billion. kr. to countries outside the EU. We are therefore faced with a significant economic loss if African swine fever comes to Denmark, not just for the industry but for society as a whole, and as the Socialist rapporteur pointed out, it is therefore something that will affect many professional groups very seriously if we lose this income for a longer period of time. Therefore, the government and the Danish People's Party agree that action must be taken now if Denmark is to continue to be free from African swine fever, and we therefore initiate this effort to strengthen preventive action to prevent African swine fever from coming to Denmark. Wild boar is one of the main causes of the spread of African swine fever in an area. In Hungary, it is a wild boar found with African swine fever. Therefore, we in the government and the Danish People's Party agree that the wild boars found in the Danish nature must be eradicated. We need to do this in the interests of the risk of an outbreak. The effort to eradicate wild boar consists of a number of initiatives, of which the two legislative proposals we are going to deal with today are first here and then another is two elements. In addition, the hunters have been allowed to hunt wild boars 24 hours a day, and an intensified effort is being made to combat wild boars on government lands in South Jutland. This effort is, of course, in vain if there are ever new supplies for enemy troops in the form of wild boars from northern Germany. Northern Germany has a large stock of wild boars which has grown strongly in recent years, and therefore a wild boar fence must now be set up along the Danish-German border which will minimise the number of wild boars coming to Denmark from northern Germany. The bill here gives the Minister for the Environment and Food the power to authorise wild boar fences and at the same time gives it the power to expropriate the areas where the fence is to be placed. Of course, the landowners will be compensated for having to tolerate such a fence on their property. Before the construction of the fence, of course, its impact on animals and nature will be assessed. The fence will be placed so that it is as little trouble as possible for animals, nature and humans. However, it cannot be denied that the fence can affect biodiversity for a period of time, because there are some animals which, until we have repaired it, do not have the opportunity to pass the fence, and we must live up to our international commitments in the field of nature and the environment when we set up this fence. Account will be taken of the species covered by Union regulations in the field of nature. It is a price that the government and the Danish People's Party are willing to pay to secure the billions of exports and the many jobs associated with this. The fence is a temporary measure which must be taken down if African swine fever comes under control in Europe, something we all hope for. National efforts cannot and will not stand alone. The Government is therefore also working to strengthen common European action to eradicate African swine fever. Specifically, my predecessor in the post here at a Council meeting on 16 April 2018 has called for the establishment of an international group of experts to draw up an extended plan to combat and eradicate African swine fever in the European Union. We have such a common interest in this. There was broad support at the meeting from the other Member States for further pan-European initiatives. Specifically, the Danish Nature Agency will be the developer of the project, and it will be the Danish Nature Agency that will have to submit an application for plant authorisation. The task itself will be sent in EU tenders, and we expect the set-up of the fence to start this autumn. The expropriation process is carried out by the holder of the fine title Commissionarius at Staten Expropriations in Jutland, in the same way as in major infrastructure projects. At the same time, it is important for me to emphasise, because it has been mentioned a few times in the course of the debate, that the government wants free movement within the European Union, and the wild boar fence will not constitute any kind of border control for anyone other than wild boar. As I have said, it will continue to be possible to pass freely both at official border crossings and at the other passages where the border can be crossed today. And whether you have come to Denmark by climbing over the fence or by going over a field or by using a border crossing and I would recommend the latter it is exactly the same rules that apply in relation to alien law. So the government and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party will also take no risk in protecting the Danish production and export of pigs. That is why we are acting with due care. We are undertaking a wide-ranging effort in which the wild boar fence is thus an essential element. In those words, I look forward to the committee's examination of the draft law. Thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141142	There are just the first questions here, and they fall quickly. Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141148	Thank you. The nearest outbreak of swine fever is in Warsaw. By the way, it is 999.56 km from here, and the pigs are hardly flying. But that is what other insects do - flies and ticks. What will the Minister do to ensure that flies and ticks do not spread swine fever?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141218	I simply do not know enough about the ability of flies and ticks to pass on the swine fever infection to respond. But, of course, if we look at other sources of infection, that is something that we must tackle. Because as I mentioned this at the end, the fence is one element of this. There are many other elements we'll be dealing with one of the other elements here in a moment. First of all, then, it is a question of ensuring that there is no infection, and there are many ways we can avoid it. Wise suggestions are received by kiss hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141249	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141251	Thank you for that and, above all, welcome to the Minister. I am very much looking forward to cooperation, and the Minister has been thrown headlong into the first proposal here on wild boar fences. I was aware that yesterday the Minister said that nature would take precedence over food. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister: does the Minister agree that the main reason for the proposal is the consideration of the export market?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141327	It was simply so short an answer that I did not manage to get myself back in, but it is a good thing for the debate. I would also like to ask the Minister whether the Minister also agrees that the fence does not prevent wild boar from entering the country. The second question is: it may well be that the Minister has not just got to know that part, but how have hunters and the Game Management Council been involved, etc. in the minds of what consequences it could have and how else could it be regulated in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141403	Let me start by explaining a little. My first answer was a desire to be brief and precise. The questioner asked a brief and precise question, and I tried to answer that question. The fact that the environment precedes food does not mean that food does not exist and is not important; it means something in relation to priority. And from this one cannot deduce that one is the only thing that counts. In addition: No, a fence cannot rule out everything. Nor can it at home, i.e. that I have a lock on my front door, but I lock it anyway, although the thieves can also come in through the window. And so we must also have a fence, even if the wild boars can go to the border crossing and cross over there. Game cameras are being set up, so we're better able to keep an eye on what's going on. I also hear that some of these bastards seem to be able to swim, and it's also bad. But we still minimize the risk of setting up a fence, just as I minimize the risk of burglary by locking my door and minimising the risk of my dog running off by building a fence he can jump over it, he just doesn't know it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141508	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141528	We are sticking to the subject of this proposal, as in the area, one might say. The debate is open, and that is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141549	Thank you. As a small follow-up to the Minister's final remark, I would like to say that it is to be hoped that wild boar will also not be able to jump over the fence, at least as long as they do not know that they may be able to do so. This bill, like the previous bill, also deals with the fight against African swine fever. With the bill, we are tightening up the penalties for breaches of the law on food, animals and animal feed in relation to the spread of infectious diseases. The sharpened penalties must therefore prevent infectious diseases such as African swine fever from finding its way to Denmark. The lack of cleaning of the means of transport needs to be reduced in the future. I shall not be able to say whether it is there that the flies and ticks can hide, but it must be reduced, as well as the introduction of products and feed containing infectious bacteria. The normal penalty level for infringement is currently a fine of DKK 10,000, and the bill here will raise to DKK 15,000, respectively. for private and DKK 40,000. in situations with a commercial aim. This is in line with the punishment for the most serious infringements in the food sector in general. Given the volume of goods, the scale of animal production, the jobs and export value which the law protects, fines of this magnitude do not seem unreasonable to us. It is essential for the Social Democratic Party that we safeguard food safety in Denmark, and therefore it is quite appropriate that those players in the food industry who are out of order should be put at risk, thereby jeopardising food safety and many billion export dollars and many Danish jobs. It could cost a lot if things go wrong, and we don't think we can afford that. African swine fever is a threat that we must take seriously and, against this background, the Social Democrats can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141808	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. Then it's Mrs. Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141815	Thank you. This proposal will probably not produce as many comments as the previous one, so I think we can get this over with quickly. It says about the purpose of the bill that it is to strengthen efforts towards the introduction of infectious livestock diseases in Denmark, but this bill is related to the previous bill, that is, what we have just had, and is part of the agreement that the Danish People's Party has with the government on efforts to prevent African swine fever in Denmark. This section then deals with the tightening of the fines in relation to offences where the illegal act involves a risk of spreading African swine fever. It can, for example, be done. be illegal imports of food, lack of cleaning and disinfection of animal transport and illegal feeding of food waste. The amount of the fine for these infringements will reflect the seriousness of the infringement. We hope that a tightening of the level of fines can have a preventive effect, because it is very important that we do not have African swine fever in Denmark, as this could have a major impact on our pig exports and therefore also on jobs in the pig sector. The Danish People's Party supports the bill, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141937	Thank you to Mrs Lise Bech. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503141949	Thank you. The outbreak of African swine fever in a number of countries, including countries which are part of the internal market, has rightly caused great concern in the food industry and, in particular, among those involved in pig production. African swine fever is a very serious and contagious disease that can affect pigs of all breeds and with high mortality rates. As has already been shown, there are no vaccines against the disease, and if it only reaches the pig herds, there will be serious consequences for the individual farmer whose herd must be killed, such as that in question. was the case with about 20,000 pigs on a Danish-jet farm in Lithuania, which was affected by African swine fever. The consequences for society and the industry are that exports to third countries, including some of our largest markets, such as the United States and Japan. The United States, China and elsewhere, probably immediately closes if it happens. That is why we are also dealing first with this bill today, as part of the government's action against African swine fever. Part of the overall effort focuses on the spread of wild boar, and this part of the effort is important but not sufficient. We live in a world where we trade more and more with each other across national borders, and infectious livestock diseases can spread over long distances in a very short time through indirect sources of infection such as feed, poorly cleaned transport wagons, kitchen and food waste from food that may have been in contact with viruses, etc. Therefore, African swine fever now poses a real threat to Danish pig production and, most recently in 2017, cases were found in the Czech Republic and Poland far from previously known areas that have had it, and recently Hungary became the seventh EU country where the disease has been detected. Many export earnings and jobs are at stake, and we therefore have to act before African swine fever crosses the Danish border. With this bill, we are stepping up our efforts to deal with offences that increase the risk of spreading infection, and the amount of fines must reflect the seriousness of the infringement, which could potentially have very major socio-economic and economic consequences, and therefore we are also proposing that the level of risks associated with a rule infringement should be consistently taken into account when measuring the amount of fines. It must have a preventive effect and ensure timely care among those who work under the conditions that potentially spread the disease, and on that basis, of course, the Left will also vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142244	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142248	That sounds very reasonable, but since we have this African swine fever, I can't help but ask Mr. Erling Bonnesen, if it is not true that these boars can swim, and that Slien, where these swimming boars have actually been seen, is just south of Svendborg Fjord.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142316	Yes, but I have seen a video that some wild boars could swim, and therefore no one has guaranteed it, as has also been shown in the previous debate that this fence can prevent everything. However, it is also quite clear in the debate that there is a broad majority in favour of what is not included in the Enhedslisten. You have to do everything you can, and that's why we're doing this, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142339	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142341	But isn't it true that these boars actually swam just south of Flensburg?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142352	Well, I haven't been out doing, if I may say, research on where the different bastards have been swimming. But if it turns out that it's in Flensburg, then there's all the more reason to get full speed and get this fence up. So it can only go too slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142409	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then for the second time, sir. Øjvind Vilsholm. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142423	Thank you. I might as well go on where I left off now that I've learned to come up here. There is no doubt that the Enhedslisten is also concerned about African swine fever. And unlike setting up a fence 70 km along the Danish border, this actually seems to be something that could be a real effect in. It is not the case that we normally think that harsher penalties are the way forward, but if there is an effect of tightening the penalties in this area, we are actually in favour of it. In any case, it is at least a signal that attention must be paid. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142507	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was short and precise. Apparently, Mr. Carsten Bach, who now reaches the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142520	I'm in a hurry, yeah. Of course, the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal here, and there have been several rapporteurs on the platform, and there have been several good arguments to support the bill. It seemed that even Enhedslisten's rapporteur would support the bill. Of course, so does the Liberal Alliance. And the Liberal Alliance does so primarily because this is about human activity, which can, of course, cause the swine fever to jump, as we do, among other things. has also seen it in the Czech Republic, where swine fever jumps 300-400 km at a time. And that's human activity. And that's why it's pretty important that we get a preventive effect through these punishments. So it fully supports the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142601	Thank you. Mrs Trine Torp, SF, is also moving rapidly with the rapporteur's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142611	Thank you. And to this I can say quite briefly that we support this, and indeed on the same grounds that I had in the second rapporteur's speech, namely that everyone has shown that the greatest risk of spreading swine fever is through human activity, that is. food waste, contaminated shipments, etc. So here is actually an objective reason to support the proposal, so I will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142636	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142639	Thank you. When we talk about spreading and what the primary risk is, etc., I would just like the SF's rapporteur to confirm that there is also a risk of spreading via wild boar, and that, as far as I have been told, this is about. 30-50 km a year, that swine fever can spread via wild boar, and that the big leaps that I interpret Mrs Trine Torp talks about when she talks about the major risks, that through human activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142723	Yes, and then we are back to the same thing, namely that the little contagion that is, by wild boar infecting other wild boars, you just don't reduce with a fence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142737	Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142740	Yeah, small risk, big risk, but there's a risk. If we have wild boar in Denmark and there is also human activity and I assume that the SF's rapporteur agrees with me in the case of lorries crossing the border from Eastern Europe, from areas where there is actually swine fever today and from which, even if it is illegal, you can introduce infected food products which you can then throw out in rest places or in nature or elsewhere and which the Danish stock, which we hope will soon be eradicated, will come into contact with and thus become infected, then the SF's rapporteur will not admit...
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142820	Yeah, it got caught a little fast there. Was that enough for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142825	Yeah, but I don't think it's a match for the proportions of making a fence that you don't have any proof of. We support this because it makes sense. It is bets that limit where the risk of infection is greatest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142840	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503142847	Thank you for that, President. In concrete terms, the draft law L 229 provides for a stricter penalty for infringements which endanger the spread of the contagious disease of cloven-hoofed animals through animal feed and the like and through the lack of cleaning and disinfection of means of transport and the illegal import of products which may contain infection. It is, of course, the basis for telling those who cross the border and who have commercial activity in this area in due time that there is a need to be careful and that there is a need to be careful. I am thinking in particular of the cleaning of means of transport that run down the Danish-German border. As is added here, there will be a fine of DKK 40,000. for the commercial part and DKK 15,000. for the private part. It makes good sense, following on from the L 228 bill, that here too we are tightening up the sanctions and the penalties, so we are telling outside that this is serious and that this should be taken seriously. Conservatives support L 229.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503143013	Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, we have not quite finished the rapporteur's series, because Mr. Andreas Steenberg would also like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503143020	Thank you. I am sorry, Mr President, that I did not give the floor, there were other meetings that had to be taken care of at the same time. The Radical Left also supports this bill, like most other parties, and we do so because we believe that there is good evidence that this bill can help prevent African swine fever from crossing the border because people are being cleaned, for example. in means of transport when something comes across the border. I am not going to repeat too much of what my fellow rapporteurs have said, but, as I said, we can support this action in the fight against African swine fever.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503143059	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503143104	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for your contributions to the rapporteurs. It's nice that things are moving so fast. In connection with the first legislative proposal that I had, we did not agree entirely, but we seem to be doing so now, and I am, in fact, pleased about that, and thank you for the constructive words that have come. The draft law, as has been mentioned, is presented as part of the overall package of measures against African swine fever and aims to strengthen efforts towards the introduction of infectious livestock diseases in Denmark, including African swine fever. The bill proposes to tighten the fines for infringements of rules that protect against the introduction of serious infectious livestock diseases in Denmark. The level of fines must be significantly increased, so that the level of fines reflects the seriousness of the infringement to a greater extent and thus strengthens the preventive effect so that we can avoid outbreaks of the animal diseases concerned in Denmark. The concrete background to the legislative proposal, as we also talked about before, is the spread of African swine fever in the European Union, and it has updated the need for stricter penalties for infringements which endanger the spread and introduction to Denmark of African swine fever and other serious and reportable infectious diseases in cloven-hoofed animals. Denmark, as I mentioned earlier, has a large export of both live animals and meat as well as other animal products abroad, and an outbreak will have quite severe consequences for this export. In addition, animals affected by these diseases will suffer both severe pain and severe suffering, and this will have quite a negative impact on animal welfare. The bill is targeted at activities which present a nearby danger of introduction or spread of the serious reported diseases of cloven-hoofed animals. The bill is aimed at both commercial and private activities. The proposal therefore provides for the possibility of taking into account, when measuring the amount of the fine, as an aggravating factor that, in the event of a breach of the rules in question, there has been an obvious risk of infection, including the spread of infection with serious diseases. The diseases can infect cloven-hoofed animals by feeding, for example, infected food, kitchen waste, food waste and feed, and the infection can be transmitted via animal by-products, including manure. In addition, manure-contaminated transport equipment for animals poses a very high risk of infection. For example, the African swine fever virus is highly resistant and can survive in food and feed and manure for a long time, and the bill is therefore aimed at the activities mentioned, as they present a risk of spreading swine fever and other animal diseases. For example, animal transports that have not been cleaned have not been disinfected sufficiently and have not been properly arranged, coming to Denmark directly from outbreak zones, as well as illegal imports of products from outbreak zones. So I would just like to emphasise once again that I think it is very, very important to carry out this punishment, as the introduction or spread of the diseases in question will have very negative social, socio-economic and animal welfare consequences, and it sounds like we are in favour. So I look forward to the committee reading of the bill and thank you for the debate and the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503143500	And we thank the Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503143517	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503143534	Thank you for that. It's been a long time, too, and thank you for the floor. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative and Radical Left propose that in future municipalities should have formal access to submit proposals for the designation of Natura 2000 sites. The proposal from the four parties represents a completely different model for the designation of Natura 2000 sites than we have hitherto had in Denmark. The designation takes place in the context of the implementation of the EU Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive, and those directives oblige all EU Member States to contribute to the creation of a coherent ecological network in Europe of the particularly conserveable Natura 2000 sites. Denmark has designated 252 Natura 2000 sites and the European Commission has subsequently approved the Danish designation. If the municipalities are given the opportunity to impose their own nomination proposals, we will be able to see designation on a wide variety of bases around the country. The government doesn't want that. The government, on the other hand, wants a uniform level of transposition of directives throughout the country. With the designation of Natura 2000 sites, requirements for management and special conditions for the processing of applications for authorisations, derogations and similar. This means that a designation relates to many conditions other than the natural content of an area. A Natura 2000 designation is of particular importance to those who live and work in the vicinity of nature. An appointment may, for example: have major consequences for a pilot and the pilot's neighbors when applying for a livestock permit, or a use of a property other than the one you have today is desired. So there are many considerations to consider when considering new appointments. The Government believes that all these considerations are best balanced in a national model which also ensures a uniform level of regulation and directive implementation throughout the country. At the same time, the individual municipality can have a direct influence on political priorities, which are being carried out today by the Danish Parliament's parties. There may of course be something tempting in that for some. This is because with the designation of a Natura 2000 site there is an obligation to ensure that the natural state does not go back, and such a commitment can therefore require active action, and such action is not free of charge. Priority is given to funding for a Natura 2000 effort today in the Folketing, for example. agreements on the use of rural funds, and the government does not want to change that. In addition, it is important to say that there will be no more money in the rural programme, even if we should follow the resolution and let the municipalities identify these areas within the green Danish map to be Natura 2000 sites. Nor will there be any more national funding for EU-LIFE projects because more land is identified. Already with the current designation, priority is given to the specific areas and projects on which action can be financed. The motion for a resolution therefore gives no more money for nature purposes. Therefore, the proposed model will not change the economic reality of the municipalities' realisation of the green Danish map. I would also like to add that the Green Denmark map is a national tool under the Planning Act, which is intended to ensure the protection of public nature conservation interests across municipal boundaries. In this way, nature must be part of the balance with other interests in municipal planning. Green Danish maps are an effort for larger and more coherent natural areas, but at the same time all stakeholders must be taken into account. Thus, when green Danish maps were adopted, emphasis was placed on the fact that the designation of areas for green Danish maps could not in itself affect the use of land by landowners. I do not believe that it should be possible to circumvent it by allowing municipalities to designate the areas for Natura 2000 areas instead, subject to any restrictions that may result from this. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the clean-up process under way. I understand that my predecessor has set in motion the adaptation of the existing Natura 2000 sites, as agreed with Nature Package 2016, adopted by the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party. Our plan is to take out intensive land and urban areas without natural value and to add valuable nature to existing Natura 2000 sites. Prior to the preparation of the consultation proposal, the Danish EPA has obtained contributions to border adjustment from the municipalities, which have thus been given a special opportunity to contribute here. During the hearing, municipalities as well as citizens and pilot owners as well as interest groups have had the opportunity to make calls for the expansion and reduction of the areas. Work on the adjustment of Natura 2000 limits is a good example of the fact that it is possible for municipalities to come up with concrete proposals. Overall, the government is clearly of the opinion that it is not appropriate to change the existing model for the designation of Natura 2000 sites, and I therefore believe that the proposal should be rejected. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144133	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144138	Well, the Minister's own party, the Left, actually has a great deal of confidence in the municipalities, and the government is already in the process of relocating tasks and responsibilities to the municipalities. I can mention planning and coastal protection, etc. What makes the government think that the municipalities are incompetent when it comes to nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144206	We certainly do not believe that the municipalities are incompetent, nor in this area. But I think there's good sense in the fact that whoever orders pays the bill as well. This would mean that local authorities could identify some areas and that Parliament would then end up with the bill. That is one of the reasons I also mentioned in my speech. And I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144237	I'm just gonna make sure Mrs. Trine Torp wants to speak again. It's being pushed in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144242	Well, many of the municipalities actually demand in their consultation response to the designation of Natura 2000 protection, where the government takes out some land so that the farmer can be guaranteed access to these natural aid funds, and they really want to have a more active role in relation to this identifying of the areas. So I just want to know if this also means that the government cannot respond to the wishes of the municipalities when consulting the government's proposal to reduce Natura 2000.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144324	So the very thing about the reduction and expansion of Natura 2000 sites is an independent process, in which we have to look at what are some areas where it is reasonable to say that it is not reasonable to categorize the way it has been so far and, at the same time, to find some new areas where it is said that this is something that can come in on the other hand. Of course, you have to listen to what comes of input around. But it is the case that a proposal has already been presented as to what areas and areas should be included. In addition, it is inappropriate, when there are some municipal boundaries, that you do not get the same large natural areas as we would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144409	The last brief remark I have taken note of is Mr Beazley's report. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144413	Thank you. Has the Minister informed the EU that the government intends to abandon 23,000 hectares of Natura 2000 protection? And does the Minister think it is likely that the EU will accept such a large reduction in Natura 2000 land in Denmark? We already have too little protection for nature in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144437	I just haven't personally managed to be in Brussels yet. I was appointed yesterday. So, no, I haven't discussed that. As far as I am aware, my predecessor has discussed this here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144456	What action will the government take if the EU does not approve the large planned reduction of Natura 2000 sites?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144510	I have the expectation that you will. Because this is all about us wanting to call a spade a spade. We need areas that are Natura 2000 sites. These areas should not therefore be urbanised or otherwise exploited in a way that is not fair to this categorization. So it's not about involving nature; it's about calling things what they are and putting the right label on our areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144540	We thank the Minister and start the rapporteur's round. We'll start with sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144550	Thank you. A resolution has been tabled to formalise the municipalities' proposals for designating new Natura 2000 areas to the government. If the proposals on protected areas meet the formal requirements for the presence of habitat types and species, the resolution will oblige the government to pass on the municipalities' proposals to the European Union. In the social democracy we share the ambition of more protected nature and better protection of natural habitats. A coherent and wilder nature and a greener Danish map are crucial if we are to stop the decline in biodiversity in Denmark. It is therefore a pity to be witnessing the policy pursued by the present government in this area. There has certainly been no more or better protected nature. The government's so-called nature package has even actually proposed the elimination of natural protection for 23,000 hectares of nature in Denmark. That's not good enough. Together with the SF, we have presented a very ambitious proposal on how we can do much better. In Denmark, we need much more untouched forest • much more. We must have better coherent nature and natural parks with a strong nature conservation, and we must also designate more land for protected nature. It is actually the case that today, while we have dealt with legislative proposals and resolutions in this area, we in the Social Democrats have launched our initiative called Denmark must again be a green power. I have brought a copy to the Minister and have written a little greeting as well, but it doesn't matter. However, there are high ambitions, on behalf of nature, on behalf of biodiversity, on behalf of what the proposal today also revolves around. We believe that the municipalities today have good opportunities to make proposals to the government when it comes to the designation of nature areas that need to be protected. However, whether there is a need to give municipalities formal access to submit proposals to the government for the designation of Natura 2000 sites, we are in order to be completely honest in doubt as to whether the right thing to do is to do. That is why we would like to see us first jointly identified in the committee, how we create the best framework for a Denmark with both more and better coherent nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144835	There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144838	Thank you. I think the Social Democrat rapporteur himself was a little upset that I have to ask a few questions. Because it really upsets me that the Social Democrats do not recognise that the nature package put forward by the bourgeois Government was historically ambitious. Is that not something that the rapporteur can well confirm?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144904	I can confirm that there have been steps in the nature package that are moving in the right direction. However, I would not call the nature package as a whole historically ambitious. Nor do I know where the rapporteur himself gets that view. That's not the impression I have. I myself mentioned a few specific figures on a lot of hectares that are being moved in connection with the nature package. So no, I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144934	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503144935	Among other things: After all, the nature package is much more acres of untouched forest. This is one of the things that we all know is very important. For that is where many of the species also thrive. We have been extremely ambitious in this area. That is why I cannot understand why we are having this discussion in the Chamber today. I would actually have liked instead of perhaps recognising that there we chose to take a huge step in the right direction. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that every time you want to make new moves, you also have to find the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145018	Yeah, that's right. You always have to find the money for it when you have to make new moves. If the rapporteur would like something that is historically ambitious, I also have a copy for the rapporteur of the new initiative of the Social Democrats today, where we are putting up to 75,000 hectares of untouched forest. Because it is true that untouched forest has a meaning and can make a difference. But if you want to, you must also dare to be ambitious about it. We are. I hear the rapporteur is also interested in this. Therefore, perhaps we can share in fulfilling some of the high ambitions that we have achieved, so that they also become reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145052	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Lise Bech, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145057	The authors of the Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Alternative and Radical Left want the municipalities to be given the opportunity to propose the designation of Natura 2000 sites in future. Can't they really do that today? It is proposed that the municipalities be given formal access to this and that the government be obliged to forward the municipalities' proposals to the European Commission if the proposals meet the formal requirements for the presence of habitat types and species. At present, the Ministry is in the process of reviewing the existing Natura 2000 designations, which have not been looked at since they were designated. This was agreed in connection with the 2016 Nature Package, of which Dansk Folkeparti is a part. In the Danish People's Party, it is our expectation that land will be set aside, because these are areas that do not meet the requirements for being designated as Natura 2000 sites. We think that is common sense. It makes no sense to identify agricultural land and urban areas which do not contain anything worthy of conservation. We do not support the proposal, as we do not think it would be a good idea for municipalities to be able to enforce proposals. Then appointments can easily be made on a wide variety of bases around the country. Today, the political priorities are being made by the Folketing, so that the designation of Natura 2000 sites takes place in the same way, regardless of where it is located in the country. As I said, the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145244	There is a brief comment to Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145248	It is just to make it clear that it is not a question of imposing and allowing the municipalities to drag Natura 2000 down on the landowners. In fact, it is about many farmers wanting to have more nature on their property, but there are a lot of schemes and rules that prevent it. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur will help to remove some of the negative incentives that exist in order to have nature on his land.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145321	First of all, I think we should wait and see what comes of the fact that it is now in consultation to set aside some land and put in new land, so that it will be the right thing to do. There's no need to take out any farmland and put it in like these Natura 2000 sites. They have to be real natural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145345	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145346	Yes, but out of a total of 340,000 hectares of Natura 2000 land in Denmark, the government proposes that approx. 28,000 ha. The areas are mainly agricultural land in operation, but they are also built-up areas. In addition, it is proposed to extend the existing Natura 2000 sites by approx. 5,000 ha. That is to say, it is a net take-off of 23,000 hectares. So I just want to hear, how does it create more nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145418	It creates the right nature. Because urban development is not nature, so it makes no sense that it lies in it. It has to be the right nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145431	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we are moving on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145440	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution which we are debating in the Parliamentary Chamber today is a proposal designed to allow municipalities to put forward proposals for the designation of Natura 2000 sites. In their motion for a resolution, the authors point out that local authorities and their implementation of the Natura 2000 plans must be allowed to give concrete objectives, and this seems to be being made more difficult at this stage. It is the case that I must also start here by saying that we in the Left cannot support the resolution. I doubt that several Danish designations of Natura 2000 sites will be the way forward. Here I think it is incredibly important that we focus on the state and objectives of the areas we have already identified. I do not think there is any need for us to point out yet more. The Danish designations have already been approved. In addition, I also think it is important to point out that the designation of Natura 2000 sites is a national task, not a municipal one. Indeed, it is also clear from Article 3 of the Habitats Directive that a Member State when designating Natura 2000 sites, among other things. shall consider the proportion of the total national occurrence of a habitat type that is part of the network. In this context, I am convinced that the national perspective that the designation clearly requires will actually be lost if the municipalities are given the right to make these proposals for designation. Finally, I would like to point out that the resolution does not comply with the habitats directive. The Habitats Directive is not intended to review the Natura 2000 designation on an ongoing basis. In fact, it is a heavy job that is going on. That is why we simply believe that it might be almost practically impossible for there to be an ongoing designation by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145701	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503145709	Thank you. First of all, a big thank you to the SF for taking the initiative on this resolution. We in Enhedslisten are very happy to be co-sponsors of this proposal. The proposal is extremely important because it will allow municipalities to make proposals for new Natura 2000 areas, and thus we will have an important player on the ground as a co-player in the process of creating more nature in Denmark. According to the European Commission's Natura 2000 barometer, Denmark is the country of all EU Member States that has designated the lowest share of land as Natura 2000 protected. Only 8.3%. of the land area in Denmark are Natura 2000 sites. It is less than half the average for all EU countries, which is 18.1%. So it is outside any discussion that we need to start identifying more areas, and here the municipalities are an important and central player. Our nature is in an alarmingly poor state. The Danish nature is fragmented, and there is no connection between isolated small, we should call it islands of nature. We need more space for nature and one of the keys to it is more and more Natura 2000 sites. No fewer and less, which the government has otherwise set up with the strange exercise, in which the government will lose 23,000 ha of Natura 2000 sites net, an exercise that puts nature protection at risk on an area as large as Langeland. The current Natura 2000 sites are 25 years old and, in some cases, the government may be right that the designation is pointless in relation to nature, but the extent of the set-aside and the diffuse justification for the set-aside is in no way aimed at the fact that there are inappropriate designations in some places. On the contrary, it conflicts with the aim of Natura 2000, namely to create a natural network that preserves and strengthens nature. It must be said that it is nothing less than a headless exercise that the government is doing when it is netly removing protection in such a large area and refusing to identify new areas for the habitat types that we have already identified far too little. Instead, we must ensure that more protected nature is identified in Denmark. The Green Denmark Card must be more than a registration of existing nature. Nature's state in Denmark makes it imperative that we achieve the goal of coherent nature, a goal that is central to both EU legislation and the purpose of a Green Denmark Card. It is very uncertain whether the Commission will approve the government's comprehensive reduction in Natura 2000 area. Therefore, the government should support this resolution so that discussions with the EU can indicate that Denmark intends to supplement the current designations with both extensions of existing Natura 2000 sites, but also with new designated areas for the species and habitat types of which Denmark has designated far too little. And it is this new designation, which among other things. can be done by means of this proposal, which is drawn up by an executive authority, namely the municipalities in cooperation with the owners concerned. It would suit the government to be open to that possibility, both because it is very doubtful whether the European Union will accept the massive reduction of Natura 2000 sites, but also because in the consultation process that was in connection with the government's maneuvering of Natura 2000 sites, we could see that there were incredibly many consultation responses from municipalities that would like to have the opportunity to propose new Natura 2000 sites. There are many municipalities out there who actually want to have more protected nature in their municipality. We must, of course, allow these municipalities to put forward proposals for the designation of Natura 2000 sites. After all, municipalities are already responsible for implementing the specific objectives of the Natura 2000 plans so that Denmark can meet the overall objective of the Habitats Directive to achieve favourable conservation status. And it is quite obvious that local authorities should also be given the opportunity, with their local knowledge, to make proposals for new appointments. It meets the proposals; there are formal requirements for the presence of natural habitat types and species, and then it is obvious to oblige the government to pass on the local authorities' proposals to the EU. The Enhedslisten, of course, supports the proposal as a co-proposaler of a hundred per cent and we hope that in the forthcoming committee we will be able to bring together a number of parties, including the Social Democratic Party, around a report that gives a hand in giving the municipalities the authority when the power of government changes after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150203	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150206	Thanks for the speech. Does the Enhedslisten rapporteur not think that the resolution and the model presented here are contrary to Article 3 of the Habitats Directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150223	I do not think that at first sight, but I will look into that when it is pointed out that it could be an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150232	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150235	Thank you. I think again that it is fine to table a resolution like this, but it must also work in practice if we are to think about it in the end. And if we are constantly to get input from the municipalities, which will then have to be approved by the Commission, then I have to say that I simply cannot imagine how this can be done in practice. That is actually what I would like to hear from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. In other words, what will happen when, as we are well aware, it can also be a rather heavy process to get things approved in the European Union? Isn't there a danger that this will never succeed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150316	There's a danger to everything, but if we don't try, it won't happen. And I guess you could put it together a little in piles, so we don't send it drips off, but actually it does in several larger total packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150333	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150338	Thank you. Overall, I do not believe that the resolution here is in line with the EU Habitats Directive, which, I know, does not provide for the ongoing designation of Natura 2000. The directive, on the other hand, provides for a single designation and, once it has been approved by the Commission, it will subsequently be possible to adjust any errors and shortcomings. There are, for example: the current adjustment of the boundaries of the Natura 2000 sites, which has had the clear aim of removing agricultural land from the Natura 2000 designation in general. It is therefore not the case that the natural values in the areas are declining. On the contrary, it is also proposed that new Natura 2000 sites with high natural value should be identified in certain places. So this is not a process of continuous nominations, and that is why I would regard the resolution here as an over-implementation of the EU directive, which the government and the Liberal Alliance in particular are opposed to. Does this mean that the Liberal Alliance is opposed to more nature in Denmark? No, of course not. For a long time, I and the Liberal Alliance have been calling for much more free and wilder nature on state lands, much more untouched forest in state forests and much more high-value nature on state open spaces. That is why we also have to phase out commercial activity such as forestry and agriculture on state land, both because it is state-owned theft, but most of all because it displaces free and wild nature and removes focus from what should be the state's core task on state-owned land, namely to promote care and develop free and wild nature. However, in relation to the current resolution, I have to say that the Danish designation of Natura 2000 sites has been approved by the European Commission. However, errors and shortcomings in the appointments can of course be made on the basis of changes. The Natura 2000 network shall reflect the occurrence of nature at national level. It is therefore a state task to ensure that the Natura 2000 network is representative of nature in Denmark. And I do not believe that for the same reason the municipalities have the necessary overview of nature throughout the country. Instead of identifying new areas, efforts should, in fact, be much more directed, as is the policy of the Liberal Alliance, towards promoting and developing natural values on state land and in already designated Natura 2000 sites. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150712	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503150724	Thank you. It is quite unaccustomed to be allowed to come on so early, but I am happy to do so. In the Conservative People's Party, we would like to thank you for this resolution and for the opportunity to discuss Natura 2000 sites. There have been many rapporteurs on the platform before me who have explained very well the content of this motion for a resolution. Last time I checked, we had 252 Natura 2000 sites in Denmark. They cover 8.3%. of our land area and 17.7%. of our sea area. Then it is true that there are other countries around Europe with which we can compare ourselves, which have identified significantly more Natura 2000 nature, but it can be extremely difficult to compare across countries. We do not have large mountain ranges or anything else in Denmark that absorbs land. After all, the proposal is to allow municipalities to stop Natura 2000 sites for designation, which the government is then obliged to pass on. We basically do not think this is a very good idea. We do not do this because we really want some form of municipal unification or local standards in this area, so you can be sure that what is a Natura 2000 value in one municipality is also in the other municipality. We do not think that the municipalities themselves should sit with it. We need to ensure that there is a national overview of these designations. Then, of course, we should also have a look at the fact that just because we designate more Natura 2000 nature does not mean that there will be more funding to care for and maintain the Natura 2000 nature. It can quite well just mean that you lubricate the liver mail a little thinner. In view of this, we cannot support this resolution in the Conservative People's Party. Several other rapporteurs have pointed out here that it is in line with the spirit of the habitats directive and, above all, the text. I can easily follow that this can be called into question without, however, making me a judge of it. Much of the debate today has not really been about this resolution, but about the adjustment of the Natura 2000 areas by the government, which is actually a little wrong, because that is not what is being proposed today. But just to make a comment on that, I think it is perfectly healthy that we should look at the areas which have been designated back in 1990 which have not been reviewed since then. It can devalue the Natura 2000 sites in general if there are some designated areas that do not meet the natural value and natural quality that must be the standard for our Natura 2000 sites. So, in this way, I can actually fear that we will devalue the entire Natura 2000 nature scheme if we do not ensure a sustainable high quality in the designations. However, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503151037	Thank you to the rapporteur. We still have a rapporteur before the draftsman of the opinion, and that is once again Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503151047	Thank you. I'm sorry again, President. The President also made a point, but I have 13 rapporteurs and three meetings at the same time at the moment, so I regret that I just had to run back and forth here. I am giving the speech here in the absence of Mrs Ida Auken, and she will be rapporteur through the committee procedure and also co-author of the resolution. We need more nature in Denmark, and the nature that is in the country must be better. In the Radical Left, we have a vision of having more of the marginal lands that do not yield much profit to farmers out of service and could reward more farmers for creating nature on their lands so that they have a clear incentive to give nature more space. The Danish nature is under pressure, and over 2,000 of the Danish species are on the red list, which means that we are in danger of losing them. Nature requires space and coherence. Therefore, it has been a radical matter for many years that we had Green Denmark Card made, which gave us an overview of where there is nature today and which gave the municipalities responsibility for identifying the areas that can make our nature more coherent. The proposal we are debating today aims to allow municipalities to designate Natura 2000 sites and to register them. The government is on the way with the abolition of 230 km2 large areas that will no longer be Natura 2000 sites. It may be sensible if the nature to be protected has disappeared, but if we can eliminate Natura 2000 conservation, if there is no longer any nature to protect, we must of course also be able to identify new valuable nature once it has arisen. That is why we in the Radical Left are co-sponsors of this proposal on Green Denmark Card and Natura 2000 which we can of course support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503151243	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503151249	Thank you. It is absolutely true that our nature is under pressure. We have too much incoherent nature and we need to raise the quality of the nature we have, and that is among other things. This is one of the reasons why we are making this proposal. Because in 11 out of the 17 habitat types from which we have surveillance data from the period 2014-15, there are signs of a deterioration in the condition, and according to the national red list, 2.262 Danish species are redlisted and thus in danger of eventually disappearing, and that says something about how we need to make an effort in this area. And quite rightly: the government has not yet decided how many square meters of Natura 2000 areas to take out of protection or how many square meters to add. The government has not finished assessing, among other things: the consultation response of the municipalities. After all, it is to be hoped that a new minister with a maximum of one year's time for the elections will be accommodating to the municipal consultation responses and identify several Natura 2000 sites, while at the same time removing clearly misplaced areas. After all, we also agree that if it does not make sense to have designated Natura 2000, then it is fine, but we would like to have more nature, and that is what this proposal is all about. The local authorities' response to the consultation is actually also interesting in this context, because they should be included in the discussion of this motion for a resolution. For it is very clear that many municipalities would very much like to interpret more Natura 2000 and it can be said that the municipalities have so far anticipated the resolution and proposed concrete extensions of Natura 2000 to the government around the country. By just a simple search I could at least find 253 extensions, 25 new areas and above for only 62 limitations. So the municipalities are very concerned about getting more nature, and so, of course, I would also like to have the Ministry, during the committee's work, send a summary of the consultation answers from the municipalities so that we can actually listen to their wishes. The government can, of course, choose to respond to the wishes of the municipalities if it is technically documented in accordance with the directives, without supporting the resolution before us, which comes from the opposition. The government can also choose to ignore the wishes of the municipalities, even when they are well documented and fulfil the conditions. Municipalities have no formal access to submit their proposals for EU protection of habitat types and species to the European Commission via the government. We believe that municipalities must play a much greater role in nature protection, including in the nature protection that we have joined in the European Union. This applies to formal legislation, and this concerns the objective of stopping the decline in species and habitats from 2010, which was until 2020 when it was not reached and which is not achieved by 2020 either. During the short period with a green majority from 2011 to 2014, we got Nature Plan Denmark with a commitment to the municipalities to map the green Danish map. The green Danish map must be more than some lines showing the existing nature, because it must also be the starting point for planning larger and wild natural areas. However, the municipalities must also have some tools to do this, and here the designation of Natura 2000 sites is a natural extension of the obligation and opportunity that the municipalities already have when drawing the green Denmark map, and it is also kind of utopian to imagine that we will have more nature if the municipalities and the locals and pilots are not there. Therefore, it is important that municipalities are involved in an active role, even when the nature of European and international importance is to be identified. Then, in the debate here, there has been such a little talk about the ongoing designation, and also whether it was even in accordance with the habitats directive. After all, the habitats directive requires that the countries designate enough, and Denmark does not. How many times has Denmark actually designated Natura 2000 sites? So that is the commitment we have. Because it's true that having a lot of appointments can be a rather difficult practical manoeuvre, but you could also choose to pool them and do it the first time and then do a review every five years, where you have some kind of deadline to come up with these settings. So it should be possible. But I can also hear that there is not such a great deal of support at least from the governing parties and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. A proposal could also be for the government to extend the current exercises and prepare the professional basis and then encourage municipalities to come up with concrete proposals for enlargement within a year. However, we believe that the municipalities are the most familiar with where there are natural qualities in their area; they are also the ones who are in the best dialogue with the landowners, and who will be quite clear about what can be said to co-workers in terms of creating more nature in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503151840	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503151841	Thank you. I can start by saying that the green majority that we are right now also loves nature. I also hope that the SF's rapporteur has noticed particularly well that the Left is indeed a green party that looks after nature. Having said that, I would like to ask: if we do not maintain the national inventory, is there not a danger or risk that the municipalities will also identify some nature that we cannot say is not worth the bet on? I would like to make a comment on that by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503151921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503151922	Yes, but this attitude should not go directly from the municipalities to the European Commission. It's coming in over the government. There must, of course, be that overview, and it must also, of course, meet the criteria that exist for the quality of nature, but the municipalities can also do so. In any case, I think it is a little mistrust of the municipalities that they do not think that they can assess their natural areas. If they know the criteria for what nature qualities there are, then they will also be able to come up with those settings. That is also what we have proposed in relation to the green Danish map. So it is an attempt to say: give them another tool to live up to the obligation, which also lies in the green Danish map, to get more nature and more coherent nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503152017	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503152018	In the Left, we also take the view that we want to ensure as much nature as possible for the money, that is to say that we also have to give priority to where we are going. I would like to know whether the SF's rapporteur does not agree with this, that it is also important to give priority to the best possible and maximum value for money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503152042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503152043	Certainly, but I just do not see that the proposal we are making here contradicts that. It is clear that there will be an additional feature on funding financed by the European Union, among other things. LIFE and rural development funds, because it is perfectly reasonable for pilot owners to be compensated and encouraged for nature protection and care. We are in favour of this. So it is clear that it will. But I do not see that this proposal runs counter to the idea that we should, of course, give priority to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503152120	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I hereby propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Now we have reached the last item on the agenda, but as the agenda shows, this item cannot be dealt with until after 1 p.m. 16.15. I shall therefore postpone the session of the Danish Parliament until 8 a.m. 16.15.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503161502	The sitting is resumed. We will take the last item on today's agenda. As this resolution has emerged from a citizen's proposal, I would point out that there is not, as such, one rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. The negotiations have been opened and we will start with the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503161556	Thank you for the floor. Just over a year ago, we had the first reading of a draft law on changing the remuneration and pension of ministers. At that time I said that this is always something that concerns a great many people, both inside and outside the Parliamentary Assembly. That was right then, and it is still true. At any rate, I note that the resolution we are debating today, as a citizen's proposal, needs to have 50,000 support in order to be put forward, and this was achieved at record speed. The motion for a resolution then contains a number of themes relating to a contribution-defined occupational pension, namely a contribution-financed occupational pension for members of the parliament who are to follow the pedagogues' agreement, and for ministers who are to follow what is called a relevant agreement. And then there must be the abolition of the child pension and orphan's pension for the children of former ministers and the abolition of early retirement for politicians. The rules governing the remuneration and pension of ministers and members of parliament were changed a year ago, and the government has the same attitude as then, so we reject the proposal. However, on the basis of the matters relating to the affairs of ministers, I would like to make a few comments on the comments. As far as the Minister's pension is concerned, last year we raised the age limit for retirement from retirement age to retirement age. This means that the ministers who earn ministerial pensions after 1 June 2017 can only receive the pension as a starting point when they reach the retirement age. As you know, the retirement age will increase as the population grows, and the retirement age will therefore also increase for ministers who earn pensions after 1 June 2017. The legislative amendment last year also introduced the possibility for ministers to receive their ministerial pension in the future against a life-long early retirement allowance. It makes some sound like it's a very special arrangement. It's not. It is, in fact, an entirely ordinary scheme which is in the ordinary labour market with occupational pensions. So if you introduced what the proposers actually say, namely an occupational pension scheme for ministers, and if it were a copy of what is happening in the private labour market, then there would also be an early retirement option. It is the case that if you get something paid before you reach retirement age, it can be done against a deduction, a reduction. The reduction depends on how long before the retirement age one chooses to go. This also applies to the collective labour market. It is the case that the ministers who have been appointed in the past can be paid five years before the retirement age. Those appointed from 1 January 2018 and later, i.e. among others. Some of those who were appointed yesterday will be entitled to early retirement at the earliest three years before the retirement age, and this is due to the fact that the Danish Parliament decided in December to amend the pension tax law so that the retirement age will be changed from 5 years before the retirement age to 3 years before the retirement age. When we change it for people in the rest of society, of course it also applies to us in the Folketing. The Minister's pension is calculated in the same way as civil servants' pensions, and therefore the same rules are applied as for early retirement allowances, which also apply to civil servants. The possibility of retiring before the early retirement age against a permanent reduction is therefore the same for collective employees as for civil servants. With last year's legislation, ministers were given the same opportunity as the rest of the population in order to start a little earlier on a reduction in pensions. There was a broad majority for it in the Folketing, i.e. to equate in that way too. In other words, ordinary occupational pensions can be paid in the same way from the age of retirement, and the life-long pension will then be reduced regardless of the form of pension if you start to retire before you reach the age of retirement. With regard to the rules on orphan's pension and orphan's pension, there was little attention to this in the debate last year. In the media coverage of the area, it has been possible to get the impression that this was almost a gold mine for the children of former ministers. That is why I would perhaps like to explain in more detail than usual what the rules really are. If a former minister receives a ministerial pension and at the same time has a child under the age of 21, the child is entitled to an orphan's pension until he reaches the age of 21. The pension supplement is before tax DKK 1,374.50. a month. If a former minister has earned the right to a ministerial pension and dies while having a surviving child under the age of 21, then the surviving child is entitled to a child's pension until he reaches the age of 21. Children's pension is before tax DKK 2.608.40. a month. Both the orphan's pension and the orphan's pension are intended to ensure the child's dependants when changes occur as a result of death or retirement. The rules governing the orphan's pension and orphan's pension are laid down in the Civil Service Pension Act. This is therefore not a unique or special right for ministers, members of parliament or for the children of ministers and members of parliament. These are uniform rules for children's pensions and orphan's pensions, which apply to the children of ministers, members of parliament and civil servants. The same applies, in fact, to the rules applicable to employees in collective agreements. For employees in collective agreements in the State, where the parties to the agreement have agreed on a number of minimum benefits in accordance with the occupational pensions of employees of the collective agreement, one of the requirements is that pension schemes should include a right to a child's pension until the child reaches a certain age, up to 24 years, i.e. up to 24 years. The right to an orphan's pension therefore also applies to the children of collective workers. The right to a child's pension is not unique to the children of ministers. This is a right which members of parliament, civil servants and the children of employees of collective agreements have on equal terms. With the legislative change last year, when the retirement age of ministers was raised from retirement age to retirement age, there will be very few future cases of children of former ministers entitled to the child pension allowance. Thus, after the changes made in 2017, entitlement to a child's pension allowance is only possible in the future if a former minister has reached the age of retirement and at the same time has a child under the age of 21. This also applies if a former minister chooses to receive his pension at an earlier date of pension payment against a life-long early retirement allowance and at the same time has a child under 21 years of age. So, as I mentioned at the outset, these are the rules that were changed a year ago. These are rules on orphan's pension and orphan's pension which were not amended but which are in line with what is going on for civil servants and for civil servants in the State. The consideration is that children must have a dependent base, even when their parents' income is changed. That is why there is a balance. There is a balance in what we offer to employees in the public service, civil servants, and what we offer ourselves as members of parliament and ministers in this Chamber. I think that our remuneration should be balanced. On the one hand, they must reflect the balance of having the responsibility to be part of the country's management and, on the other hand, they must be fair and balanced and adapted to the country's normal remuneration. Conversely, it must of course also be the case that one does not choose to become a politician on the basis of a desire to earn a very, very high salary. That has been the balance, and I do not think that any of those who sit in the Folketing today have chosen politics as a career for the sake of the economy alone. I think there should be reasonable rules and I think that the current rules, following the amendment adopted a year ago, represent a fair balance in this area. The government cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162451	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162456	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I think it was nice that although the Minister does not support the citizens' proposal, the Minister took it seriously and went down thoroughly. I think that's good for these citizens' suggestions. That is my second kind of thing, and that was not quite the case in the first citizen's proposal. That's why I'm saying it. I would like to hear about the following. One of the things I think is the problem for people is that if you are a minister, you earn lifelong pensions very quickly because it is not funded or savings-based, but because it is based on the old civil servant's pension. Can the Minister see any sense in changing this arrangement at some point, so that it corresponds to what is in the ordinary labour market where you save your own wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162541	It was, of course, the case that at some point we set up the remuneration commission to look at how it was going to be and it came up with its report. The report included, inter alia: increase in wages towards a reduction in pensions. There were various reports from the Danish Parliament's parties, and what became the conclusion from the Danish Parliament's parties was that they did not want to go further with the remuneration commission's proposals. You may have different views on what it was like, but there was a discussion at that time about whether it was a better balance than what we have today. I do not wish to deny that we will have to look again at the models of the Pay Commission at some point, because that will create a different kind of clarity. I still think that the fact that some of the most criticized elements of our pension scheme, in other words the members of parliament, are in fact similar to those of ordinary contractual pension schemes, is sometimes forgotten in the debate. I therefore went into the details a little thoroughly, both out of respect for the authors of the motion, but also out of respect for the fact that I think this discussion should be conducted on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162656	I think that is a good thing, because I actually agree that sometimes there are some myths, and it's good to demystify this area a little. I am very concerned that, like the discussion on the recommendations of the Salaries Commission, we are going to resume, and I really think that I would just say from here that I hope that the Minister will at some point consider whether we should not sit down and see whether we should implement some of the things that were not implemented in the recommendations. I think that as long as we do not, these discussions will arise because it just does not correspond to what is in the ordinary labour market, and I think it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162730	It should only be borne in mind that the proposals of the Salaries Commission were their proposals for a balance, a balance in which they both looked at what normalisations of income rules should be, and what it is then for a corresponding increase in wages that needed to maintain a balance and to maintain a remuneration equivalent to jobs with similar responsibilities in the public and private sectors outside it, one might say, rather limited working groups, as Members of Parliament and Ministers are at present. But I do not deny that one can learn more along the way, and I do not deny that there can be elements that make one look at this again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162810	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162812	Thank you very much for a thorough examination, perhaps also a little bit of an estimate in relation to the fact that this early retirement allowance is an equality with occupational pensions. It also came out during the debate at the time that it is somewhat cheaper for us, if I may say so, to buy us for those three to five years than it is for people on an ordinary occupational pension. So the consequences, the percentage they have to go down, are considerably greater. But let it go. What I would like to hear is whether the Minister is impressed by the fact that this citizens' proposal is number two and also what was the most rapid support. For there was another minister from the government, a now outgoing minister who was out to say that he was not impressed at all. I very much agree with Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, because it's like this criticism keeps going. And we've moved a little bit, after a lot of discussion, in relation to getting an equal retirement age and other things. But could this not prompt the government to ask: should we not now take the final step and set up an occupational pension system for us politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503162922	I believe, in fact, that, as our remuneration is linked today, our pension system, which is a reflection of the civil servant's pension, is fair in relation to the overall remuneration package, which is intended to be a minister and a member of parliament respectively. In fact, I do not think that is unreasonable. And even though the concept of civil servant has been greatly reduced, civil servants are still employed in key positions in Denmark because it is a category that we still use away in Denmark. Compared to what Mr. Pelle Dragsted started by saying that what the rate of deduction from early retirement allowance is is, I would say that our rate of deduction has been matched by one for someone with the civil servant's pension allowance, not with collective employees, because we are also not collective employees, we are similar to civil servants. And that's why our deduction rate is equal to that of civil servants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163028	Well, when it comes to retirement, it's just not quite right. If I am not mistaken, we as members of parliament will earn our pension about twice as fast as an official. And when it comes to a minister, you earn in eight years what it takes an official a lifetime to earn a pension. So it is not an equality with civil servants. Well, it's true that we've come around a lot of things. It was much worse when a minister could go out and then get a ministerial pension for the rest of his life, and also for his children as Mr. Jann Sjursen, not to hang him out, but it was his case that kind of started this discussion originally. There are many Danes who still believe that it is, but fortunately it is not. But we have some corners left, which are still very privileged, and the question is whether it is not time to tackle them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163117	I am replying precisely to the case that was mentioned. I was asked about the early retirement allowance for contractual employees and then for us. The early retirement allowance for collective workers is higher than ours, but the early retirement allowance for civil servants is just like ours. Earnings are different. I have never concealed the fact that the rules of profit are different. And it's not that you get more worn down by having to answer Mr. Pelle Dragsted's question; that's just the way it is. So why don't we just let Jann Sjursen rest in peace, not because he's dead, fortunately, but because his case led to a change in the rules back in 1999. So why don't we just leave it there for you to retire right after you stop? You can't do that. And you haven't been able to do that in almost 20 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163211	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163213	Thank you. Does the Minister really believe that the politician's task is to compare with the official office, that is to say, a lifelong dedication to the same work with which there are, moreover, a lot of disadvantages? If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you're an army officer, you can be commanded to the other end of the country. As far as our place of work as members of parliament is concerned, it is, after all, firmly established in the Constitution that we are sure that we will have to work in the same place. The government can decide for itself where it wants to work, but it has to meet in this Chamber. Does the Minister really believe that the two working conditions can be compared with each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163255	Okay. But if they are to compare with each other, does the Minister, who has been a minister for a number of years, really believe that the first four years as a minister worked as hard on the finance minister as 18 years' service as an army officer would? Is it the same workload? So four years are, for example, four years old. tax minister and then 18 years with broadcasts to all the hot spots of the world the same in terms of wear on the body?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163324	I think, in fact, that I have sometimes said that our remuneration as members of parliament and ministers is a balance sheet, a balance sheet package, consisting of the ongoing payment of salaries and then the pension scheme. There is no doubt that our pension scheme is more lucrative than that of others. Nor is there any doubt that, in relation to the workload and responsibility on the shoulders of members of parliament and ministers, we are not as highly paid as we would be in, for example. the private sector with a corresponding workload and responsibility. That is why I think there is a balance between the two. After all, what the Salaries Commission was looking at was whether the balance could be changed so that there was a higher base and a lower pension component. It then chose the parties of the Folketing not to follow, which is why we have the rules that are now, and they support the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163416	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163419	I would also like to thank the Minister for a thorough examination. Is the Minister not aware that often a minister stands on the platform and says to the private citizen: you have to insure yourself; you have to make sure that you get a daily allowance; you have to make sure to buy a cash insurance; you have to make sure to buy a lot of insurance schemes? That is the signal we send to the citizens. Then it is difficult to explain to the citizen the fact that a minister's children must have a post-employment pension, that is to say, in relation to a pension. Then I am thinking of: does the Minister not think that it would be better if, as a minister like everyone else, one chose to have an insurance scheme if one wanted to have something for the survivors, that is, one's children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163459	I think it is very good that we have rules like everyone else, for example. Like all other employees in the State, who have the same way to have a guarantee that there is a remuneration for children under 21 or 24 years of age, depending on the age limit agreed in the particular agreement. For it is the case that the employees of the State have also negotiated in their agreements the right to a child's pension or an orphan's pension for their children. It is part of their collective pension package, just as it is part of our pension package that we have such a guarantee, albeit at a modest amount, for children under 21 years of age when a minister or a member of parliament retires or disappears.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163549	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163551	That's right. But now I am thinking of the fact that all government employees do not stand on a platform and say to the Danish people: you must insure yourselves that you are responsible. There I think there is a difference, because you send a signal when you say to people: Remember to earn the right to a daily allowance; remember to do different things. That is what the Ministers are saying. After all, people are told: Make sure you insure yourself. It would be a fine sign if, as a minister, we said: I do like the citizens whom I legislate for; I make sure that for my children some insurance arrangements have been made. Doesn't the Minister think it would be fair to people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163626-2	I think it is actually very fair to recognise that the Danish People's Party really does not recognise that the conditions which some people portray as being very special to ministers, namely that there is a child's pension and a child's pension supplement, are actually very common. It would be quite fair to recognise it instead of drawing on a picture that there are special conditions for ministers and members of parliament when it is a widespread scheme that collective pension agreements include a child's pension and a child's pension supplement. I think that would be fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163701	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163704	I, too, would like to thank the Minister for a very thorough examination. What I really think is fundamental in this debate is that we have so many citizens raising this agenda, and I think one of the reasons why they are raising this agenda is that there are opaque rules. I recognize the Minister's examination of the civil servant's pension, and indeed there are some similarities, so there are also some differences, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted has pointed out, but what I think is the problem here is the civil servant pension. Officials are a dying race. We have a lot of closed groups of civil servants, and then there are some places where they still exist, they exist in the defence, and they exist within the police, but we also know that the employer of the state has tried to get rid of the civil servant's appointment and, as such, still wants it. So I find it difficult to understand why we cannot work towards an occupational pension which is transparent and which the citizens of the country can understand, and then we can discuss the concrete salary and what the salary should be, instead of continuing this debate, which will, of course, reappear over and over again, because people find it difficult to understand why we should have a pension as civil servants, and why, moreover, we earn it faster than ordinary civil servants. So it is probably mostly a comment, but a question to the Minister whether the Minister can see the problem of the difficult transparency of pension conditions, both ministers and ordinary members of parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163849	Unfortunately, I think that pension rules are, in general, difficult to understand, and this applies to members of parliament, civil servants, but also to collective workers, and among other things. The fact that collective workers also have an orphan's pension and an orphan's pension is not, of course, a knowledge that is quite clear in any debate, because then the discussion about whether or not there is a bias would not be present. I recognise that there is a marked difference between our pension schemes and those of others, and that is the difference between the rate of earning. Apart from that and the question of child benefit, the rules on payment and on early retirement are actually very similar to what is happening everywhere else. There is a difference, and that is the difference between the rate of profit, and we have discussed it sometimes. I myself was involved in proposing that a commission be set up, namely the remuneration commission. There the parties of the Folketing then, when the Commission made its report, chose not to follow the recommendations of the Commission. We adopted some new rules last year, and the government stands by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503163952	We were then one of the parties that would like to follow the recommendations of the Pay Commission, but a group of parties then chose to depart from them, you might say, in the law that now exists. I therefore think that the Minister will have to acknowledge that argument that there is also a child's pension in collective bargaining. That is another way of earning your contractual pension. After all, it is the social partners who, out of their payroll, agree on the amount of their pension contributions. After all, it is financed from the total pool, so I do not think it can be compared in this way and say: well, it is also found in occupational pensions. For that is something people have made up for themselves by refraining from further increases in wages. I hope that the Minister will say that this is a model that we must work towards introducing so that we have an occupational pension so that we can say that we follow the usual Dane, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164102	In my view, it is very comparable. I believe that when you are in the Danish Parliament along the way, and I have been in several rounds, among others. in the context of the change back in 1999, the remuneration of members of parliament has been assessed, consideration has been given to remuneration, pension income, pension rights. So I think it is very similar to what is going on in the private labour market. It is estimated how the wage bill agreed should be distributed, including whether the increases in wages, i.e. the increases commonly referred to as wage increases, should be allocated as concrete wages or other benefits. I think they are actually comparable. May I just say to what I think was the last brief remark to me, and as several people have said about going through this citizen's proposal in depth: I think we actually owe it to all citizens' proposals to do so, because whether we agree or disagree with the proposals, some people have sat down and dealt with a problem. I was opposed to citizens' proposals, because I believe that if a parliamentarian can be persuaded to make a proposal, it will have the same effect as collecting 50,000 signatures. But when someone has chosen to take the trouble to collect so many signatures, we take the trouble to deal with it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164219	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Karen J. Klint from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164229	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the Minister for the thorough examination of the background to the fact that we are here today. It is true that it was a broad section of the Danish Parliament's parties that changed the pension conditions and other conditions for all of us in the voting agreement concluded in 2016. That agreement updates and normalises a number of elements on the situation of full-time politicians that we are discussing today, and we in the Social Democratic Party are still in the agreement reached at that time. But it is quite understandable that many Danes are concerned about what conditions we have either as a parliament politician or as a minister. I also think it is quite understandable that we are confused about this, because not everyone contributes to the objective information. There are still many myths that are based on old agreements and not on the latest agreement, where the early retirement scheme and everything else have been reduced much more. So this is not the last new thing that the population in general is dealing with, but often some older things. With last year's agreement, we made a number of good changes that update the rules on remuneration and pension conditions. I would like to highlight a few points most topically in relation to today's debate. We think it is very reasonable that the retirement age of politicians should be brought forward and that this should follow the normal retirement age for everyone, so that there is a correlation with the retirement age. So when the retirement age of all Danes is brought forward, in view of the fact that we live longer, and it's nice that we all live longer, and that is why we also have to retire later. Similarly, we change the rate so that wages and salaries also follow the wage developments elsewhere. That's fair, too. And for the sake of good order, I would like to mention that the Minister did not mention what level we are at, but here in the Danish Parliament our level of remuneration corresponds to the state wage frame 37-39, and then you can go in and see what level of work provides a match in relation to which posts are at that level. We have also cut short the period during which you will receive a refund, and there is also a refund, or what to say, there is a deduction, where you are set off, if you get a copy of it and at the same time get another job, or if a minister comes back to the Folketing, there is also a set-off on the copy there. So I actually think we tightened up a year ago. There are some of the new things here that will only come into force after the elections, because it would also have been considered an expropriation if we went in and changed some things retroactively in relation to the choices that have been made. I do not think that we are compared with very few people either, because when we look at both civil servants and collective workers in the state, we are actually up to over 60 000 people, and that is at least just one of the figures I have. It may be that it is considerably more, depending on who we count. We, as a party, want the situation of the country's politicians to be balanced, and that is why remuneration and pension schemes must also be seen as an overall package. We are still standing away for that. If some people want a different discussion of it, we must look at it, but we are not discussing remuneration for ourselves and pension scheme for ourselves. It is two sides of the same coin and a single package to run for politicians on. Overall, we think that the agreement with the current rules is sensible, and we also want there to be conditions where it does not prevent anyone from being a politician. If we reduce the remuneration substantially or the pension scheme substantially, I think we will actually miss some professionals in the Folketing, a professional group that is not in the majority in this House. So there must also be a balance so that it does not become lucrative and we do not become a wage leader or a wage leader, but we must also be able to represent the whole population. I have been in here for some 20 years, and I have heard this debate very many times and also had the rather funny honour of being rapporteur for it sometimes, and I agree with you that we have not succeeded in explaining the current arrangements well enough, and we are happy to put forward a debate on how we can make it more transparent, so we have fewer misunderstandings about the arrangements that exist. We very much agree with the need for this. But my experience with my 20 years in here is that we do not really get any sleep at our remuneration or at our pension scheme. In fact, I think that most of the people in here, not to say all of us, and also those of us who are in the Chamber today, are reasonably busy both in here and abroad. I do not know whether it should count in the arguments, but it is not just a 4-day job we have or a 37-hour week we have, and it is also a little difficult to compare with responsibility. There is only one legislative power in Denmark, and with whom can we compare that responsibility? There we have chosen the cut in the parties that made the voting agreement last time that it was then at a wage level that is not at the top among the public officials, but that is, wage margins 37-39. So, in those words, we in the Social Democratic Party cease to allow the current rules to prevail. We do not intend to change them here and now, but we would like to take part in a discussion on how we can clarify them so that people understand them better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164843	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jacob Mark of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164850	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. First of all, I would just like to say that I also consider all my colleagues and also those who do not vote for this citizens' proposal to be hard work. That is not why I think the arrangements should be changed. That is for two reasons. One is that I want to create more transparency, and the other is that I want to create more fairness in the arrangements that exist. I think that you got a long way when you made the last agreement, but I do not think that you came to the end. So I actually believe that my question to the Social Democrat rapporteur should be: why is it fair or a proper arrangement that ministers of eight years of age can earn the same lifelong pension that it takes an ordinary employee a working life to earn?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164936-2	My answer must be something like what the Minister said, namely that remuneration and pension scheme should be seen as a whole. So, if there was another gain, would the remuneration be significantly higher? You can't just take one part and talk about justice from it. It's a whole package.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503164959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165001	This could be done in principle, because the reason why you have the pension scheme and have the remuneration you have is because at some point you decided to set up a scheme which, in my view, is not reasonable. I understand the argument that you should also look at remuneration if you, for example, look at remuneration. abolish the tax-free allowance or take some of the other parts that the Salaries Commission talked about. But I guess you can make an equal treatment of the pension scheme without looking at the remuneration. It's a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165033	It will then require a majority in here, just as it does all sorts of other political decisions. There I say as a Social Democrat that we see it as a single package.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165043	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165044	Perhaps I could then accept that it was seen as an overall package in relation to members of parliament. In other words, everything is relative, but it is true that the salaries of members of parliament here are lower than in many other European countries. But when we talk about ministerial pensions and ministerial salaries, it is not the case that ministers are poorly paid. As far as I remember, they make just over a million dollars. kr. And in addition, in eight years, you earn a full pension from the year you retire until you die, that is, what it would take a regular employee, including civil servants, a lifetime to earn if they even get close to it. And it doesn't seem quite fair at first. So what do the Socialists think of this, since we are talking about ministerial pensions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165136	We do not want to pick things out and talk about elements individually. We want to have a whole discussion and we want to help make it more transparent. And if there is to be a change in one part, there will probably be a change in the other part as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165153	It's just a little funny, because that argument has been going through all those years when Enhedslisten has been working with other parties in here to get something done about some of the unfair privileges. And it has actually managed to change it along the way without tampering with the other parts. We have set up the retirement age without being compensated for it, fortunately; neither should we. We have removed a number of other injustices, i.e. in relation to others. This is the first time that we have been able to get rid of the balance in our balance sheet as early as the first year. So we've done a lot of surgery, and fortunately, because it was even more unreasonable before. We talked about the children of ministers before, and that you got a pension all your life. So there is a long tradition that we have actually tampered with things without it being meant that wages should be raised at the same time. So I cannot understand the argument as to why we should not be able to do so in relation to the minister's pension, so give them a little longer money, so it took a little longer to earn a full pension than it does today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165250	I agree with the questioner that many things have changed, and that is also why it is so opaque, perhaps also for some of us, but at least for the citizens in particular. After all, the after-the-counter issue is because it is not so difficult to get back to work today after you have been a politician. It was a few years ago. The old age of retirement, that is to say, we all have to be equal at the age at which we earn a retirement pension. So there have also been some other legislative changes that have led some of the details to follow the general trend. But that does not change the fact that we basically believe that remuneration and pension schemes are all equals in a single package. And that is also what the Pay Commission pointed out, at least for us as parliamentary politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165333	Sir. Jeppe Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165335	Does the Social Democrats' rapporteur, like the Minister, think that the thing about being a full-time politician is to compare it to being an official, then eight years as a minister, for example? As a result, there is as much hard work to be done on a person as 37 years of police service, for example.?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165355	It's not certain I would have used the same picture. I would rather use the picture that it is a comprehensive financial package for the tasks you have. I'm an old state official myself. I have also tried what I have been working for 52 years, if we also call it a job in here, so I had actually also had a full civil servant's pension in the initial position I had when I came in here. But that does not change the fact that we see it as an overall package, i.e. ministerial salary or ministerial salary and pension scheme, parliamentary remuneration and the parliamentary pension scheme. About whom we should compare with, I think it is easier to compare in terms of remuneration, where, as far as we are concerned, we have pay limits 37 to 39. I have not tried to be a minister, so I do not think I am the right person to judge how the mini-shop is working on a minister, how it is working on us or on others.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165457	It's nice to have an expert inside, considering what it's like to be an official. But if you don't think it's so important to compare yourself with civil servants, will the Social Democrats be responsive to making a new model, where you also look at the whole thing together, but, after all, what estimates that the pension should be earned like most other Danes earn their pension, so that there isn't this huge wage jump where you can work in 4 years as a minister for 18 years? And if at the same time you are a member of parliament during that period, it is actually 6 years on top. Then it's 24 years of work in four years. It's objectively a complete hole in the head. Everybody can see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165543	I am not standing here making new promises in relation to the vote agreement there is. However, if anyone wants to be able to discuss how we can better communicate the present system, then I would like to say yes to it. But I am not here with a negotiating mandate to accommodate DF at that request.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165601	Sir. Karsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165603	I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur whether she does not think that if a citizen, for example, is not. I come to a minister and say: How do I secure my children in relation to my death?, then the Minister will reply: Of course you have to make an insurance scheme, but that does not apply to me. Does the rapporteur not think it would be a good thing that with the large salary that a minister has, one could at least afford an insurance scheme, like all other citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165636	I just think that if the pension scheme that exists today were to be replaced by something else, then the salary would have to rise significantly. For it is an overall package where input and output should fit together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165652	However, the rapporteur understands the fact that one stands on a platform and tells the citizens of the country that they must insure themselves and be responsible and take care to do these things. Well, there's a big difference between being a minister and being an official. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem to be faced with the citizens and to say one thing, but there is something different in relation to one's own arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165716-2	I think it is more of a dispute about words. Because I was actually trying to answer by saying that if we had to insure ourselves in that way, the remuneration would have to be increased. And then we are on the same page, so there will still be some who say that we will be paid too much if we have another insurance scheme. That's what I'm saying. It is a comprehensive package of remuneration and pension schemes. So if we're going to have a different pension scheme, I think the remuneration needs to be increased. And in fact, I believe that it will probably take almost a third up, that is to say in relation to what the remuneration commission pointed out that our remuneration would have to be up in order to make that comparison. So it's a dispute about words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165753	Thank you very much to Mrs Karen Klint and welcome to Mr Karen Klint. Jeppe Jacobsen from the Danish People's Party on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503165813	Thank you. These pay discussions often end up in whether the remuneration to politicians is too high or too low. I think that's actually one of the great things about this citizens' proposal, that is, it doesn't necessarily relate to crowns and ears, but it's more about the fact that it's a wrong arrangement. Not whether it is too high or too low, but that it is wrong. And that's what it is. It is wrong that in just a few years you can earn a pension which far exceeds the pension that you could have earned with an ordinary job. We are not civil servants, which is why it is wrong to compare politicians with civil servants. After all, we do not have a three-year period of notice with full pay as an official. That is what has been done. Now you have a limited period of detention. I was an officer at one point in my life and had the prospect of having an official reinstatement. The conditions I would have met as an official are completely incomparable to the conditions I have as a member of parliament. As an official and as an officer, I could have been told from one day to the next: Now we have found a new place for you to serve. Instead of being in Slagelse, you must be at Bornholm or in Aalborg for example. Our place of work as politicians is written into the constitution; then we are assured that we know where to work. And it should be borne in mind that this is the reason why civil servants have these relatively good pension conditions, among others. That's because they have a lot of drawbacks about being civil servants. There are a lot of things that you do not have the same influence on as a civil servant as you do as an employee. And that is what brings together the civil service system that you have. And that's not comparing to being a politician. So what is saying, as the proposers say, to cut it over the read whether it should then be the educators, as the proposers are talking about, or some others, is perhaps less important, so that one looks at getting a pension savings like everyone else, is something that ensures a reasonable level of it. The previous speakers here on the platform have said that we need to look at the overall pay package, and I have actually been looking at the overall pay package for being a politician. If I sit here in the Chamber until I retire, I will actually have a higher pension than the pension that is actually in force now, with a scheme such as the one being proposed here. So in this way, this will actually increase the pension of certain politicians. So that would be more attractive, so I do not think it is an argument to say that one should look at it as a single package. After all, no one suffers from having a parliamentary or ministerial pension, and if you can get an occupational pension of some percentage of it and you estimate that a teacher can live for 18%, i.e. a pension existence of 18%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that, in the case of teachers' salaries over a working life, it is enough to consider that, over a working life as a politician, a percentage of your daily pay is sufficient to support your retirement life? And that's what this is about. It's not about crowns and ears. It's about fairness and the fact that we don't have any special strength; a pension system that only applies to this small group of people, where you have some particularly lucrative income conditions. It's about fairness. So we agree with the proposal and it is not because the pension is too high or too low, but because it is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170240	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. There are no brief comments, so we shall proceed to Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170252	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating today is tabled on the basis of a citizens' proposal which has obtained the necessary number of statements of support from citizens in order to be able to be dealt with as a motion for a resolution here in the Folketing. The citizens' proposal provides for the introduction of a contribution-financed occupational pension to follow the pedagogy's agreement instead of the current parliamentary pension, the same arrangement for ministers to have a contribution-financed occupational pension by appropriate agreement instead of the current minister's pension, the abolition of child pensions and pensions for children of former ministers, and, finally, the proposal to abolish early retirement for politicians. I understand the intention behind the citizen's proposal, namely that we should have rules that are reasonable and that, in high terms, reflect the rules of the Danish labour market. I also believe that the conditions for politicians should not be so favourable that people are going to become politicians solely for the sake of the economy. It should not be favourable pension conditions and remuneration that make people choose politics. But there must also be a balance in things, because vice versa, of course, you must be paid in such a way that pension and remuneration reflect the responsibilities that go with politics. For politicians must be paid for the efforts they make for Denmark, but they should not be overcompensated either, because politicians are servants of the people, so there must therefore be a balance in things. I believe that, when we count all together, we have that balance overall, and I believe that the adjustments to the salaries and pensions of politicians that we made last year have helped to secure the overall balance sheet adjustments that were adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing. Last year, we raised the retirement age of ministers from the retirement age to the retirement age, and the adjustment of the retirement age of ministers means that ministers who earn ministerial pensions from 1 June 2017 can, as a rule, only receive the pension when they reach the retirement age. I think that is fair, and I do, because it must of course be the case that the age of the ministers of retirement follows that of other Danes. With last year's agreement, we also made it possible for the pension to be paid as a minister before the retirement age, but this would be against a life-long early retirement allowance. I also think this is fair, and I do so because the possibility of retirement before the age of retirement against a permanent reduction in the annual pension also applies to collective workers and to civil servants. It is therefore not a special privilege that applies only to politicians. The agreement we reached last year was reached by a broad majority in the Folketing, so there was broad agreement to make the adjustments we made, and we in the Left, of course, still stand by that agreement. As regards the rules on orphan's pension and orphan's pension, it is the case that they follow the civil servant's pension law, which means that this is not some unique or special right for the children of ministers. Moreover, there will also be very few children of former ministers in the future who will be entitled to child benefit. I therefore believe that the current rules, both for the retirement conditions of ministers and for the rules on child pensions and child pensions for children of former ministers, are reasonable, and I believe that overall they balance the consideration of reflecting on the one hand the responsibilities of politicians and, on the other hand, that the conditions are not so favourable as to cause people to enter politics solely because of economic considerations. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170733	Thank you. It has given rise to a series of brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170741	Does the rapporteur think that it is fair and an expression of this balance that a minister can earn a full, lifelong pension on top of his millionaires from reaching retirement age, after four years' service, that is to say, that which takes every other Dane a lifetime to earn, including those who are civil servants?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170811	I don't think it's fair to pick out just one piece and then just talk about that piece. This must be included in a comprehensive picture, and I also agree with the explanation and review which the Minister has given in the past, where he said that it should be seen as a single whole and not assessed solely on the basis of a single piece of the puzzle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170830-2	However, as I also said to the previous rapporteur, this is a fun argument, because it was also used when we on the Enhedslisten said many years ago that the retirement age should follow the same as that of others. It was also said from the platform that one could not go in and change one thing without changing the other. But we did. We have a number of precedents now, fortunately, because there was so much pressure on where we have gone and changed something. So why is it that we cannot go back in and change some of the things that appear openly unreasonable, including for example. That there is such a rapid recovery of pensions, which apply to special ministers, but also to members of parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170910	I thought it was a good thing that a remuneration commission had been set up quite a short time ago. They reported, and then there is a majority in the Folketing that has responded to it. As the debate has shown in the past, a number of things have been removed, and then there is a single package left, and that is what we are aiming for as it stands now. And then we stand in the left, of course, by the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170932	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503170933	Thank you. It is the case in Denmark that if you are appointed minister and at the same time a member of the Folketing, you can retain your title as a member of the parliament while being a minister. The only parliamentary work you actually have to do in order to maintain that status is to show up on Tuesday and Thursday in the Parliamentary Chamber and vote. We should not be looking after committee meetings or any other part of the parliamentary work. You have to do your ministerial work, and the parliamentary work then consists of voting in the Chamber. Does the rapporteur think it is fair that while you are a minister, you still earn a pension from the Folketing, despite the fact that the only effort you make as a member of parliament is that you turn up and vote on Tuesday and Thursday?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171020	Well, I don't recognize the picture the questioner is putting up here. It is my experience that if you are a member of parliament and at the same time a minister, you participate in all parliamentary work. You do your ministerial work and, in relation to those who are both minister and parliamentarian, it is very often and most often heard together, I find it so that you also fit, if I may say so, your political work, as you are now a member of the parliament. There are plenty of things that need to be looked after around, and it may be that you do it in a way in one party and that you do it in another way in another party. I don't recognize the image that the questioner is putting up that you just show up and press the button and then drive again. I don't recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171105	So that means that the two ministers, who are not members of parliament, do not do parliamentary work, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171113-2	I can, however, rely entirely on the rules laid down in relation to the fact that a prime minister has the opportunity to call non-folk members for ministerial work, and that is where, of course, you do the ministerial work as you do. And we can all keep up with that, and that is why I still do not think I can recognise the picture that the questioner is trying to put up with some sharp distinctions. I don't think you can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171139	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171141	Let us now say that the rapporteur had become a minister and that the rapporteur had become a Minister for Employment and he stood out for a lecture with a lot of unemployed people and told them that they should remember to insure themselves and take care of all these things. And let us say that one of the people who was present came and said: what happens in the event of the death of my children? Then you would say, 'Well, of course, you'll need an insurance policy, 'cause at least you'll be safe. Let us say, then, that he said to the Minister: why should you not have an insurance scheme, why there should be a lucrative pension scheme for your children? What would the rapporteur say if he were a minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171223	But the questioner is quite right that I am not a minister. I stand here on the platform as a member of parliament, and that's how I can act. If I were to have a question of that nature as a parliamentarian, I might immediately, if it were right now, try to say to the person: where are you employed, what are your schemes, and are you possibly insured in a way so that it is also covered? A lot of people are in this situation. In this situation too, I think it is a little simplistic to put it up that way. Then we will also return to the overall answer that we have, namely that you have to see this remuneration as a total package and be very careful to pick out individual elements and then draw firm conclusions from individual elements. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171311	But there's a reason people don't understand this. The citizens can understand this with high wages and other things. It is easy for citizens to do so, but it is difficult for citizens to understand that they have to make insurance schemes for their children and that ministers should not do so. So the rapporteur can also understand that the citizens are getting a little confused when you tell them, as legislator, that they have to do one thing while you do another. Can the rapporteur not understand that the citizens are getting a little confused?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171345	Now I understand that the questioner himself is also concerned with the fact that it is perhaps more about an understanding issue than it is about the assessment of the overall package. Then it was perhaps a very good idea when you got the question, to try like to ask back to those who ask how it really is in general with the different insurance schemes around, and whether there are not very many who have covered different things in their own insurance schemes. So it could be nice if you could help each other with that and then get a better information about all this. We could then assess the overall package for the person concerned and then try to compare it with the overall package for members of parliament and ministers respectively. It would be interesting if we could get more perspectives into it. In fact, there is little missing from this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171443	Let's see if we can get down to a 1⁄2 minute on the second question. That is the norm. Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171451	We have talked about these children's pensions, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that this is a very small number of children, because it sounds like they are incredibly many children. I do not think that anyone else mentioned the number of children, so the rapporteur can confirm that today it is four children who are receiving an orphan's pension and that the total amount is less than DKr 11 000. a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171529	I can confirm that because I have just looked down at the Minister for Finance and he has nodded to us talking about four children. Thank you for the question. I think it is good to have the perspective of what this is all about so that we can discuss these reasonable considerations. It also helps to support this, when we can now hear later in the debate, what the other parties say, that we have to see this as a package together, and that is why it does not work out that you only pick a piece out of the puzzle and assess it hard. There you have to evaluate the whole puzzle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171606	Thank you. There is no further comment to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, and that's Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten, who will be on the platform if he wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503171625	Thank you. As we read the proposal, it contains three parts. Firstly, to transform the current pension scheme, which is of course such a civil servant-like but much more lucrative pension scheme, and to replace it with a pension scheme based on such an occupational pension, in other words, rather like that of most employees in Denmark. It was the same system proposed by the so-called Compensation Commission. It was a remuneration committee set up by a majority in here, which just proposed that we move on to it, because it would create greater transparency about what our salary really was. But when we had to follow on from the political side the recommendations of this remuneration committee, we chose to sort out a number of things. Among other things, they sorted. That is why we still have very, very lucrative pension relationships as members of parliament, but especially as ministers. As other rapporteurs have said, as a minister you earn a full pension in just eight years. And it's probably hard to understand for many citizens. One could also say in relation to this that it must be worthwhile to work, which many are so concerned about, that if you have already earned your pension after 8 years as minister, then no, joke aside. The second part of this is to remove the right of children of former ministers to a pension when their parents, who have been ministers, reach retirement age. And it is true that there are now few people for whom we have raised the pensionable age. So it is perhaps more of a question of principle. We can also support the intention to remove it, because it is not the majority of occupational pensions where it follows. It is true that, in the event of death, there may be pension schemes linked to the occupational pension, but that there is an automatic pension there, I certainly cannot recognise from the occupational pensions I know. Finally, like the third, the proposers write that it should follow the retirement age. And it is true that, fortunately, this has changed, so unfortunately, it does not do so for the politicians who introduced the reforms. In other words, the generation of politicians who adopted the reform of the retirement age can still retire themselves at the age of 60, at least part of them, and that, of course, is a rather dull signal, but it is thought that the basic law stands in the way of changing the pensionable age possibly, but I think we should do it anyway. After all, this is the second citizen's proposal we are dealing with in here, and that is also what has been given the greatest support most quickly. It shows, of course, that this is still a matter of concern to many Danes. And it is not because this is a very large amount of money in a large state financial context, but it is because there is a slightly strong symbol value. In other words, it is a little special that we ourselves, as politicians, legislate on our salaries and pensions. It places a relatively great responsibility on us to actually show moderation, for otherwise it will be viewed with good reason as greedy. And that's why I think it's worth listening to this proposal. The proposal itself is perhaps a little vaguely worded. That is, for example, the case. It is a little unclear whether it is about ministers or members of parliament, because there are ministers in the title, but members of parliament in the text itself. Moreover, as has been shown, ministers can also be ministers without being members of parliament. But there's also the thing about the pedagogues' agreement. I had to check it out, and there are several pension schemes in the pedagogues' agreement, depending on whether you have a leading function or not having it and other things. So there are some ambiguities in the proposal. But that will probably be the case when there are citizens' proposals, and that is why I also understand that there must be some room for manoeuvre for the government if this is adopted here in order to try to produce something that is, as it were, in line with the intention of the proposal. We have always supported the remuneration commission's idea of converting to an occupational pension, and we still think it is a good idea because it creates transparency and it removes excessive privileges that exist today. We still think that this should be done, and we also think that we could look at this with the orphan's pension, even though what has emerged is relatively limited. So we can support the intention of the proposal and will therefore also vote in favour of it. However, as I have said, there are some uncertainties, and we will also explain this in the report and then clarify how it is that we understand the government's need to draft a bill as a result of this resolution if it is adopted. I would just like to conclude by saying that it has been a long journey, as the young people say, from the time when we had a completely unfair relationship, a few years ago, when ministers could have a lifelong pension from the day they stopped as minister, and then today, when fortunately we have cleared up many of the privileges. But it would be sensible if we could take the final step and look at the pension that is too lucrative and get the way we earn it equal to the way in which all other Danes who go to work have largely their pensions. So I hope that this proposal will help us to reconsider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172155	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172201	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur said that it was very quickly that this citizens' proposal was given the 50,000 signatures and that this is something that concerns people. I think that means that people often, for example. Google it to become wiser, and if you google members of parliament and pensions, there is an highlighted result that is extra clear, and it is a website that Enhedslisten owns. The heading on that page is: • Stop the pension hyclerium • And on the page that you then talk about is the following, and I read: Pension age: A single year as a member of the Folketing triggers the right to a lifelong politician's pension. Unlike the rest of the population who have to wait until their retirement age, politicians can obtain a pension from the early retirement age. Thus, if they joined before 2007, they will receive a pension from 60 years of age. If they become members later than 2007, they will receive a pension from 61 years of age. You therefore give the impression that as a member of parliament today you can retire when you are 61 years old. Do you not also have a responsibility to contribute to the fact that people are informed about the changes we have also made here in the Folketing? I think it's so bad that it's the first thing you get into when you google it, and that you haven't made sure to keep it up to date when it's announced as a retirement hypocrite.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172320	Now it is not actually quite wrong what it says, because the rules we have now adopted will come into force from forthcoming meetings. This means that the pension we earn now will, as far as I can immediately calculate, still be triggered away when we reach retirement age, but not if you are elected from the next session or have arrived in the Folketing after 1 July last year I cannot remember that. But summa summarum is that unfortunately it is still the case that very many of us are covered by the old rules, and some are still covered by the rules of being able to go when they are 60 years old. But having said that, if it is unclear that the rules have been changed, that is enough because we have not had the website updated, and of course we must if there is something that is not clear enough. I therefore agree that it is important for this debate to take place on an informed basis. There's no need to whip a mood up. There are parts of this that are not reasonable. We don't have to do that worse than it is, because it's kind of bad enough if we just write it the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172419	I have no desire to whip up any mood either. I have a intention that we inform people correctly. And when you have a website with the title "Stop the Pension Hypocrime," I might really think, if I'm to be honest, that you whip up a mood yourself. As the rules are for me as a member of parliament who was elected at the last election, only the part of my period is ahead of the amendment of the law that I will be able to get paid earlier, and that is, as far as I remember, about one year. So the rest is from the general retirement age. I think that at least one has a duty to provide information on the new rules, and I look forward to seeing that Enhedslisten gets it done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172453	In fact, it was not the rapporteur that I accused of whiping up a mood. It was, in fact, an attempt at self-criticism by saying that, of course, things must be seen as they are. It is also true that a great many politicians of the generation who adopted a higher retirement age for the Danes themselves can leave early. We have had problems with that several times. That's part of the truth. But in addition to that, it is of course very important that the websites that we have, which mention this here, describe the situation as it is. On the subject of pension hypocrisy, I would say that I still think there is hypocrisy in our being so busy looking after public expenditure while we have such lucrative conditions and a quick recovery of pensions. But I will certainly make sure that I have a look at the website in question and make sure that it is up to date so that we do not contribute to myths in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172553	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172554	It's kind of on the same street. Because I've also been looking at Enhedslisten's website, where there is a reference to a new website called pensionhysteriet.dk. So one of my questions is: What does Enhedslisten actually think the remuneration should be? For you are also confusing the remuneration and the cost supplement. At least I think I have expenses for the cost supplement I have, but it may be that you do not have it in the Enhedslisten. But when I'm around a lot, there are also some expenses, and I don't take any fees when I'm around doing my political work. So what does Enhedslisten really think is the real level of remuneration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172638	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172639	We have not, above all, been critical of the remuneration, that is to say, the general salary. One can easily discuss whether it should be lower or higher, and we would not mind putting it down, but that is not what has been our main criticism. If you compare the remuneration of Members of Parliament with what they receive in other countries of Europe, then we are certainly not at the top of the list. We would like to discuss whether it should be lower and also something about how to regulate it and things like that. In relation to the cost supplement, the remuneration commission pointed out that the problem with that is that the costs that it was intended to cover are covered by other means, at least as far as I know. If you are going to another part of the country to hold a public meeting, for example. If you have to take a plane, I think it can already be covered by the Folketing, and there are a number of other expenses that can be covered. We also have train cards that allow us to transport ourselves around and things like that, and we have computer and telephone available. That is why we voted in favour of the SF's previous proposal to replace this flat-rate cost supplement with a model to cover the costs that we now have. So it was certainly an attempt at an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172745-2	Now at least some of us are moving around to different things, where we do not fly or drive trains, and if we are going to bring the car over here for once, it is also at our own expense. So not everything is free. In relation to what the rapporteur also said about those who have helped to earn it: if you look at the age of the people who have helped to have the old rules, you can see that most of them are well over 60 years old. I myself am on my way to 71 years of age, so it is not possible to say that I am receiving my pension retroactively at the age of 60. But has the Enhedslisten looked at the seniority of the oldest members of parliament when they say that a great many of the present can retire at the age of 60?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172834	Great praise to those who stand by. We also have some in my parliamentary group who do, and I also got into trouble once when I tried to challenge the former Finance Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen. Because he could tell me that he himself was already well above that age, so he certainly didn't get anything out of it. But it is clear that there are some examples, and I do not know whether we should mention names here, but a Mr. Morten Østergaard and a Mrs Margrethe Vestager. There are many who have led those reforms and if they had the opportunity to do so, perhaps the radical rapporteur could say that I think they are in favour of their own pension conditions being similar to those of others. But there were a number of people who were in charge of the change in the retirement age of the ordinary Dane, but have not themselves been affected by it. It's of course small change, and it's a few people, but I just don't think it looks so pretty. I would have liked us to have been able to make a change which had also applied to the people who had already earned. Some felt that it would be unconstitutional and that it would be an expropriation, and there has been a discussion about this. I think it would have been a good signal if the reformers themselves had also been affected by the reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172942	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no more brief comments, and I would like to welcome a farmer from Sinding to the platform, Mr President. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503172951	Thank you. In my party, we voted in favour of the possibility of making citizens' proposals. Now we've had a few, and there's probably more coming. That is why I really think there is reason to say that when a citizen's proposal has come forward with the necessary support, it is an example of a flow, a feeling, a feeling, or whatever it may be that concerns people and that you notice out there. This may also be the result of some misinterpretings and also a little envy and may be on top of the politician-led one that we often talk about. It is difficult to say, but it is here at least, and I think we should take it seriously, that there is the view that something is unreasonable. I would like to say that we stand by the agreement reached last time, which has led to the rules we have now and which the Minister of Finance has examined very well and thoroughly. So we should not try to repeat that, I think. However, as several speakers have said, there was also a remuneration commission, and there I think there is reason to consider whether it was a mistake not to take the remuneration commission's recommendations at face value and to implement them, because, as has been suggested here, it is perhaps wrong for us to adopt our own rules ourselves. It can be said, when you have a commission that makes recommendations, that it should be adopted in the Folketing, but if you took the recommendations of the Pay Commission, it was like an overall, external assessment that had led to that result, and thus you could not to the same extent suspicious it as when the Folketing itself had been in the process of doing it and taking some of it out, using something and putting it aside. It seems to me that, when we are dealing with this, it is perhaps a factor in the fact that the perception is spreading that there is something in imbalance. I think everyone deserves what they get. Now, the headline here is "Minister's pension and pension for ministerial children," but I think we can say that ministers work long and hard. They're being driven around, you might say, and that's pretty much for 24 hours. So there's nothing that's not well deserved. I am not saying that the balance could not have been different between pensions and wages, but there is nothing that is not well deserved in my best opinion. In relation to what else is being made in business or elsewhere, I do not think it is in any way high here. But the balance could easily help me to look at it. Then, when you read this proposal, you can also mention that there was a transition where there was a hugely heated debate about this on Facebook, which went a long way out, and it was, in fact, very much about misunderstandings. After all, the impression was made that they followed the line, that there were not the children of a minister who did not receive a pension, etc., and fortunately it has been discovered that it is very limited. Then I think we should note that part of the perception that may be out there is related to some of what some of you have also said, that is, what the rules were like, but that we should now consider what they are like today and that a number of changes have taken place which have also led to a greater degree of fairness than there was before. I think we can forgive that. So we stand by the vote agreement there is, and that is why, of course, we cannot support the proposal. But I think it gives cause for reflection, and we can then see if we can find out together at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173356	Thank you. There are few short remarks • Nah, there are several. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173403	Thank you. The Kingdom of Denmark got some new ministers going • among other things. a new Minister for the Environment and Food and a new Minister for Research and Education. During the next year, when the two are ministers, one will earn at least DKr 300,000. more in pension than the other because that person is a member of the Folketing at the same time. What is it in the two tasks of everyday life that proves that one must have so much more pension than the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173444	The fact that ministers are also members of the Folketing is, of course, like a slightly different discussion, because now we have a democratic system here where it is possible. It could have been different. It could well be that ministers were part of a government and were not a member of the Folketing. Now we have that system, which is why they can of course be. In any case, to discuss whether it is fair or not, I can say that being a minister or just a member of parliament also has some other costs, which, of course, means that there is no notice period. As a minister, you come to the queen, and then it's over, or you as a member of parliament in an election, you don't get re-elected. There is no termination as there are in ordinary jobs etc. And there are a number of things you have to interrupt, especially on the day you become a minister. I assume that everyone is aware that many of the points of contact and tasks that you have had must cease when you become a minister. So there are also costs which we are talking about here, and which I do not think are being taken into account. I do not know whether that is what has been weighted, but that may be a reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173554-2	What I mean is the problem, of course, is that you are set off against your Parliament when you get ministerial approval because you do not have to have a double salary, but you have just forgotten your pension. After all, you still earn a pension as a member of parliament, even if you make no other effort in the Folketing than to sit and press the voting buttons twice a week. I just want to know whether the rapporteur, as a representative of a party that is concerned with taking care of the citizens' money and ensuring that not too much money is spent, thinks it is a fair remuneration for that effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173631	This could well be one of the areas we should be looking at if we are to keep the balance that the Minister of Finance talked about and which I have mentioned here and which could be worth considering. In my view, however, this would require more attention to have been paid to the recommendations of the remuneration commission, which would mean a substantial increase in wages and then a balance in pensions. It's not right for us just to pick a single item out to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173656	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173657	The rapporteur says that everyone deserves what they get, but for me it is not really so much about what you deserve, because how do you decide that? For me, it is important that there is transparency for citizens and that the conditions in here do not run completely away from what other people have. And that is where I think it is obvious that, as a minister, in addition to an income of, as far as I know, the good side of a million or so can at least earn a full pension of 8 years, that is, the same as it takes every other employee a lifetime to earn. Is that not where we are on the wrong side of the balance that the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173748	I think we should avoid hypocrisy and say that it is extremely high. In other words, if you compare the responsibilities and workload of a minister with those in business who have a pension scheme linked to their payroll, then the latter have considerably higher earnings than we see in here at all. So I think we should stop producing it as if it were a special area. It's not a special area. There are plenty of ministers who have to negotiate with people from business, etc. who earn considerably more than they do themselves. So it is not, to the best of my knowledge, a fair presentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173820	It is true that some of the bonus and pension schemes that exist in the bosses are in place. And if we are to start comparing those salaries, it may well be that ministers' pensions should be increased. However, I now think it is important to remember that we are here as representatives of the citizens. I mean, it's not a business business that we've created or started. We have been elected to represent the citizens, and that is why I think it is important that our terms do not run away from them. It should not be the case that this is not fair relations. That is not at all what I am talking about. But what is the problem in converting our pension savings into something similar to an occupational pension, that is, where we get a salary, and then we pay out the employer side or the employee side ourselves and save our own pension out of that salary, just like all other employees or at least the vast majority do?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503173923	Now Mr. Pelle Dragsted that we represent the citizens. Those I mention, who earn considerably more than a minister comes near at all, are also some of the citizens, and in fact there are quite a few of them. So I do not think it is at all fair to present it as if there is something very special in that relationship. So I'm just saying, if there's even to be reasonableness and balance in it, it might be • then you have to look at both the fee and the pension at the same time. That is the reasonableness that has been tried. Whether you have hit right or not, I have allowed myself to say that is worth philosophing or considering, also in the light of the fact that it is a citizen's proposal that reflects the feelings or sensations or perceptions that are out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174002	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174004	Thank you to the rapporteur. That is what I really wanted to ask about the remuneration commission. Does this mean that the Liberal Alliance could be prepared to resume negotiations on the remuneration commission, possibly after a forthcoming election?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174024-2	Of course, we stand by the voting agreement there is. Surely we could help to balance the assessment of more closely following the recommendations of the Pay Commission, if the parties with which we have reached a vote agreement are prepared to re-evaluate the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174043	Will the Liberal Alliance call on the other parties involved in the vote agreement to resume discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174054	It may well be a reflection.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174058	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174059	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is talking about pensions and other things, and I think you can explain that to people. It's just a little problematic to explain to people the fact that ministers' children also get a share of the pension. Does the Minister know about anywhere in the private sector, where there are some who have some pension schemes, where children also get part of the pension, as in the civil service?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174124	I have no in-depth knowledge of it. Now I don't know what the Minister knows about it. I'm not a minister, so I don't have to answer that at all. However, there are plenty of different schemes linked to employment, etc., with which there are also insurance schemes. I do not think we can stand by and say that this is one place, but not the other place. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174148	But if we are now talking, as was also mentioned, about very, very few children, and if we can now see that this creates so much confusion, does the rapporteur not think that it would really be wise to remove it if we had to look at this? Because we are talking about a very small amount. Would it not be wise for us to talk about such a small amount of money and so few people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174209	Now, if I raise the figures in relation to each other, it almost eliminates itself. You have to reach retirement age, and it's almost 68 years old, and you have to have children under 21, so it's pretty much self-defeating, I can see if I start adding the numbers like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174227	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. There are no more brief remarks or questions. I would like to welcome Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174250	Thank you. This is, after all, another citizen's proposal, which has therefore received 50,000 signatures and which we are therefore discussing in the Chamber, and it is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the abolition of ministerial pensions and pensions for ministerial children. Let me say straight away that the alternative fully supports the intention of this proposal. We do this because we believe that there should be transparency in our pay and pension relationships. We compare ourselves to the civil servant's pension, which we didn't follow 100%. There is another gain for members of parliament and ministers where there is a faster profit than there are for normal officials, but civil servants are also a group that is becoming smaller and smaller because the ordinary civil servant's appointment has largely been abolished except in the defence and police sectors. So it's somehow inappropriate... we think we're following that pension scheme. On the other hand, we would very much like to propose, as the citizens' proposal here also makes it possible to follow an occupational pension. The proposal here makes it clear that it must be the occupational pension of the educators and, as the former rapporteur from the Enhedslisten has said, there are different pension schemes in that occupational pension, depending on whether you are a manager or a private employee. That is why we think it is right that we should make a contribution to the report, either in conjunction with the Enhedslisten or for ourselves in the Alternative, where we say that what is important to us is to follow the thinking of this proposal that we should follow an occupational pension. In our view, this will increase transparency in relation to the pension schemes of members of parliament and ministers, and what is absolutely crucial for us is that there is transparency in how we are paid and what pension we get. Then I fully agree with some of the rapporteurs who have said that things are connected. There is something about wages and there is something about pensions, and that is why I think it would be so beneficial if we followed the remuneration commission's approach, because that balance has just been taken into account. Now I've only been in here since the last election in 2015, but I think that somehow it's incredibly much time we spend discussing it here, and I would like it to be resolved once and for all, so that there is this transparency, so that we also have our tax-free deduction removed and have them converted into a gross salary that is completely transparent and that people can understand: what does a member of parliament get paid, what is the social pension they have, what is the retirement pension there, etc.? which follows the terms of employment of ordinary people. So we support it, but we will also make a contribution to the report, in which we write that we think there should be an occupational pension that suits the individual occupational groups in here, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174622	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174630	I and the Radical Left are very much in line with the alternative as far as this is concerned. We would like to thank you for the citizens' proposal and for the great interest in our working conditions in here at Christiansborg and in the government. We are among the parties who are really rather annoyed that we did not follow the work of the Commission, as many have said, in a balanced package, for the many reasons mentioned by both the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and the Alternative and others. This means, therefore, that both the Minister and the members of parliament will be able to agree to the general objective, if I may say so, in this citizens' proposal, that both the Minister and the members of parliament will be subject to occupational pension conditions, but that, on the other hand, we can only see ourselves in it if, at the same time, we look at the remuneration that is then so that, overall, we get a balance in it and so that we do not just go out and cut fairly dramatically in the remuneration that is being given today and that is to be comparable to the management remuneration elsewhere in society. It may therefore be that the good solution here is a contribution to the report. In any case, we will be forced to vote no if it ends in a mere vote, but a declaration of intent to try to approach the recommendations of the Commission we could see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174804	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174807	Well, I think that would be interesting to look at, because there are actually many parties here who have said that there are corners, and I also heard from both the Liberal Alliance and others that you could look at elements so that it might actually be interesting to discuss in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I am not sitting in the UFO myself, but for those who do, it might be interesting to discuss whether there is a way forward here. But once again, just to understand exactly what I am hearing from the rapporteur, the rapporteur still thinks that the whole thing should be looked at. But if we just look at ministers in isolation... the rapporteur himself has tried to be in the good position... then we will see that there is a good salary. I don't think anyone disagrees with that. Is it fair that you earn a full pension in eight years? Or was it fair to say that one earned it at a lower rate? In other words, could one not look at it without having to raise the salary for ministers? Or does the rapporteur think that this should always be the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174908	As several speakers have said, there are many elements in it, and I really think that, when you dive into the work of the Commission, you can see that there is an overall balance in that too. These include the points that Mr. Pelle Dragsted is mentioned, addressed in the middle of an overall balancing that we could also see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503174929	I'm not quite sure I got an answer. It is more just to understand it, if we should work on it, we can also do it in committee, or you can do it in committee that I ask. Is it like a condition for the Radical Left that if you have to look at the pension scheme for ministers and members of parliament, as to how quickly they earn the pension? When comparing it with civil servants, they are approx. Is it possible to look at it four times as quickly as members of parliament to earn the same amount of money, without at the same time leading to wage compensation in the two cases, or is it inextricably linked to the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175009	I must say with shame that I simply do not recall what the Commission is recommending in this respect. However, as I recall just now, there is also some balance on the part of the Commission in this area. But I would be inclined, precisely because of the beauty that will be in following some recommendations from someone who is not a politician, to follow the recommendations that are in the Commission, although I do not recall on a stand-by basis exactly what they recommend in that area. But my impression was, and is, that overall, the spirit of what the Commission proposed was, of course, that one should approach oneself, one might say, the conditions of the surrounding society as much as possible, knowing that both members of parliament and ministers are working under special conditions. So, in respect of that, I will probably be inclined to follow the commission; it is not to speak out; I just can't remember exactly what they recommend here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175059	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard, and welcome to Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175109	Thank you for that, and thank you to the proposers who have made this citizens' proposal and who have quickly received 50,000 votes. I think sir... Leif Mikkelsen is right that, when these citizens' proposals come up, they are an expression of currents, something that matters to people and something that we politicians ought to listen to, and at least continue to do. That is why I do not necessarily believe that everything in the citizens' proposal should be taken and said that it is either that or nothing. In fact, I think that these citizens' proposals are best respected if you take them into the political machinery spaces to clarify what the intentions of this citizens' proposal are and look at how we get it done in a way that makes it sharp. These people who have made the citizens' proposal, I do not have a whole administration behind them either. So I actually think that one of the good things about citizens' proposals is that we can get some inspiration and then work on it. However, the intention of the citizens' proposal is clear to me, and that is to make the pension conditions of politicians more transparent and fairer. I am actually pleased that today virtually all the rapporteurs have said that there is no transparency in the pay and pension conditions of politicians today, and we need to change that. Then why is it not fair to have these pension conditions? I simply do not think it is fair that within eight years a minister can earn the same lifelong pension that an ordinary employee must spend a full working life on, nor do I think it is fair that a member of parliament can do so in 20 years. I think it would be fair for us, like everyone else on the labour market, to receive a salary or, in this case, a salary and pay a fixed part of it into a pension scheme which we can then be paid out later. I think it will make it more transparent. This citizens' proposal is about pensions, but I think there are other conditions in the terms of salaries and pensions of politicians that should also be looked at. In the SF, we believe that the tax-free supplement should be abolished and a system should be set up to reimburse one's expenses. We believe that we should look at politicians who receive a double standard and say that we should no longer be able to do so, and then we think that it should be impossible to receive a copy of the recommendation if we move into a new job. It is a rule that has already been made for ministers and members of parliament. There is a little set-off at the beginning, but we think that should also apply to Regional Council Presidents, mayors and so on. So this citizen's proposal is about pensions, which we ought to put on an equal footing, but there's more to look at, and that's why I really think that the parliamentary parties should get back together and find answers to how we can make these schemes fairer. I would actually like to say if that's what it takes to break a little bit in this political debate that when we said yes to that remuneration commission in the SF, and when it was then leaked that part of the recommendations were to raise the salary by 18%, I think that SF should have had more ice in the stomach than we had at that time. It is clear that when there is such a headline that now you want to raise the salaries of politicians by 18%, it is difficult to explain, and I do not agree that it should necessarily have been raised by 18%, but what was missing in that story was that some privileges were then also granted, precisely the tax-free supplement, and that it was said that we are now fundamentally changing our pension schemes. In fact, I believe that we should have had more ice in our stomachs, because I believe that basically it could have led to an agreement where some fairer conditions had been created and one could have gone all the way. That is why I think that either before an election or after an election, we should reopen the discussion on how to get the last part of it. So let us now get the last of it and get it equal to the ordinary labour market. I hope we can take that discussion. I do not think it is possible to take any more recommendations from the Pay Commission 1:1, and I do not think we should do that either. It has already been said in the agreement reached last time that politicians must have their salaries adjusted and increased, and the remuneration commission did not take that into account at the time. We must enter into an honest debate and say: let us now get the same, let us look at abolishing the tax-free supplement, let us look at getting equal pension schemes, and let us see how that will affect remuneration. I think that would be a good debate so that we can close this once and for all and have more transparency about the arrangements we have. But this citizen's proposal and its intentions, we can easily support it, and I think it sounds like a good idea to have a report made which, like answers to how we can work on this in broad terms in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175554	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175558	Thank you. Now, in his speech, the rapporteur goes a little further than just what the proposal is actually about, and that is why I should like to ask you a little wider. The rapporteur mentioned the possibility of demanding that there should be no double standards. So, this is what happens when you sit both in a municipal council and in the Folketing, so it should not be possible to obtain remuneration from both places. I assume that the logic is that you get remuneration from the Folketing, and that is why you do not need remuneration from anywhere else. But I just want to know if you want to take the logic right out there, where you say: Ole Sohn, who had a publisher for many years while at the same time sitting in the Folketing and doing his job there. And there are members today who have business next door. You can't do that, can you? For it is a similar effort that is being made in addition to its parliamentary work. Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175649	I am glad that Mrs Mette Abildgaard is asking, because we wrote clearly in our motion about this, that, of course, you have to be able to get a private salary next door. What we say in our proposal is: If you have a full-time political office, it is the remuneration for what you can get. There are several reasons for this. One reason is that we are opposed to political double mandates and that we believe that by regulating in this way there will also be fewer political double mandates in the future. We believe that the remuneration paid for a full-time job is high enough to cover the other political tasks as well. Then there is such a thing as the question of fundamental democracy in it. I would like more people to be in the political positions in Denmark. That is why it is also slightly different from that of the private sector. I would like it not to be the same people who sit in the Folketing, in the City Council and in the Regional Council. I think there should be more people to be mouthpieces and more people to vote for, which is why I am against double mandates. There is the abolition of double standards one way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175750	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175751	I basically disagree with this double mandate, which I think can contribute very well and healthy to our democracy, but I simply do not fully understand the logic. Because if the logic is that being a member of parliament is a full-time office that takes up your full-time time, then the consequence must be that you have to concentrate your strength there and that you should not have other mandates around it. Given the logic that it is a full-time office to be a member of parliament, I do not understand why one can so well recognise that Members have private employment next door. It goes beyond the work of the Folketing, one must assume according to the logic that is being adopted here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175827	First of all, it is very difficult for us to know how much we put into a private office. Secondly, we are concerned that we are opposed to double mandates and that we want to ensure that there are different people in different political positions, and we believe that the abolition of double remuneration will be a way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175850	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175852	Thank you. It is also a matter of understanding, because I heard what the rapporteur said, so that you would have to have a remuneration and that, regardless of the remuneration, you would have to pay for a pension scheme. Now I'm on a church council, and it's not something that gives it a big deal next door, but I'm a contact person, so I'm also the one who makes wage agreements, and there you pay a salary, and then it's the employer who pays the pension bill on the 18%. So what did the rapporteur say about a possible new parliamentary statute, and who should pay to the pension fund? Is it the state, or is it the MP, regardless of remuneration, who has to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175931	So, the arrangement I was going to propose was actually the one we were discussing last time, Mr President. Henrik Sass Larsen had a proposal that one should be able to choose oneself, namely that one has a fixed remuneration, and in addition, the State pays a fixed percentage of the remuneration into a pension scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503175950	After all, this cannot be compared with the rest of the labour market, where you have your salary, and then the pension scheme goes side by side, and then you talk about a net wage and a gross salary. So how am I supposed to understand that? Should some of the remuneration be withheld, and what are we going to tell the public? How will it become more transparent, as the rapporteur is talking about now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180016	That is how I understood the recommendations of the Salaries Commission, and the recommendations of the Salaries Commission were precisely about creating more transparency. So I think it will create more transparency to say that we have a remuneration and, in addition, there is a fixed percentage of the remuneration paid into a pension scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180041	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark, and welcome to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180049	Thank you, it's nice to feel welcome. Thank you for a good debate on this citizens' proposal, which is indeed the second of its kind that we will have the opportunity to discuss in this Chamber. The Conservative People's Party stands on as authors of the motion, and we do so in respect of the fact that we have been involved in introducing this arrangement, which the President also mentioned at the outset, but that does not necessarily mean that we support the citizens' proposal. And neither do we in this particular case. I think the debate we have had today has been quite interesting. It is obvious when a proposal like this gets so many signatures in such a short time that there is something burned in people's minds that there is a frustration, but also that there are some misunderstandings and some myths. We ourselves are also helping to talk about the lack of transparency, so it is not, after all, more opaque. There is a basic salary, there is a cost charge, and there is a pension scheme which depends on how many years you have been sitting in here. And that's basically what's in it. I agree that the recommendations of the Pay Commission could have given a further simplification; I could easily welcome that, and I could have a wish for that too, but I also think we have an obligation not to talk it up and make the system we have today more mysterious than it is after all. In the proposal we are discussing today, this is the desire to abolish the Minister's pension and convert it to, for example, what the educators have. I believe, as Mrs Karen J. Klint also said, that this should be seen as a package in relation to pay and pensions. Then there's this in relation to the kids. I also think it is important to point out, as was also done in the past, that there are quite a few children involved. In fact, as a politician, we could be tempted to say: should we not just abolish it? Well, do we want all the trouble, all the negative articles in the Ekstrabladet, because that's when we have kids? But somewhere else it is important in principle to maintain that it is not something special for us politicians; it is another area where we follow the conditions that apply to many other public servants, to civil servants, etc. I have been discussing this recently, when I was brought to the attention of a social worker who, unfortunately, had recently died at an early age, whose children today receive this child's pension. It's much more common than what I think we're imagining in here at Christiansborg. Speaking of what I mentioned at the outset in relation to misunderstandings and myths, I think it is a little unfortunate that such a citizen's proposal as this, to some extent, contributes to conveying a misunderstanding. Because this citizens' proposal says that the retirement age of members of parliament and ministers must be made the same as that of the rest of the population, and we have done so. We did that about a year ago. It has been implemented. Then I understand that it is for the new generation of politicians and not necessarily for those who have been sitting in here for many years. I think we should consider whether to some extent we should offer some kind of qualification in relation to some of these citizens' proposals, because I think it is in everyone's interest that we do not pass on misunderstandings and errors. I, too, as a politician, have been called by a lot of journalists who, with reference to this citizens' proposal, say: when are you going to have the same retirement age? And there I say: well, we have got it, it has been introduced. So I do not think it should be underestimated that the fact that this is being put forward as a citizen's proposal helps to convey the misunderstanding that it has not been corrected and that it is not the same today, for it is fortunately. I think it has been a long journey as expressed with such an X Factor metaphor. I have not been on so much of the journey, but I think it is very good that we have at least reached that point. So with these comments, we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support this citizens' proposal, but thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180504	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180509	Thank you. What does the rapporteur think is the difference in the workload between being a minister and a member of parliament at the same time and being a minister alone? What difference in workload does the two different constellations make?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180529	I have to admit, I'm having a hard time commenting on that, because I haven't tried it. The ministers we have in the Conservative People's Party are not members of parliament at the same time, so I find it difficult to reflect in them and their work; so I find that difficult to assess.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180550	So, if the rapporteur can now confirm that, in principle at least, the only difference is that, as a minister who is also a member of parliament, one can also vote in the Chamber, while one cannot participate in the committee work and everything else that we, as Members of Parliament, do, the rapporteur thinks it is right that one should earn a pension for one's membership while one is a minister, and therefore receive a rather disgusting pension for voting alone in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180622	But it is quite true that it is probably a very good hourly wage if the effort is only to press the button in the Parliamentary Chamber, and if that is the case, I can quite easily follow the arguments put forward by the questioner. In fact, I was not aware that this was the case. I was very concerned when the questioner asked about it earlier. I had actually imagined that there was a higher level of set-off. But frankly, this is not something we have had the opportunity to discuss in our parliamentary group, so I cannot say anything on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180646	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180649	Actually, I wasn't aware of that either, so thank you, Mr. Simpson. Jeppe Jacobsen to bring it out. However, there is a set-off in the payment, so that if you have been receiving both one and the other pension for many years, there is a ceiling that will set it off to some extent. But this is clearly another corner that should be looked at, and that is actually what my question to the rapporteur is about. Now we are talking about travel, so I want to hear: does the rapporteur think that we have arrived at our final destination when it comes to these conditions, that is, pay and pensions, or does the Minister think that we could make another stop, for example? look at the very rapid recovery of pensions we have, or for example. on this, that mayors can raise fees for board posts and other things on top of a now significantly higher mayor's salary? That was also one of the suggestions made by the Salaries Commission. In other words, is there a will in the Conservative People's Party to say that we should look at the corners that are still helping in some way to create a for the people's regime not so fortunate debate out in the small homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180802	I shall not be able to say what the Minister thinks, as I think the questioner came to say at some point, but I can say what I myself think. Let me start with this set-off, because I also have some doubts as to whether the rules are correctly understood by the previous questioner. From what I have read myself in preparation for this debate, I have clearly been given the impression that there is a set-off. But it may be that we can clarify it later; it may be that I have misunderstood it. To Mr. Pelle Dragsted: Sorry, no, the journey is by no means finished. I and the Conservative People's Party believe that there are elements on which we still need to adjust. The rapporteur himself cites one of the examples that I find difficult to explain: why, as mayor or chairman of the Regional Council, you should be paid for board posts which you hold by virtue of the office you hold. It is simply difficult to explain logically why it should be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180856	I think that sounds very good, because we actually put forward a proposal for the local elections to do something about it. In fact, I do not remember how the Conservative People's Party stood there. But that was actually one of the things the remuneration commission proposed, namely that we raise the salary for mayors by 30%, and in return it should be offset against this. And then the Folketing did what many again, I think, will see as a little sloppy, if one can say so, namely that they said yes to the 30%, but would not do anything about the fees. But I acknowledge that the Conservative People's Party is also in agreement that we can look at this again calmly. I think it is very good that we can go somewhere and I also sign here for the rapporteur's question to myself when I was up there where we can take this debate quietly and on a factual basis. I think that would be good for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503180948	In the Conservative People's Party, we are, of course, completely at the goal of the agreement we are part of, but that is why we can be open about the fact that there are precisely some things that can be adjusted to and that we are willing to look at. I must admit that I do not really remember the debate then either. Perhaps there were other considerations too. I do not remember exactly the proposal, but I actually remember that the Enhedslisten also later made some proposals which I believe were in relation to the wishes of members of the Regional Council and mayors, that is, that there were also some things that did not make sense, as we also expressed on the part of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181020	Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181023	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of any type of pay in the private labour market where someone has said to his employer in connection with a pension negotiation: I would like to have a pension scheme where my children are also paid. I would like to know: has the rapporteur ever heard of this in the private sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181047	I have never discussed this theme with anyone, so I have not heard one or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181055	The reason why I don't think this is happening is because when a debate is going on, you do what you do, you make sure you get it home. The money you negotiate in place will be provided with an insurance scheme. And then it is actually funny why it should not apply to ministers when it comes to private business. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181117	I have my doubts as to whether specific questions are again being asked about children and how they will be put in the event of death, which the rapporteur has in any case asked others about in the past. I do not think you should imagine that the relatively small amount of money you get is 30,000 kroner in death. a year, you get a • is what makes the children financially sound for the rest of their lives. So I assume that the vast majority of people make personal insurance schemes in the event of death, for example. I've done that personally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181148	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. I see no more people wishing to speak, so the debate is now closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And if any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180503181206	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting than to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 4 May 2018, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
