ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u1	The meeting was called to order. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second plenary session that we hold during the days of official mourning for each and every one of the people who died in our country as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and to accompany their relatives and loved ones. We owe them our efforts to deal with this situation and our exemplary behavior as public servants. It unites us all with the will to overcome the crisis and to strengthen the prestige of the institutions. The health emergency is not over. Today, all of Spain has overcome the most severe restrictions, but the situation remains of extraordinary alertness and of necessary commitment to those who continue to work for the safety and health of all, to whom once again I want to convey the gratitude of all citizens, a gratitude that we extend to those who responsibly remain attentive to the fulfilment of the instructions of the health authorities, thus safeguarding not only their life and health, but also that of their fellow citizens in greatest danger. We begin this plenary session by joining in a minute of silence in memory of the deceased and accompanying their families. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u2	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 17, corresponding to the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, after the end of the health emergency of COVID-19. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The reference point is therefore excluded. ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE: - Application for authorisation of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March for the state of alarm for the management of the state of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April, 514/2020 of 8 May and 537/2020 of 22 May. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u3	Discussion of the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April, 514/2020 of 8 May and 537/2020 of 22 May. I should like to inform you that the proposals concerning the request for authorisation of the extension of the state of alarm will be voted upon at the end of the debate on the first item on the agenda. In order to state the reasons for the request for extension, the name of the Government is given by the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to begin by conveying on behalf of the Government of Spain our condolences to the families of the victims of the accident that occurred yesterday in the town of La Hiniesta. As you know, the accident occurred when an Alvia train, which made its way from Ferrol to Madrid, impacted with the vehicle of a private person who had rushed from a high step to the road of the Zamora-Ourense line. Most of the passengers are already in their homes, but they must have suffered unbearable moments of panic and hope that they will recover physically and emotionally as soon as possible. Regrettably, the sinister has taken the lives of two people, who today deserve our consideration and our tribute, and their families all our affection and all our support. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, we have spent the worst months in the history of our democracy. They have had an incalculable intensity, as has the debate that we have had throughout the various extensions to the state of alarm, which have transformed our perception - also this debate and these very intense days - of time. It's only been three months, it's seemed like an infinite time. Today, we can say with caution, with the utmost caution, that we have overcome the worst moments of a pandemic that is now astounding the world. Spain has been hit hard by it, but today we can say, ladies and gentlemen, the worst has happened. On numerous occasions I have expressed to you my pride in presiding over the Government of Spain. We have managed to overcome as a community, as a society, as a country the pandemic, with the effort, with the resistance, with social discipline and also with the moral of victory of the whole Spanish citizenry. The Spanish have proved, ladies and gentlemen, to be a responsible society, in solidarity, despite the cruelty of the moment. They've been able to beat the virus day by day, week by week. Since 11 March - when the World Health Organization declared the world pandemic by COVID-19 - the Government has had, as you know, no other effort, no other task, no other desire, no other goal than to save lives to save our country's life. Past experience and also what we are seeing in other parts of the world - even in such important powers, as relevant as the United States - show that there has been and there is no government in the world prepared for this shock. The situation has been radically new. The rules were not only new but everything about the virus was to be discovered. From the beginning we decided to look at the front, face the virus and leave no one behind. We all work, all institutions, the whole country without rest to protect and alleviate the lives of our fellow citizens. The health emergency was an unquestionable emergency. There is no country or economy if there is no health and if there is no health service for all. Today, ladies and gentlemen, 239,932 people have been infected in Spain, of which 150,376 are now cured, fortunately. Our health care system was on the verge of collapse and needed to be strengthened immediately. Since the beginning of this crisis, we have allocated EUR 1 billion to public health in the hands of the autonomous communities, strengthening also the liquidity of the autonomous communities as well as the recruitment of personnel and materials. The Government is today negotiating with the various parliamentary groups precisely that non-refundable fund where much of that EUR 16 billion will also go to public health, in the hands of the autonomous communities. But that front, ladies and gentlemen, was not enough, it was necessary to avoid the contagions, it was necessary to stop that upward curve on which we saw ourselves for terrible weeks, very intense and which, by the way, seemed unstoppable, and for this we all had to limit some of our freedoms. We all had to drastically change our behavior, our social behavior, restrict displacements, limit encounters, confine citizens and close and interrupt the economic activities described in the alarm decree as non-essential. There was no other way to beat the virus. We assume one of the strictest confinements in Europe and the West, the strictest. It was necessary to stop almost everything to stop the spread of the virus. It has been tremendously hard, ladies and gentlemen, but we can conclude that it has also been tremendously effective; the most effective tool because today we are frankly better, leaving the tunnel once and for all. What the Government is proposing is a new and final extension of the state of alarm, thanks to that constitutional instrument, the state of alarm, regulated in article 116 of our Constitution. Today we can also make a positive assessment of the descalation. The lifting of restrictions and measures applied at different stages has not yet - and also with the utmost prudence - had a negative impact on the evolution of the pandemic. We have been able to gradually approach that new normality and to gain ground in front of the virus at the same time. We are carrying out a de-escalation that we have described by the Government from the beginning as gradual and intelligent, moderating risks and strengthening security. Citizenship has also assumed - with an extraordinary civic sense that I would like to highlight - the rules and has adapted to this transition in record time. Obviously, the Government will remain vigilant because the virus is still circulating among us. We will continue to call for prudence, prudence and prudence. We will remain alert until the risk disappears and then we will also continue to work on learning for new pandemics that we have a duty to prevent. We know, ladies and gentlemen, what it means to stop a country in the midst of a health emergency. We knew what their effects might be, we had to assume them as a society, fighting them from the very beginning in the same way that we have fought against the virus. I think it has become clear that the social shield, that social network that we have launched, had the firm purpose from the beginning of cushioning the fall as a result of the strict confinement that we have self-imposed: not to leave anyone homeless, without food, without resources. In short, protect to strengthen our social architecture, allow a healthy, competitive economic fabric not to crumble completely; allow it the future, preserve progress, consequently the common good. Now, ladies and gentlemen, that we are approaching the end of this health emergency - with all caution, I say again, with which we can affirm this - is the time to make some balances that during the boom of the pandemic were sterile, useless and even counterproductive. One of the balances is that of the deceased during this crisis. The official figures, established strictly following the parameters of the World Health Organization, tell us that the number of deaths in our country by COVID-19 is 27 127 compatriots. This figure - I would like to emphasise this - comes from the data provided by the Autonomous Communities and under the strict protocol of the World Health Organization assumed by the Government of Spain. The Ministry of Health does not carry out its own calculations, it simply collects the data submitted by the autonomous health administrations, which are competent in the area of autonomous health, and contrasts them in accordance with the protocol adopted by the Government of Spain of the World Health Organization. In this figure are computed all those who died who underwent a COVID-19 test and gave positive in it. Of course, your memory, ladies and gentlemen, as the Spanish Government has said so many times, will remain in our memory, and once the whole country is in new normality, the State will carry out a State ceremony. Throughout the health emergency there have been, it is true, various variations in the statistics of the infected, the hospitalized, the patients cared for in the ICU and also the lethality. The changes corresponded exclusively to the purpose of homogenizing data that were collected in each place with heterogeneous criteria. In some autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen, the number of infected persons was attributed to the date of receipt of the data and in others to the date of completion of the test, for only one example of this heterogeneity. One of the tasks and one of the lessons that we have to learn as a result of this health emergency and the management of it is that we have before us the need to perfect and integrate our health statistical systems in a much more efficient way. The full competence of the Autonomous Communities in the field of health in our territorial model - which, by the way, I defend, I defend, the composite State, I defend, that the health system in the hands of the Autonomous Communities has worked, despite the very important attack of this pandemic - must be compatible with a harmonized national statistics. I think this is one of the lessons we need to learn from this crisis. That will help us all under any circumstances and also in improving resource management. Therefore, data on contagion, cures, deaths, admissions to ICUs, hospitalizations have been carried out in Spain on the basis of the information provided - I would also like to stress this - with the best of the will by the autonomous communities and on the basis of the international protocols of the World Health Organization. Ladies and gentlemen, the first centenary of the great pandemic of 1918, which caused more than 50 million deaths worldwide, has recently been completed, of which more than 250 000 occurred in a Spain with less than half of the population than today. That terrifying epidemic was improperly known as the Spanish flu. And it was improper because its origin was not in our country but it was called this because Spain was the first country to alert the pandemic, as many other nations avoided recognizing it by being immersed in World War I. The VOCID-19 pandemic is known to have started in the East, in a Chinese province, but its name does not include a passport or nationality, precisely to prevent the stigmatization of any country, of any society. It has been a pandemic - we already know its deadly journey - that started in Asia, that very soon it moved to our continent, to Europe, and already on our continent logically it struck successively all nations, with particular harshness to the countries that concentrate the largest traffic of travelers because they are international hubs, and it did so in its greatest urban concentrations: Italy, Spain, France, Great Britain. Subsequently, the epicentre has moved to America, North America and South America. As is known, the world's largest superpower has officially recorded more than 100,000 deaths per coronavirus so far; in New York alone the number of victims is higher than in our country. This pandemic has no passport - I have said it on many occasions, every time I have had occasion to rise to this rostrum - nor nationality, it is a world calamity. Italy is not guilty of being beaten by the virus, nor is Spain, France, Belgium, Germany or Switzerland. It is not the fault of Milan, Madrid, London or any other capital in the world. The enemy is the virus, ladies and gentlemen, and politics must serve to fight it together. This is an appeal that I have made on numerous occasions and, although I have even been able to cry out in the desert, I think it is one of the lessons that we also need to draw in relation to the health emergency and its management. The enemy, I insist, is the virus and politics must serve to fight it together. The virus cannot be the pretext to divide, to fight the adversary - we are seeing it in other countries; we are suffering it also in our own -, less even by using the victims as a bold weapon or by taking over a flag that is the flag of all and that flies in half a pole in the longest official mourning in the history of our democracy. Let's never forget it. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are carrying out a gradual, cautious, intelligent de-escalation of which we must be satisfied, as I said earlier. The tabs on the board were not easy to move - let us remember that we were the first country on the European continent to tackle this descalation - but we have all done reasonably well. The pandemic has not attacked the same everywhere, times have not run the same way in all territories - there are the figures, there are the data - both the state of alarm and the co-governance were necessary. While some islands were in phase 2, Madrid, for example, was still in phase 0 as a result of being the epicenter of the pandemic, and the dynamism of the emergency has marked our actions. If the situation was not the same, the answer could not logically be uniform. Addressing the needs of each autonomous community, while respecting the needs of the rest, has therefore only been possible with commitment, co-responsibility and coordination. This was not a community career, I have said it many times; the descalade was not a community career to see who came before. Every step forward was a victory for each and every one of the autonomous communities; every act of prudence, a guarantee for the entire living citizenship where it lived. I think that we had never before had the opportunity to check in such a certain way - I would like to stress it again - how we need each other and how we influence each other. We are many territories within one nation, we are interdependent; our era is the era of interdependence not only within our country but also with the rest of the world. We share responsibilities, we are therefore united, we and we; that union is really our identity, it is our strength. The freedom and power of each autonomous community have never been in danger - this too I would like to remind you - the only danger that we could not run in this descalation was not to guarantee something very precious to the whole citizenry, which is the common good referring to public health. This week, ladies and gentlemen, 70% of our territory is in phase 2 of the plan for the transition to this new normality, some places are already in phase 3, and we are therefore getting closer and closer to achieving this. That new day to day that awaits us, that prudent normality that will soon reach the entire Spanish territory, will be the result of the effort, patience and commitment of all. We have been cautious, we have progressed cautiously. The restrictions of movement, social, the progressive relaunch of our economy has always been modulated on the basis of the advice of the scientific committee, which advises us from the first moment, and on the basis of the state of health of each of the territories of our country. The state of alarm has gone from being restrictive to being more and more flexible. I said this from the beginning of the crisis: every time we advanced in the health emergency, logically the state of alarm was going to modulate. This flexibility responds to the containment of the health emergency, depends exclusively on it; if there were no containment of the virus, we could not inflate this relief to society as a whole in its vital as well as economic needs. The recovery of consumption in the provinces, for example, which were already in phase 1, has obviously been very significant. The fall in consumption was around 60% compared to the previous year, and in some provinces which have been in phase 1 these weeks, this fall has been reduced to half, to 30%. Also in this regard, this intelligent descalation has, in my opinion, earned the penalty. If we continue, therefore, walking in this direction with prudence, I insist, with commitment, the numbers of infected will become smaller, and they are already being, much smaller, and economic activity will resume and heal at a good pace. What do I mean? That I understand, logically, that the government understands the impatience of economic actors, but there is no choice between health and business; without public health, there is no business that lasts open to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore appear today, as is mandatory, as the President of Congress has pointed out, to request from the House the sixth extension of the state of alarm. It will be the last extension and will have very special characteristics as a result of the exchange and dialogue that I have had with the various parliamentary groups and, without a doubt, also with the autonomous governments. The state of alarm, as I just reviewed a moment ago, has been in these months the fundamental tool to stop the pandemic. The data, before and after the approval of the first state of alarm, are there; the number of contagions that we had before the state of alarm and those that we have today, are there, are known to all and, therefore, all I can do is congratulate that collaboration, cooperation and coordination that we have maintained between the Government of Spain and the Autonomous Communities. Today, we have zero dead, ladies and gentlemen, in our country as a result of the COVID. I believe that it is a success of all and all the parliamentary groups that have allowed us to extend this state of alarm for five times, and on this occasion on the sixth and last occasion, I would like to thank you wholeheartedly because you have also served that cause of defending public health and saving lives. [[Applauds]] In an unprecedented situation at the international level, or at least not known in the last hundred years, and without vaccines, without available remedies, governments around the world have been forced to resort to one of the oldest medical treatments, which is quarantine, confinement. We always said that the state of alarm was essential in the descalation, that is also the reason for the latter and definitive prolongation, which, if there is no retrogression, will reach until the moment when the vast majority of Spaniards will be near the new normality. The state of alarm has never, ladies and gentlemen - I have said this on many occasions every time I have had occasion to refer to this from this rostrum - been a whim of the Government, nor has it had any other purpose than to control the virus, defend public health and save lives. Certainly, in the parliamentary debate there is going to be a question about the use that the Government has made of the state of alarm, we know it; some will say it has served to have this supposed evil Government cut into freedoms and others will even say that to take away the autonomous power, but nothing further from reality, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to recall that virtually all the parliamentary forces saw the need to use the state of alarm on the first occasions I came to this rostrum to request the approval of the state of alarm and the extension of it, and it is a mystery, it is a mystery, that some parliamentary forces on the first occasions I came here said that it was necessary to approve the state of alarm and now simply say that it is not possible to continue to extend the state of alarm. Again, ladies and gentlemen, the state of alarm is a tool of our Constitution, used by many other countries at European level, even for a very long time than I am repeatedly asking before your ladies and gentlemen every fifteen days. It is Spanish society that puts special powers in the hands of the State to face exceptional situations and calamities such as that of the COVID-19. That has always been an instrument of the State, the state of alarm is an instrument of the State, not of the Government, and it has been the State, with all its strength, with all its institutions, that has fought against COVID-19, the central Government, the autonomous communities and local corporations, in addition to the provinces, each from their responsibility, in coordination. All freedoms, all of them, have persisted during the state of alarm. This House, with the obvious health restrictions, has exercised control every fifteen days. The media have played their part. No freedom has been limited, except for the freedom to contaminate. That is why mobility and social contact have been limited during these long weeks. Anyone who wishes to oppose the state of alarm will have to resort to any other pretext, but certainly not to the pretext or excuse of freedom. Freedom of thought, expression, association, democratic freedoms have been exercised without more limit than health guarantees. On these grounds, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that this latest extension of the state of alarm, which is to be extended to zero hours on 21 June, has the following characteristics. In the territories in Phases 1 and 2, the Ministry of Health will continue to take the measures envisaged within the framework of the state of alarm and the descalation plan following the already known co-governance process with the Autonomous Communities. In the territories that are located or move to phase 3 it will be the president or president of the autonomous community who, in his new status as competent authority delegated by that territory, will have the power to decide whether or not to maintain or modify and how the measures contained in the order of phase 3 published last Saturday. In addition, it will be the autonomous community that decides to overcome phase 3 and therefore move to the new normality, that is, the lifting of the state of alarm. In this sense, it is important to stress - this is what I would also like to underline to you, ladies and gentlemen - that the overcoming of phase 3 is an acknowledgement that the health crisis has ended in that territory and will therefore cease to be in an alarm state. Cooperation, co-governance, is one of the key elements in managing this crisis, unlike other previous crises, and enables us to establish a model of action for the future, which is another way of doing things together by necessity and by common interest. For this reason, in this last stage the competences of the autonomous communities in the progression of the measures of descalation will be much broader. I would like to recall once again that the autonomous communities at no time lost their skills, never lost them, and even at the hardest moments of the pandemic, with a much more restrictive state of alarm than we now have, the autonomous communities never lost their skills. Despite the unique command of the Ministries of the Interior, Health, Defence and Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, the management of all the competences recognized in the statutes of autonomy was always in the hands of the respective autonomous governments: health, education, dependence and justice, among others. Each autonomous community can carry out the actions in its field without state brake. Moreover, they had state support. A good example - I want to share it with your ladies and gentlemen - are some temporary hospitals that were installed and equipped with the initiative of certain autonomous communities and the support of the Armed Forces. How could they have taken such action if they had no competence? They had them, and they also had the support and resources of the Government of Spain, as is the case with the Armed Forces. As I have already told you, from stage 3 of the de-escalation they will have, in addition to the management capacity, the absolute decision-making capacity, with the only logical exception of the restrictions on freedom of movement, which is precisely what justifies the extension of the state of alarm, whose competence continues to maintain the health authority, in this case the Minister of Health, Mr Illa. As developments have evolved, we have moved from single command to co-governance and from co-governance to full governance by the autonomous communities in phase 3. This will culminate in the de-escalation with shared responsibility and the return to institutional normality. I hope, therefore, that all of you will have the support of this last and final extension of the state of alarm; a unique state of alarm, new and with only one function: to accompany the territories in this last stretch, in these last meters - the most desired, by the way, but not less risky than the previous ones - to accompany the territories in the face of this new normality. Therefore, I also announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that at the next Council of Ministers on Tuesday, 9 June, a real decree-law will be adopted for this new normality, which will compile all measures of prevention, containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis caused by the COVID-19, after the expiry of the state of alarm in successive territories and, definitively, from 21 June. These measures will be addressed at a forthcoming Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, of which the Government of Spain - in this case the Minister of Health - and the health councils of the various autonomous communities are part. It is, in short, a matter of uniting the health measures that we will have to continue to observe in a single rule until we have an effective vaccine or therapeutic treatment that will allow us to recover our previous habits with complete safety and thus avoid the risk of a resurgence of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that no one will be able to deny with a minimum of honesty the leadership role played also by our country within the framework of the European institutions, and it is good that this is so, because it is about defending the interests of our compatriots in an absolutely fundamental field such as the economic and social reconstruction of our country, of our continent. How we manage to channel and condition this European action will depend to a large extent on the speed and strength with which we will overcome the adversities created by COVID-19 on a global scale. The benefit will not be of one or the other, ladies and gentlemen, it will be of the whole society, without differences or nuances, in all the territories and in all the productive sectors. And since this is the common good, at least in this we should all strive to achieve an image of real unity that strengthens us in the face of negotiation with our European partners. Five are the milestones that mark the path that has been taken so far in Europe. The first is the flexibility of the public deficit criteria set out in the Stability and Growth Pact; an unprecedented agreement, apparently unthinkable until very recently, which well exemplifies the extent to which we must address this situation with criteria completely different from those of the previous crisis. Secondly, the European Central Bank's public debt-purchase programme, valued at EUR 750 billion; a public debt-purchase programme also unprecedented in recent years. Thirdly, this triple network of EUR 540 billion approved by the European Council on 23 April, in which I humbly believe that the Spanish Government has also played a leading, leading and leading role. Fourthly, the increase in the multiannual financial framework of the European Union to EUR 1.1 billion. Fifthly, the creation of a recovery fund for the European economy of EUR 750 billion, for which I think it is appropriate to make some clarifications to your honourable Members. As you know, the plan put forward by the European Commission for the establishment of this fund has been called the Next Generation EU. The fact that its processing and implementation will be linked to the multiannual financial framework means that we will indeed be setting the European Union's economic horizon for at least the next decade. It is not, therefore, a question of combating a timely emergency, but of addressing the moment we live in from truly transformative arguments. It seems to me that it is important to repeat this because this is the question: it is not just to get out of the crisis, to react to the crisis, but to get out with pillars and foundations completely different from those with which we enter. It is a question of responding, therefore, to the orderly nature of the pandemic with boldness, intelligence and a vision for the future, with a response based on two criteria: a sustainable response and an inclusive response. They also know that the final amount of the recovery fund proposal has been raised to a total of EUR 750 billion, of which EUR 500 billion - the proposal, I insist, of the European Commission - are transfers and EUR 250 billion are loans, amounts articulated around three fundamental pillars that I would like to detail to them, albeit very briefly. The first would cover around 80% of the total volume of the fund and consists of two instruments. The first is the acronym in English RRF, which we could translate as a sort of recovery and resilience service, with EUR 560 billion in budget, which accounts for 90% of the amount of this pillar. This is the instrument directly linked to the transformations that we must undertake to address this crisis. Its only conditionality - and I would like to stress it again: its only conditionality - is the development of national plans by the Member States based on the priorities identified in the framework of the European Semester, as well as ensuring that expenditure is consistent with those national climate and energy plans which the Government has recently approved and sent to Brussels. Secondly, a fund called REACT-EU, which is 10% of this pillar, budgeted at EUR 55 billion, similar to the cohesion funds, which will be distributed according to the impact of the crisis and whose mission will be to support workers, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, health systems, the digital transition and particularly affected sectors, such as tourism or culture. The first pillar will be complemented by smaller amounts to reinforce some things that are important to our country, or at least to this Government and most of its Member States, such as the Fair Transition Fund and also the Rural Development Fund to combat depopulation in our country. The second pillar relates to private investment and is being developed under a new solvency support instrument, which will serve as the basis for the distribution of the European Investment Bank. The InvestmentEU programme, which will be complemented by the EUR 15 billion strategic investment service, is also expected to be strengthened, with the potential to leverage nothing more and nothing less than EUR 150 billion. This pillar would strengthen key sectors for future health crises, such as pharmaceuticals, and recapitalisation of businesses in Member States that are experiencing budgetary difficulties and cannot do so with their national budgets. The third pillar is aimed at drawing lessons from the crisis. In its internal dimension it will involve the development of a new European health system - let us call it this - with EUR 9400 million, and this will mean allocating resources to prevent and prepare future health crises and improve health-related objectives in the long term. In its external dimension, it also includes the improvement of cooperation instruments, also in the area of neighbourhood as the instrument of international cooperation and humanitarian aid. Of course, in this crisis the European Union cannot forget that external dimension and solidarity with the countries that are currently going through this pandemic. I am thinking, logically, of Latin America and, potentially, of Africa. Apart from the three pillars, the European Commission proposes to strengthen other programmes of the multiannual financial framework with regard to the proposal which was on the table and which was rejected by all Member States last February, including, logically, the common agricultural policy which has proved to be an instrument not only efficient but also essential for such critical moments as those we have been through in recent weeks, fisheries policy, programmes linked to the common market, Erasmus+, Europe for Defence, Connecting Europe and Digital Europe, because, logically, the digital transition has proved to be a fundamental instrument for such critical situations. They are all issues of undoubted significance to our country and in whose negotiations we are actively participating. In short, ladies and gentlemen, according to the estimates transmitted today by the European Commission, Spain could benefit from some EUR 77 billion in direct transfers and some EUR 63 billion in credits. In other words, a total of EUR 140 billion from the Next Generation EU. A proposal which is certainly favourable to our interests is to be seen from where it is looked, both in terms of the amount and the conditions under which it is formulated. As for the most benefited sectors, the plan specifies tourism, with EUR 161 billion; trade, with EUR 115 billion - I am referring to the overall level of that EUR 750 billion -; renewable energy, with EUR 100 billion; digital business, with EUR 66 billion; energy and intensive industries, with EUR 88 billion; transport and automobile, with EUR 64 billion and construction, with EUR 54 billion; all of them undoubtedly with a huge specific weight in the business and economic fabric of our country. The current text, as you know, will be discussed at the European Council which we are going to hold on 19 June, and I believe that it will be resumed, presumably, for its final adoption together with the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 in an extraordinary monographic European Council - we hope that on this occasion it will be face-to-face - on the date of July still to be determined. If so, there would be room to prepare a transitional fund of almost EUR 12 billion and to prepare the first debt issue during the last quarter of the year. I believe that this is also very important, ladies and gentlemen, because, after all, when we are talking about pooling debt, what Europe is doing right now is pooling debt. It is doing so through the MEDE, it is doing so through the Unemployment Reinsurance Fund, and it is going to do so by the European Commission to articulate this recovery fund, without a doubt, historical and also, without a doubt, unprecedented and which is a turning point in the history of the European Union. Obviously, a long and arduous negotiation awaits us before reaching a definitive agreement. We all know the reticent position of a small number of countries, but we also need to remember that unanimity is needed in the European Council in order to be able to approve the multiannual financial framework and, logically, also the economic recovery fund proposed by the European Commission. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we have reached this crucial point in the negotiations from a position of advantage - and I would also like to acknowledge this - and with the majority of support for the agreement by most Member States, significantly from those countries which have not only suffered the most from the consequences of the pandemic, but also the most at risk of their economic viability, as a result of the bad or worse functioning of the single market and, logically, countries as important as France, Germany Italy and Spain, i.e. countries in population terms also very relevant to our common project. From the outset, ladies and gentlemen, we have maintained from the Government that, seventy-two years later, Europe needed a sort of Marshall Plan. It was not, of course, a question of comparing the circumstances at the time with those of the present, but only such an action can establish a relevant parallel to our needs right now by all European countries, by the gravity of the crisis we face, by the ambition and by the extent of the necessary measures to be taken, by the historical significance of the moment that has also touched us today as a country and as a common project. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference on which I would like to draw your attention; a significant difference. Then, when the Marshall Plan was launched, our country, like other dictatorships in southern Europe, was left out of that Marshall Plan by the Franco regime's rejection of reconciliation and democratic openness demanded by the international community, after the defeat of fascism had ended; an attitude that condemned the Spaniards to the lusts of deprivation, sacrifice and decades of backward industrial economic development. Today, it is Spain that is demanding on our continent the creation of a new Marshall Plan for the benefit of all the Member States of the Union, not with the resources of a friendly but distant power, but with our own strengths as a union of states that we are, the Union that we must be, the Union that can and should be in the coming times. It is a plan that will necessarily rest on the three vectors that you have heard me in some other appearances and that not only determine our present, but will determine the most immediate future. Firstly, the environmental transformation, with which this government is fully committed. Yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, we approved that circular economy strategy. Secondly, the digitisation of the economy, clearly one of the processes that has accelerated most as a result of the pandemic and the drive to telework, and finally, the creation of jobs, but quality employment, adapted to our productive structures and to those new productive structures to which it referred earlier. With that reference, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to reach our own reconstruction agreements, with those same principles and also with that same ambition. An unprecedented recovery and investment plan, to which we will henceforth devote all our efforts from the Government of Spain. That is the horizon that awaits us, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that it is a scenario of sufficient transcendence to make, once again, in this House a call - as the President of Congress has done on some other occasions - to defend the pettyness and irrelevance of small politics and to devote ourselves all together to a work that will require the best of our dispositions and the best of our capabilities as leaders and legitimate representatives of our country over the coming months. In 1948, the U.S. It saved a Europe devastated by World War II, and no one saved Spain, destroyed by civil strife. Today, in 2020, Europe, ladies and gentlemen, must save Europe, and Spain, within the framework of Europe, must save Spain. From the very beginning, our plan to combat the health, economic and social emergency has been based on four pillars from which we have been implementing all the measures: firstly - you know, we have repeated this in the successive debates we have had about the extension - to protect and guarantee the well-being of Spanish families and, in particular, of working families. Secondly, to ensure the necessary supply requested by the Autonomous Communities, especially health professionals managed by the Autonomous Communities, and the production of medicines and access to health materials. Thirdly, to protect employment in sectors suffering from falling demand as a result of confinement. And fourthly, to put all our efforts and all the necessary resources into supporting the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises in the productive sector of our country. On 17 March, four days after declaring the state of alarm and thus paralysing much of the economy in our country, I announced the mobilization of up to 200 billion euros, the largest social protection network that responded to the magnitude of the economic and social challenge we were facing and are facing. Ladies and gentlemen, the social security system has already recognised over 1,385,000 self-employed workers as being entitled to an extraordinary termination benefit. This represents 97% of the more than 1.42 million self-employed who have requested it, 97%. A total of 491,000 ICO line financing operations have been formalised for the State's coverage of the financing granted by financial institutions to businesses and self-employed persons, with an approved amount of €46.6 billion. I repeat: 491,000 operations, 46,600 million euros. And it is estimated that more than 3 million workers will benefit from unemployment protection measures due to suspensions, reductions in working hours for reasons of force majeure and also temporary employment regulations. More than 134 000 agricultural workers will benefit from a reduction of more than 19 % in their inactivity contribution when they have completed a maximum of 55 days in 2019. Some 2500 companies will benefit from the Government's system of extraordinary grants for performing arts and music as a result of the impact of the health crisis on the cultural sector. And more than 3550 independent bookstores will be able to benefit from the system of extra aid to the book sector. In addition, 127 entities benefit from grants granted by the Carlos III Institute of Health for COVID-19 research projects and programmes, amounting to more than EUR 22.4 million. In this case, I would like to congratulate the researchers, the scientists, for the contribution and the work they are doing to achieve a vaccine and a Spanish response to this crisis. And 1731 researchers will continue their work thanks to the extension of temporary contracts, financed by the State Research Agency and the Carlos III Institute of Health. For its part, more than 137,800 applications for mortgage-guarantee moratoriums and more than 229,300 applications for the suspension of credit agreements have been granted. This is a government, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, as most of our society knows, committed to gender equality and the fight against gender-based violence: almost 61,000 women benefit from urgent measures taken to protect and assist victims of gender-based violence, sexual exploitation, trafficking or sexual assault. I am sure that there are still many people who think that this is not enough, and it is not enough when everything is necessary to put the country back on its feet around that plan of reconstruction, of social and economic recovery, but we will continue to listen and do what is needed, when it is needed and where it is needed and without leaving anyone behind. Because we will continue to protect and drive the engine of our country to achieve two fundamental issues: first, certainty; second, security. No one's alone. We are, ladies and gentlemen, all united. Our country will be stronger the more security we transmit and, if it feels safe, society will resume its life more calmly, more calmly, which will lead to greater consumption and, therefore, a much safer economic recovery and less risk of relapse, which is ultimately the goal of the Government of Spain. It is true, as I said on some other occasion, that before this crisis there was a more exposed Spain, a Spain with scars opened since the last economic crisis, a Spain that felt abandoned in that last crisis because it did not receive benefit, attention, understanding... There is, therefore, a weak, vulnerable, limited Spain, and that Spain is the most urgent Spain; that of thousands of children at risk of poverty; that of men and women over forty years of age who have not yet found stable employment or who have suffered long-term unemployment since the last economic crisis; that of thousands of dependent people, our elderly, abandoned to their fate, without protection, and, above all, that of a generation of young people seeking hope in other countries when their waiting time has run out in our country, with the difference that there is no place to flee now. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many reasons, many, that lead us to act as we have acted and how we will continue to act, but the main one is that of social justice. It was essential for our country to approve a vital minimum income, as we did on Friday last week in an extraordinary Council of Ministers. I certainly believe that this is a historic, transcendental measure, at a key time in addition to our country; a measure that is part of the coalition government programme; a measure that restores dignity and decency to our country; a measure that creates new social rights and for which I believe we can all congratulate ourselves. And we must all congratulate ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, because the poverty rate in our country is the highest of all countries in our environment, doubling the average of the European Union, triple, for example, the poverty rate of countries such as Germany. In Spain alone, ladies and gentlemen, the percentage of households below 30% of average income is 7%, a situation that affects more than 2 million children who suffer from child poverty, that is, our children and our children, and that is ultimately the next generation of our country. I think we need to protect them, we need to help them move forward. Future generations must grow with dignity. Last Friday, as I said before, we approved in an extraordinary Council of Ministers the minimum living income, which will start to apply this same month of June and which will be able to protect nothing more and nothing less than four out of five people in a situation of severe poverty. This means around 850,000 households. The annual cost of this measure is EUR 3 billion, an amount that is going to directly reactivate our economy, to the extent that households receiving this vital minimum income logically are going to encourage a little more consumption of basic needs such as food or clothing; a consumption that will have an impact on local trade and, therefore, on the employment of small and medium-sized enterprises and also self-employed workers. They are public resources that, in short, fulfill different subjects, objectives or desires shared by the whole of Spanish society, not only that of social justice, without any doubt that of decency, but also that of resuscitating economic activity with public resources. For the first time in Spain, the objectives of reducing extreme poverty have been taken into account - and I also think it is important to underline this to your ladies and gentlemen - in the design of minimum living income. The amount of minimum income will depend on the number of members of each household, because what we want is to affect child poverty, and it will start this same month of June, as I said before. The minimum income will guarantee between EUR 5500 and EUR 12 000 per year per household. It must be understood that the benefit, logically, is not a fixed amount, because, I insist, it is very much aimed at combating child poverty and it is a complement until it reaches the appropriate minimum according to the income that each household has. This is, in my view, in the view of the Government, a fundamental, transcendental change. In addition to reducing poverty, we will logically boost social inclusion, as I said before, and we will also help the economy. This government - they have heard me say it many times, but also in the investiture speech - is a government with a priority commitment: to eradicate child poverty and to implement, therefore, the recommendations that systematically since 2014 the Council of Europe raises to Spain and, logically, the commitments that we have self-imposed as a government to meet the Sustainable Development Goals within the framework of the 2030 Agenda. They understand that the minimum living income is directly linked to child poverty. The crises lead to an increase in situations of exclusion and thus increase social inequality, as we have seen in recent years, and we cannot allow it, especially for our children. The data in Spain before the crisis of the health emergency already blushed us as public representatives and we cannot allow there to be either broken children or generations without future or families without hope. Our sons and daughters, born where they are born, live where they live, must have the same opportunities and rights without risk of exclusion. It is simply a matter of doing what is right. Since May 29, Spain has won in social justice, but above all, as I said before, in decency. It is not a question of a part of our country surviving. It is about Spain living with dignity. It's not charity, it's protection. It's not compassion, it's justice and it's decency. [[Applauds]] This measure represents, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental pillar for social reconstruction, without forgetting in parallel that necessary economic reconstruction in our country. We need to talk about growth; we need to talk not only about redistribution, but about growth and job creation, and from the government we are focusing on some strategic sectors. Firstly, I think it is clear that we need to talk about tourism. This sector of international prestige and great capacity to create employment has been particularly affected by COVID-19 and will undoubtedly continue to be supported by the Government of Spain. I would like to announce that we will shortly present a plan to relaunch tourism, based on economic and labour support measures complementary to those already approved and on the repositioning of Spain as a safe and sustainable destination. In this plan we will ensure that the recovery of the sector is in line with the principles of socio-economic sustainability, to which I referred earlier, and environmental sustainability, to which this government is fully committed, and that the sector continues to work on two key elements: tourism sector innovation and digitisation, which is also important in driving this sector forward. Secondly, another sector particularly affected by the pandemic is mobility and automotive. This sector, ladies and gentlemen, is strategic for our country. They've heard me say it some other time. Above all and above all, we manufacture and export a lot of cars, it accounts for 10% of our gross domestic product and employment in Spain and has significant drag effects on other sectors. To give an example, so that you can see what the real impact this so strategic automotive sector has on our country's economy: every euro invoiced by vehicle manufacturers amounts to 1.65 euros in the rest of the Spanish economy. The Government is working on a major plan to revive mobility and the automotive sector, in dialogue with the actors involved, with the main companies and with the main unions, which will include actions to support the car sector in the long term and also throughout the entire value chain, to enable a rapid recovery and to mitigate as far as possible the adverse effects of COVID-19 on its competitiveness - that is to say, the long term - while helping it to make the transition to vehicles that need to be cleaner and more sustainable more quickly. The plan will promote measures to support sustainable mobility - it is also important to incorporate it into this much broader and more transversal concept of sustainable mobility - with new forms of transport, such as bicycles, buses and electric vans. And finally, we will adopt - we will bring it soon - a law on sustainable mobility - let us hope that it will have the majority support of the House - which will create a regulatory framework for the manufacture and marketing of vehicles. Our central objective, ladies and gentlemen, is to do something that I said earlier as a response to the crisis on the part of Europe and that we also have to do in our country: to facilitate the transformation of our economy into a sustainable model, far more competitive than we have, which allows for the creation of quality jobs. This priority also implies changes in labour legislation and, logically, the Spanish Government has done so by promoting social dialogue from the outset. We have approved the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage in the framework of the social dialogue and have also approved the extension of ERTs in the framework of the social dialogue. The approach that the Spanish Government has taken in this framework of social dialogue is to create a new Workers' Statute for the 21st century, adapting the legislation of the ERTE - which is a new and innovative response that we have given to this crisis with regard to other crises - and having as a priority to propose a labor regulation in line with the ecological and digital transition and also with all aspects related to the health sector and scientific research. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, Spain must save Spain in the framework of a united and much stronger Europe. Consequently, my request from the Government is that we continue to work on a social and economic reconstruction plan that is in line with the reality of Spain, but with proposals, with debate and, if possible, with agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, let our differences serve to better elaborate our proposals, not to further distance us. Our country needs urgent solutions. Let us work urgently and responsibly and also with a huge dose of generosity towards our country, a country that suffers the effects of this pandemic. Let us work for the common good and forget the custom of chryspation. Let's work from the same flag. Therefore, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to speak for a moment of flags. We all know that the flag is the symbol of the nation. The flag is a rectangular fabric sewn with forty-seven million threads, one for each Spanish and Spanish. The flag is the flag of everyone and everyone. It represents our history, our languages, our discoveries, our literature, our landscape and our heritage. But it represents above all, ladies and gentlemen, our will to live together and to form a common country project. Therefore, no one is outside the flag and no one has the right to use the flag against another compatriot. In this House we have different models - even antagonistic ones - and many ways of conceiving our country and planning its future, but they are all Spain. This is something I would like to keep in the mind of each and every one of your lordships. We are here because we have been voted for by citizens; citizens, both citizens, who are part of our country and who have the same right to participate in the construction of their future. There are no good Spaniards and bad Spaniards. There are no good citizens and bad citizens. Let us not, therefore, use the flag as if it were a weapon or as if it were a dividing border. Let us not use the name of Spain in vain. Let us not use to divide any of the symbols that were created precisely to represent everything that unites us, which is much, much more than what separates us. [[Applauds]] We have an extraordinary - extraordinary - country, the best country in the world, which we must revitalize, strengthen, preserve and modernize. This House is the representation of the extraordinary diversity of our country. It is evidence that for this country to move forward it needs dialogue and understanding on the part of the majority. The virus did not ask about the ideology of the infected and the infected, ladies and gentlemen. The pandemic did not distinguish territories, social classes or ideologies. As you well know, virus is a term that comes from Latin and that originally means poison. We are seeing it in some places, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the United States, and we do not want to see it quail in Spain. Poison is hate. [[Applauds]] The poison of hate is the most harmful poison, because it corrodes societies and annihilates communities. Ladies and gentlemen, let us say no to the poison of hatred, not to physical violence, not verbal violence, not insult and not provocation. We don't want that for us or our children. Our parents didn't sacrifice themselves for this. The pandemic has exposed some mistakes in our system; let's solve them. Let us show citizens the usefulness of politics, the essential of public service; let us show that we serve more than just to fill headlines with chasms, provocation and insults. Our work is not easy, we can always do better, ladies and gentlemen. Well, let's do it better, it's time to definitely transform our country. Which country do we want to be, ladies and gentlemen? What country do the Spaniards want for themselves? I have repeated on many occasions that I have come all the way here to work for coexistence and to promote something I have previously pointed out, a sustainable and inclusive growth that has left no one behind, and these goals have become more inescapable with this health emergency. This government is fighting for what it has always wanted to fight for, we have come precisely for this. The country we want is the country we need, and it is the country we need to rebuild urgently. There are millions of people out there who expect agreement, who expect us to be really useful to them, who expect us to solve the serious problems that have accumulated due to this health crisis but that they were already suffering from years ago. The country we need is a sustainable country, it is a more egalitarian country, it is a country in coexistence, it is a country with social justice. The country we need is one that promotes the productivity of its companies with the most innovation, with more science, with more training, with more education, with more motivation, with more stability and quality in jobs; it is one that must restore the social rights that we have been dismantling over the last few decades, such as that of health, such as education, vocational training and dependence. The country we want is that of decent pensions, the country we want is the country of minimum living income. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the country we want and need is the country that is once again driving our economic growth, the digitisation of our economy, which has accelerated as a result of the emergence of this pandemic, the ecological transition. We talk about health emergency, but the real emergency we have ahead is the climate emergency, to which we have to respond. The country we need is real and effective equality between men and women, and I say it loud and clear: live on 8 March! [[Applauds]] The country we need, ladies and gentlemen, is that of dialogue, understanding and agreement between their different territories and their ways of conceiving and understanding our great country, and that country, ladies and gentlemen, we will only be able to build it together, together, not uniform, but together, not from the total agreement, to which we do not aspire because it is not possible - we would like, but it is not possible - but, at least, with a pact between different. That is why I would like to ask you now, before I finish, to show your disagreements with the Government, but to do so with parliamentary heights, without disqualifications, without insults, without presumptions of guilt, without gross accusations of bad faith and also unbelievably conspiracies, ladies and gentlemen. Let us all be constructive, let us demonstrate to the citizenry that they did the right thing when choosing us. I announce to you that I will not use my turn in reply to provocations, if any, that I will not emphasize our differences but our points of agreement, that I will not delegitimate my opponents, but that I will grant them the same respect as I ask for a legitimate government, as it is the government that runs Spain, because we need that, concordia, ladies and gentlemen, concordia in order to transform Spain definitively. Let us reorient our thinking and commitment towards a new political attitude. If anything remains after this health emergency, ladies and gentlemen, there remains that new way of doing politics, that of understanding. Let us never forget what we are: a democratic, free country that walks tirelessly towards a better future. Thank you. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common, and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, two years have passed since yesterday's motion of censure brought to the attention of the Government of Spain on behalf of all those who want to destroy it. In the end, he managed to build that Frankenstein alliance from which Rubalcaba alerted and for which he was terminated as secretary general of the PSOE his own comrades. We have nothing to negotiate with those who break the law and the Constitution, you said then, but now we know what your word is worth. I, on the other hand, value trust, credibility and coherence, and that is why today I want to defend the work of an entire person like Mariano Rajoy and an effective Government like that of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] In just over six years we managed to create three million jobs, raise the pensions that you left frozen, spend on health, education, dependency and salaries of civil servants, who left cut, regain our international prestige and bring to justice the secessionists in Catalonia. Already then we warned you that by leading an amalgam of radicals you could be invested, but you could not rule, and time has given us the reason. In two years he has not been able to pass any budgets; he has had to hold two general elections and has remained in power after he has merged EUR 20 billion into electoral decrees to go to the polls, and yet he owes the Presidency to the ultra-left, the independenceists and the Batasuns. [[Applauds]] You are the president with less electoral backing in our history, but we already know that your weakness is inversely proportional to the arrogance with which you give us - already more of a divan than of a seat - and to your word, because no one can believe you after saying that neither you nor 95% of the Spaniards could sleep at night if you had to rule with Podemos in coalition. As Lope wrote: 'there is no right lie that is not known.' In all this time it has made polarization and division its road map. It arrived with pockets full of political confrontation and ideological sectarianism, with suitcases loaded with social engineering, populism and agitprop. From the first day in power he designed an electoral campaign permanently based on Manichean discourse, in opposing the opposition and in the resurrection of atavistic antagonisms, fortunately overcome. He who distributes hemlock speaks today of poison, such as the pyromaniac who learns about fires. [[Applauds]] Prisoner of his support, he has turned every parliamentary vote, like today's, into a bazaar where the equality of the Spaniards competes at a price of balance. When it is only intended to resist at any price, it ends up paying the highest price so as to resist; as high as having to justify the condemnation of the EREs, the greatest case of corruption in history, and to keep as ministers three advisors of Chaves and Griñán, against their own stick of measuring in their motion of censorship; as much as to break the agreement of the Transition, even against the pacts of their party, for decades; as well as to place in almone the national unity with a table of self-determination with convicts for a blow to constitutional legality and misrepresent the institutions of the State for their own benefit, such as the CIS, public television or general advocacy; and to politicize the Attorney General's Office by imposing a politically reprobate for not denouncing a plot of police extortion; and to whitewash Maduro's dictatorship by receiving his vice-president, in clear violation of European resolutions and by lying at parliamentary headquarters to cover it, and to yield to the demands of the terrorists's favour and promiscences of the country. [[applause]] 'With Bildu we will not compromise. If you want, I'll say it five or twenty times. I'm offended by the question,' you said just a few months ago. He does not tire of lying or announcing the economic prosperity that outrages, putting our welfare state at risk again. Since you ruled, and before the arrival of COVID-19, 23% of business start-ups have collapsed; mortgages, 16%; foreign investment, 66%; the industrial sector, 20%; commercial, 32%; service, 18%. However, it has doubled the committed deficit; it has triggered debt up to EUR 67 billion; unemployment, 18% and youth unemployment, 27%, for a change. Mr Sánchez, you tried to sell yourself here as a white eye of political regeneration, but in less than two years it is already a lame duck with the worst management balance of our democracy, even before the black swan of the coronavirus appears. [[Applauds]] It has succeeded in being the example of the world's greatest failure to fight the pandemic, with the worst figures of deaths per inhabitant, which still refuses to clarify, after having had the sole health command for three months. How is it possible that, according to the public institute Charles III, there are 43 000 victims or, according to the funeral homes, 44 000, and you only recognise 28 000? You, who called your opponents indecent, seem decent to hide the dead to hide their incompetence? Even The New York Times said on Saturday that I hadn't seen such a thing all over the world. Yesterday we discovered the umpteenth proof of his massive deception. Ms. Montero acknowledged in a video that on March 8 there was already a serious risk of contagion and that, at the time, other countries were already taking super drastic measures She protected herself by not giving her hand, but tens of thousands of women did not have that information, even though 'they were going to live on it'. [[ccccccccc]] What a ghastly premonition Mrs. Calvo's! [[Applauds]] But I'm sure you'll be happy to come to court to bring what you know, because this government is super transparent. Until then, we demand that you comply with the law and make public the names of the supposed experts who decide on our freedoms, and the minutes of the meetings where they hid these alarms, putting their political agenda before public health. While I was asking him about the coronavirus here in February, his spokesman was textually saying: 'In Spain there is no risk of becoming infected and the social anxiety that is being generated is out of reason'. Three hundred thousand contagions aren't reasonable? And just ten days ago he said, about the masks, they couldn't recommend what they couldn't apply. That is, they did not force them to use them because they could not guarantee their supply, even if that put thousands of lives at risk and caused fifty thousand contagions of health care workers, the highest figure in the world. And to this is added the dubious planning of confinement and descalation, without massive testing, buying false evidence, lying to OECD and CNN about fake reports from Oxford and Hopkins. Everyone's shut up like the vervain wizard who's seen all the tricks. Mr. Sanchez, we don't come out any louder. As much as I advertise that I pay at the taxpayer's expense, a lie repeated a thousand times doesn't turn out to be true. The Spaniards owe nothing to this government, nor have they been able to save lives, nor have they protected the economy and well-being, and have left millions behind. His image in this crisis will be associated with the defective masks, false tests, the emergencies of all Spain collapsed, the overflowing morgues and the queues of hunger. You, who boast of a social shield, look to see if in another country in our environment thousands of families affected by the crisis come to parishes and NGOs, by the way, to whom they have also cut their contribution. We will not go out stronger with a hundred thousand broken companies, a million unemployed, another million self-employed without activity and almost four million workers in ERTE, of which one million have been without paying the benefit since March. Read my lips, Mr Sánchez: there is no future without a job. We must recover the labour market without radical mantras that destroy our productive fabric. And this is not achieved by negotiating with the Batasuns the repeal of the labor reform, which created three million jobs in the last socialist recession; nor by announcing a fiscal policy that would be a scarecrow for international investment; nor by threatening with authoritarian nationalizations that fail, such as the Santana de Linares, also of the Socialist Party. It does not intend to sell the minimum income as if it were the philosophical stone, but as the last resort to which to go. I am glad that you discover eight years later the emergency aid such as the Plan Preparation - which you rejected - that we launched in the face of the massive unemployment that you left us, and that you also recognize the good functioning of the minimum vital income of the autonomous communities for twenty years. That is why we ask that it be all of them, not just the nationalists who vote for their programmes, who manage these aids. [[Applauds]] But the important thing is that the unemployed can find a job as soon as possible and young people can have an autonomous future to fulfill their dreams without relying on State aid. To this end, we have been offering an alternative economic activation plan for three months, which they have not even been worthy to value. Meanwhile, its attacks on the electro-intensive industry are paid by the workers of Alcoa, Lugo and its sectarian demonization of the engine are paid by the twenty-five thousand jobs associated with the Nissan of Barcelona. Can you tell us why four months ago you promised in Davos that you wouldn't close? So much summit with Torra and not a minute to talk about industry? Your bandits with tourism have assaulted 13% of the national wealth, which you say has little value, a whole boast of estultice. And its abandonment to the countryside threatens the CAP's forecasts, does not sell to our farmers, farmers and fishermen for the next seven years in exchange for a bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Mr Sánchez, you came to power with a motion of censure to the Government and now you intend to make a motion of censure to the State, all of which is a matter of alarm, which today you intend to extend for the sixth time until the ninety days of constitutional exceptionality, even after acknowledging that there is a plan B to maintain the health command and the limitation of mobility. What a piece of paper he did here the other day by reading the report he received from the same State Attorney who then denounced his pressures! Of the whole European Union, only Spain remains outside the ordinary legislation that called for the Council and Commission report, which you signed two months ago. His strategy against institutional controls and balances makes his Government the least democratic of our democracy. [[Applauds]] During those three months he has crossed too many red lines. You are willing not to leave the State to remain in power for one more day, starting with the infamous pacts that disguises the management of the pandemic as with this extension, because after being very dignified saying that you would only speak of the state of alarm, you have been taken away from the repeal of the labor reform, the self-determination table and the breakdown of equality in the management of social aid. Dignity to remove and put. It is a sinister paradox that it says that it negotiates the implementation of the Constitution with a prisoner who is in prison for attacking it and that it says that it deals to save lives with those who justify eight hundred murders to innocent people. 'You will do things that will freeze my blood,' warned the mother of the socialist councilman Pagazaurtundúa. In addition to this, they have forced security forces and bodies to pursue criticism on social networks and have threatened critical media interviews with the Government in public. They have modified the CNI to include their partners, after having changed the director without notifying the opposition leader for the first time in forty years. They have organized casceroladas against the head of state, accused the opposition of beating and threatened politicians to crush them. Parliament has been closed, 4000 initiatives on coronavirus remain unanswered and the transparency portal is closed. They have attacked the Central Electoral Board and the judges, forcing the General Council of the Judiciary to demand respect for their independence. They have abused opaque recruitment, arbitrary subsidies, the fingering of thirty other senior positions for their mastodontic government, and have forced an IBEX company, participated by the state, to place two of their godparents and one freed from Podemos. Where's your repulse at the revolving doors? They have renewed for the first time without consensus the National Commission on Markets and Competition, putting one of their advisers as president and placing another of Esquerra and Podemos as they did in the Nuclear Security Council. They have also unleashed a witch hunt in the Civil Guard, adding to the body in its greatest crisis since the scandal of also socialist Luis Roldán. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, can you explain to us why you purged an undefeated colonel for refusing to commit an illegality by leaking a report investigating the possible criminal responsibility of your Government on 8 March? Do you know that this can be a crime of inducing the disclosure of secrets, of obstruction of justice and of prevarication? What are you hiding to keep your Interior Minister as if he were your Fouché after you lied in Moncloa, in Congress and in the Senate? 'Neither this minister, nor anyone from the ministry, nor anyone from the Directorate General of the Civil Guard - nobody - has asked Mr Pérez de los Cobos for the report nor for access to the contents of this report,' he said there, Mr Marlaska. By the way, what a mania they have to talk about in third person this government so much about people! Mr. President of the Government, you have violated article 117 of the Constitution which enshrines the division of powers and article 550 of the General Law on the Judiciary, which obliges the Judicial Police to act under the direction of the courts without following the orders of their organic superiors, as well as article 34 of the Law on State Security Forces and Bodies, which provides that officials of the Judicial Police units may not be removed from the investigation until it is completed if it is not by decision of the judge. You are responsible for these purges and, if you had the slightest respect for the rule of law, you should restore the colonel to his duties and cease those who executed an order that you certainly knew. [[Applauds]] This is linked to the cessation of Colonel Sánchez Corbí and the resignation of the DAO, number three of the Civil Guard, to the orders of General Santiago to control the networks and to the cessation of the police officer for asking them to buy masks. There's no pay hike that will cover this dishonor. This is already the case Sánchez, as was the case with Delcy Rodríguez or the commissions for sanitary material. You protect Grande-Marlaska, Ábalos and Illa because they serve as human shields, until you send them to an embassy or to TV, like Huertas and Montón. [[Applauds]] Remember Shakespeare: 'With the bait of a lie, you catch a real tent.' And you'll end up fishing. I have already warned you that as soon as we get out of the state of alarm and reach what you call dystopic language and cursi the new normality, we will request a parliamentary commission of inquiry to clarify the responsibilities of the Government in its disastrous management of the pandemic. And I remind you that you won't be able to lie there without legal consequences. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. 'It was said that I was going to sell my soul to be president of the government and I was going to accept the blackmail of Churches, charging me with the independence of judges and prosecutors, and that I was going to make governability rest in the independence forces. [[...]] I could have been president of the government at a price I didn't want, nor do I think the Spaniards deserved.' That is what you said, Mr Sánchez, but you have done just the opposite, as always. What we don't deserve from the Spaniards is that a president who lies to us without stopping, without blushing. It is necessary to recognize his ability to do so to so many people at the same time; I confess, to us too. We supported him in the adoption of the state of alarm and voted in favour of three extensions and in another we abstained, knowing that this allowed him to approve it. We never ask him for anything in return or negotiate any counterpart. We did it because those days, with almost a thousand dead, justified an exceptional temporary measure. However, in that second vote we were surprised by a wave of insults from your bench when we were supporting you and the attacks on our autonomous presidents, as well as the attempt to hold us accountable for the cuts you made ten years ago in health. We also realized in the Parliamentary Reconstruction Commission - which I proposed to you - that I had no intention of agreeing anything. While in France he put in front of a Nobel Prize and in Italy they put a prestigious economist, here they put a lawyer of the Colombian guerrillas. If he didn't like our candidate - with two ministries and four undersecretaries behind his back - he could have looked for someone with the profile of the governor of the Banco de España or the president of Inditex, for example. We still look forward to your response on our extended hand to a Cajal State Pact for the health, investigation and care of the elderly. But you, Mr Sánchez, are still the one who is not, that of the Peugeot who said that nothing could be agreed with the PP, that of the primary ones that claimed the Tinell pact and the cordon sanitaire that two weeks ago tried to revalidate in Barcelona. In these two years, the jacket has been changed and sunglasses have been put on a jet, but it cannot hide who it is: the most radical president in the history of Spain. That's why I used to go to Moncloa to talk about pacts, but then they got up from the subcommissions. For this reason, he pressured us on his two investitures, but when he saw the danger of his ordeal, he hugged his natural partner, who was coming with Évole, the prodigal son who claimed Zapatero. We were only interested as an alibi, so that their unrecognizable pacts could be noticed less, so that their patriotic voters, the victims of terrorism or those affected by separatist supremacyism, and, above all, so that in Europe they would not ask much about their shaky government and programme. And as soon as we have denounced the trap, you have broken the deck as an excuse to polarize electorally, to socialize, to reopen historical scars and exacerbate political frenzy. Mr Sánchez, do not ask for more loyalty than the one you are willing to give and do not demand more unity than the one you get from the cage of crickets in which the Council of Ministers has turned. You know what Gracián wrote about the penance of liars...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u7	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u8	I'm done, Madam President. You know what Gracián wrote about the penance of liars, who, as nothing believes, then no one believes them. In just a few months he has managed to squander our trust, but be careful because he has also lost that of most Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, this cannot be made up of you: tens of thousands of Spaniards killed by sectarianism and the criminal negligence of this government and millions of Spaniards ruined by sectarianism and an undercover state of emergency. You have come here to boast that Spain has led to the strictest confinement, that is, with the greatest restriction of freedoms and with the suspension of fundamental rights; the greatest confinement in the Western world and, at the same time, to the head in the number of deaths per inhabitant. And everything for what? Both because you hid information. And he has dared to come to this rostrum to shout, "Long live on March 8th!", which in this context is as much as shouting, "Long live the disease and live the death!" Where is the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen? Why does the Constitutional Court not resolve in time the unconstitutionality appeals that we Members of this House legitimately raise against the state of alarm? [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: What a barbarity!]] Because today we are going to vote on the sixth and final extension - if we believe in the Government - of this hidden state of emergency and the Constitutional Court has not yet ruled. He's not here, though he's expected. It is true that we may be somewhat inauspicious and should not expect anything from a Constitutional Court that you have all appointed, those who have approved this covert state of emergency and those who have not appealed against it. We do not know where the Constitutional Court is, but we do know where your Government, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, is: once again agreeing with all the enemies of Spain, again agreeing with all those enemies of Spain who are not in the Council of Ministers, by the way: with ETA, with the Basque Nationalist Party and with the Republican Left of Catalonia, with all those who have only cared about and will care about Spain and who have taken advantage of this epidemic for all its purposes of destruction and division of Spain. And you come here to reproach us for using the flag of Spain. I think it would be enough for him to demand that his investiture accomplices not burn her down and not toss her out of the official buildings. [[Applauds]] And, by the way, to encourage their hosts and militants to also set it up at the Socialist Party rallies. And let the Lords of Podemos also do so, as in France, where we see all the political parties using their national teaching without any kind of problem and without each other saying that they use it or that they take it away. Because here the only thing that gets snatched is what you've thrown on the ground. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, in this context, the Spaniards have seen their health and life in the hands of a negligent government and their freedom and economy in the hands of a sectarian, extremist and war-civilist government. That is why today I want to address all the Spaniards in a solemn way to ask them not to fall into their war-civilist provocations, Mr. Iglesias - listen to us from where you hear us - so that they choose the path of national harmony - the real one, not the one set up, Mr. Sánchez - so that they continue to exercise their rights with cyvismism, Mr. Iglesias, not like you, who jumped the confinement to go to the Councils of Ministers, and to protect themselves from the hatred promoted by the Government of Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Iglesias. [[rumors]] Because this Government has called for hatred, violence, slavery, the elimination of political opponents from this rostrum, and has done so only to protect itself from its criminal responsibilities, those of a president who, with his negligence and concealment, has caused the death of thousands of Spaniards, and those of a vice president who has left the elderly dead in the residences without having the assistance of the State they deserved and the company of their relatives at the last moments of their lives. [[Applauds]] You have come up to this rostrum, Mr Sánchez, you have come here once again to say in a very calm and pompous way that the enemy is the virus, you have come to say that we avoid chrispation. He literally said, "No to insult, no to verbal violence." Okay. Immundicia, parasites, implicit appeal to the crimes of the Popular Front to say that the deputies of VOX will disappear from this House, accusations of coup, accusations of claiming the insubordination of the security forces and the Armed Forces, that is, insults, insults, lies and lies, in the style, by the way, of the Bolivarian dictatorships, where any exercise of opposition is described as coupismo. You demonise VOX while glorifying terrorism, Mr. Vice President, that of the perceptive terrorist band ETA, and you agree with your heirs, and also that of FRAP. By the way, Mr Iglesias, you are doing this with the help of El País, which this Sunday was dedicated to the laundering of FRAP crimes and, with that justification, to the laundering of the crimes of all the ultra-left and separatist terrorist gangs in Spain during the last decades in a very clear justification of terrorism. [[Applauds]] It is curious, Mr Iglesias - listen to me from where you hear me - that the PRISA Group, whose president, Mr Monzón, is at the same time president of Openbank, a subsidiary of Banco Santander. I say it because you come here disguised as undressed, but you always end up in the hands of the powerful. [[Applauds]] Mr. Churches, you have called the whole world terrorist, Juan Roig - terrorist, according to you -, Rodrigo Rato - terrorist, according to you -, Felipe González - terrorist, according to you -, Amancio Ortega - terrorist, according to you -. Everyone has been called terrorists by the Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, and then Mr Pablo Iglesias comes here to tear his clothes because a Member of this House reminds him of his father's terrorist past, and Mrs Batet protects him by deleting the reference in the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] What no one will be able to eliminate from the Journal of Sessions is the literal tweet of Mr.Paul Iglesias about his father, because I am going to take advantage of this intervention to read it, because we are sick of lies and their hypocrisy. Paul Iglesias, August 2, 2013 - how far I should see the vice-presidency -, two points: 'I leave you a song that my father sang to me frapero de pique. Kisses and piolets.' How loving you are, Mr. Churches. By the way, the song was about the FRAP and about the slaughter of his majesty the king. That said, how loving you are, Mr. Churches. You, and only you, Mr. Churches, accused your father of being part of a murderous and terrorist organization. And I don't know if your father was a terrorist or a franchise officer -- or it was both things, as some say -- I don't know if your grandfather was a war criminal or a franchise officer -- or it was both things, as some say -- but I don't care. What we do not accept is that he comes here to be the victim, when it was he who accused his father of terrorism, so what the vice president has to do is to apologize to his father - as he calls him - and, by the way, to the students, whom he perhaps wanted to impress, because we have a vice president who is a small fanfare. [[Applauds]] War-civilism, the provocations to which you refer and which you are perpetrating in this House, the accusations of coup against the opposition, Mr. Iglesias, are only to divert attention from your criminal responsibilities. The other day he said something very serious about VOX in a Commission. I believe that Mr Iglesias wants a civil war, but I am not going to say that he does not dare, because I believe that, in his vanity and fanaticism, he is able to provoke any drama in Spain, and we are not going to fall into his provocations. But they are equal to the smokescreens and fireworks that you make, because you will not be able to circumvent the action of justice so easily, even if you use all the mechanisms at your disposal to subject the institutions of the State to Mr Marlaska - whose resignation I will not ask, because we ask for the action of the whole government - Mrs Delgado and the communication satellites paid for by bankers. [[Rumors]] All of you will have to answer, ladies and gentlemen, for hiding information from the Spaniards: Live on 8 March!, live the disease and live the death. [[Applauds]] All of you will have to answer for ceasing a colonel who did not want to commit crimes of revealing secrets, obstructing justice or prevarication. And all of you will have to answer for illegally suspending the rights of the Spaniards. And also for the trip and Mrs. Delcy Rodriguez's suitcases. Let Mr. Ábalos know that we have not forgotten and that he has not been as well served by the coronavirus as he suspected. And don't hesitate, there won't then be enough censors, those you call verifiers, with enough capacity to silence all your misdeeds. As much as you harass the opposition from the Bolivarian-style government, as much as you promote civil war and make provocations to then accuse others, you will have to be held accountable sooner or later before the courts and the Spanish. And neither will you be able to conceal for a long time the actual number of deaths that has caused your criminal and totally opaque management. 27,000 remain committed to that, when even the National Funeral Service Association, which must know more about this than you, has already said that it is 44,000. Nor will they be able to conceal for any longer that this hidden state of emergency sought only its own protection as a government to govern arbitrarily, from this government which has been subversive to the rule of law, the rule of law and the division of powers. And to protect his friends also by taking advantage of the epidemic. Because, again, we've seen the appointments in Enagas. The Socialist Party, when people do not charge the ERTE, shows us that the concern it has is to name Mr Montilla, Mr Pepe Blanco, that we do not know what they know about the gas, and We can tell Mr Cristóbal Gallego, that all we know is that he was against the gas, all with important salaries in Enagas, while the Spaniards are having a bad time, and honouring the rotating doors they denounced. You're real jets, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Salaries and revolving doors, while with your sectarian policy and your obsessions you are carrying the employment and the future of thousands of Spaniards. They have loaded Navantia, with their obsessions they have loaded the Nissan, they are on their way to load Alcoa, they have loaded much of the agriculture and the tourism and the commerce and the hospitality. Meanwhile, they have not paid the salaries to the Spaniards, as we had asked them, they have not paid the ERTE of a million of our compatriots, and, yes, they have agreed the labor legislation of the Spaniards with ETA, which is the organization that murdered hundreds of Spanish workers. And now we get a minimum income that's going to end up being, Mr. Sanchez, the rationing chart of that nightmare that didn't allow you to sleep. [[Applauds]] The minimum income, ladies and gentlemen, is the symptom of a government's inability to create wealth. And in this case I think it is worse, minimum income is a symptom of the capacity and willingness of this Government to create poverty and dependent people. The Spaniards have dignity, they don't want their alms, they want to work, they want to prosper, they don't want their minimum income. A temporary and exceptional minimum income is not only good, but it is necessary to support a person or family in difficulty. But a permanent and universal minimum income, as you have said, is nothing more than a wish for poverty and a promise of ruin. [[Applauds]] I hope that you will not end up boasting, as the Minister of Labour did, about the number of Spaniards who end up taking up their minimum income, because it will only be the exact measure of their irresponsibility and the exact measure of everything you have destroyed during these months. And they have also generated and are going to generate a brutal effect called. We are already seeing the Magrebian websites, with people who intervene with perplexity before the manna who seems to fall from heaven for the help you are willing to give and for the requirements you are going to put. Yes, you deny it with your head, but here is the State Official Gazette where it says that it would take at least a year in Spain to get the minimum income - this is already questionable when there are Spaniards who do not arrive at the end of the month, who are passing it fatal, who have contributed for a long time - and say that it will not be necessary to meet this requirement for people who are victims of human trafficking with a previous report issued by the public services. People who are in public services, who are sensitive to the people who suffer, are going to understand perfectly that all the people who come in pateras are victims of the mafia and human traffickers - we are facing the new slavery of the twenty-first century - and therefore we will see how hundreds and thousands of people begin to arrive in our country to collect that minimum income and to further hinder the outflow of our economy. You're completely irresponsible. Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, you are a catastrophe for life, for freedom, for the prosperity of the Spaniards. But the Spaniards have lost their fear, and we have seen it. Despite your pressures, despite your threats, there have been massive caceroladas in all the neighborhoods of Spain, which you have wanted to caricaturize. There has been a caravan for freedom in all cities - which partly changed the President's speech an hour later - with thousands of Spaniards on board their vehicles, respecting all health security measures, behaving civically, respecting the State Security Forces and Corpses and without a single incident. And the few incidents that occurred during those days were those that provoked the thugs that you sent to the neighborhoods, the totalitarian antifas friends of Mr. Iglesias and the minas of all of you, who came to harass and attack the good people who manifested themselves in their neighborhoods. And I love to see how you put your hands to your head: you needed to hear all this in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] In spite of this, you will not be able to curtail the freedom of the Spaniards - I conclude, Madam President - even if the Government behaves like a mafia, blackmailing the opposition with the elderly in the residences and with the victims of the ERTE as hostages, demanding that we approve their state of alarm in the infinite extensions and even their budgets, pursuing freedom on social networks, investigating and harassing the promoters of demonstrations and of caceroladas, illegally penalizing the Spaniards - and we will see how many of the fines they have finally paid - by illegally ceasing civilian guards of honour for refusing to commit crimes, concealing health information from the Spaniards, distorting the number of dead before their management and now buying hundreds of thousands of votes with a minimum income that is only a condemnation for us to resign before their Bolivarian Government. [[Applauds]] You're not a government, you're just the branch of billionaire progress and communist drug addicts. But there is hope, because in spite of all this there is alternative, and it is we, who are not afraid of them. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u11	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u12	President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult not to lose calm after hearing Mr Abascal. I wanted my first words to be of thanks to those who have been on the front line all this time, in the midst of an unprecedented pandemic, and also to apologize for the embarrassing spectacle that has been lived in this House during this time and that we have seen again today. This removes citizens from politics and undermines confidence in institutions. The truth is that we have not lived up to his example, and we had a chance to get off our boats of ideological comfort and get on the same boat and we have missed it. Martin Luther King said that we may all have arrived in different boats, but now we are all on the same boat, and it makes sense to remember that today that in the United States you live what you are living. That is not a race struggle, it is a struggle of all, of decent people against racism. I wish Luther King's words had inspired the conduct of the majority of members of this Congress. The truth is that, unlike the European countries, here we have had a right-wing opposition that has crossed all the red lines and, in the middle of the wave, when we were trying to get to port, they were organizing a sort of mutiny to replace the coalition government with a government of technocrats. And everyone knows what were the last technocrats to turn away an elected government from the polls. In fact, for the first time since the 1930s there have been appeals to the Civil Guard, the Army and the king to take control. This is nothing more than the expression of their powerlessness, as it was in the 1930s, when they were also afraid of all the advances in rights that occurred, such as women's right to vote, freedom of thought, unionization, etc. An expression of that impotence is that of these phrases that I will read to you: Today more than ever it is time to remind the Army that the nation is not the same as the state and that they swore the first and not the second. The Army must break in pursuant to Article 8. Do you know whose this is? It's not Gil-Robles in the middle of the 1936 sabre noise. This is now, in the midst of the pandemic, a Member of this House and a Member of the European Parliament, who, by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, has already been condemned for calling the father of Pablo Iglesias a terrorist. We to that generation, the generation that brought democracy to us have much admiration and respect; to the parents, like that of Paul Churches or mine, who were arrested for distributing pamphlets, for going to demonstrations and risked their tranquility, their well-being, their freedom and even some of them their life precisely to bring democracy to us. That is why, Mr. Married, I wanted to ask you a request and ask you a question. The request is to dissociate yourself from your spokesperson. That Franco, Hitler or Mussolini would call any democratic opponent a terrorist I think is within the logic of a dictatorship, but that you do it seems very serious to me, and I think that in the reply you would have a good chance to do it. And let me also ask you a question. You didn't say long ago that Mr. Suárez was your reference. He did not speak of Aznar or Rajoy, as today, but of Mr Suárez. Do you think Mr. Suarez would have uttered those insults or allowed them to do so? Do you not believe that Mr Suárez would have supported this government, he who even agreed with the Communist Party? I think so, I would have tied my shoulder. But it gives me the impression - and I regret it - that, if you have not changed your principles, you have changed your references: from Suárez to Abascal or, even, to Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, which is more or less the same. You, Mr Abascal, can accuse us of everything, and today you have done it again, of pacting with terrorists and even being terrorists, of pacting with independenceists, of being independenceists, but that is nothing more than the reflection of your impotence. And with this they are breaking with precisely the heirs of the Transition, with their heirs of the Transition, who did not vote in favour of the Constitution, but were up to it. That's why I wanted to thank whoever's been in this pandemic. Thanks to More Country, to Republican Left, to PNV, to Bildu, also to Citizens, who have given a lesson to the other right. I would particularly like to welcome the agreement with Esquerra, because decentralization is not a whim of some, it is a guarantee to get better out of this crisis. However, Mr President, I think we need to go further in decentralization, I think it must also reach the municipalities, the municipalities, which are the administration closest to the citizens. They ask us what we are asking for in the European Union: a transfer fund, the management of its resources, the suspension of the Stability Pact. In this crisis, the mayors have worked discreetly, without the scarecrows of others, but have been very efficient. The most obvious proof is the support they have in the surveys. Barcelona City Council is the most valued administration. I also believe that we will have to look after groups such as immigrants and also, of course, the Nissan workers, to whom we send our solidarity. Can you imagine how different your situation would be if we had already repealed the labour reform of the PP? Nissan's workers, like so many others, are essential, they are our sovereignty. On the state of alarm, I would like to inform you that our group is going to vote in favour of its extension. Because do you imagine what would have happened without a state of alarm? If with him Mrs Ayuso has been able to organize the closure of the hospital of Ifema as she has done or we have seen the concentrations without social distance in the neighborhood of Salamanca, can you imagine with the virus circulating freely? Now we know that it was false what Ortega Smith told us that the Spanish antibodies could with the virus or what Bolsonaro told us, the same thing, because they were able to dive in sewers and nothing happened to them. And we have already seen that his policy of cross-arms - both Trump's, Bolsonaro's, and Johnson's, with their extravagant theories - has brought their countries to the stage of contagion. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, with flags the virus is not defeated, no matter how big they are, it is defeated by paying attention to the experts. It is no coincidence that it was Ayuso who believed that the low roofs of the hospitals were determinant or that he had his director of Public Health resign, or that Trump thought that with bleach he would be saved and that he wanted Fernando Simon to resign from the White House or that Bolsonaro had the minister of health resigned. Recognize it, you have a problem with science and with experts. That's why when they get to the government they make cuts in science and research, almost 30% with Rajoy. If it were you, you would have stopped Fernando Simon by now. Thomas Elliot said that human beings can't stand reality too much. But there are those who carry the worst that there is too much uncertainty around them. They are the ones who then resort to scapegoats and scapegoats. It's nothing new, it's been through history. In the Middle Ages we saw it with the black plague: the guilt, of the Jews; in the flu of 1918, of the Spaniards, and now, as Mr.Abascal and Mr.Ortega Smith tell us, of the damn Chinese, who have made a weapon against the West; the communists, they tell us; and the feminists too. Today we have heard that feminism on March 8 is disease, it is death. Actually, I was thinking about Camus when you said that. Centuries pass and human stupidity persists. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, in March you criticized this government for parapetting in science - you remember, don't you? - and Mrs Ayuso for listening more to experts than to entrepreneurs. He said: Many people also die in traffic accidents and not for that reason cars are banned. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember what happened in the Italian province of Bergamo? There was a real massacre after listening only to entrepreneurs and not closing the factories. A falling economy always rises, but the lives that are lost never recover. Therefore, in the face of the radical right's suicidal policies, contempt for objectivity or rights, never as now has knowledge and science been more liberating. Thanks to it today we know that if we had followed its path, in Spain the infection would have reached more than 30 million citizens, with about 300 000 dead. This is what has been prevented in the state of alarm. In my last speech in this Congress I explained that there were two attitudes to the pandemic: the decency of the majority of citizens and indecency. Today I believe that in this phase of descalation there has been a'split water' that updates the two Spains of Machado: on the one hand impotence and on the other hand hope. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, their disqualifications, their calls to the Army and the Civil Guard are not only a reaction to the fear of losing their privileges or the impotence for what is going on, the historical deployment of the social shield. It's worse than that, you don't just have no alternative to the state of alarm, it's that you have no alternative for Spain. Rafael Chirbes said, speaking of impotence, that men sin by impotence, they believe that they can achieve by force what they are not able to achieve with tenderness and intelligence. That's what happens to you. The more the strength of that powerlessness dominates them, the more hatred they harbor. That's why they make scarecrows, interrupt the speakers, shout with anger and leave the Committees angry. It is the pride of those who cannot build, which is to destroy. And that's why you were talking about the freedom caravan. We've seen what that caravan you mentioned before, the hate caravan, where in the name of freedom, journalists were attacked. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, freedom is not freedom to insult trade unionists in Malaga or the LGBTI community in Barcelona or to beat up a neighbor in Granada for having a Republican flag on his balcony. Freedom is not to celebrate the Euro Cup, as Mr Espinosa de los Monteros said, in the midst of collective mourning, with almost 30 000 people dead and at risk of contagion to others. Freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is incompatible with having in one hand the pot and in the other the flag with a Franco-Egala. [[Applauds]] Freedom is incompatible with the fear that you want to inoculate people to make them individualistic, conservative and suspicious. Freedom does not give it its bubbles or selfishness or impotence, freedom gives it truth, hope and rights; the rights that won that generation from the father of Paul Churches, yes, but also those that we are winning now with the minimum vital income, that you said it was a ration book, again taboo; stupidity insists. That minimum living income will make nearly one million households freer. Rights such as those granted by ERTE and prohibitions of dismissals and evictions approved despite their vote against. Because our duty, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely to give citizens rights, that is what makes it possible to remove their fear, the fear of being without income, without work, without home, without future. Ladies and gentlemen, being free is that no one has to ask permission from you or from any young man in order to survive. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, your history in this pandemic is the history of your powerlessness, the powerlessness of knowing that you will not be able to win either in the polls or in this Parliament, which is why you applaud with your ears the offensive of your judicial arm. Like in their day they called the 'tamayazo', today they try to overthrow the government by resorting again to the sewers. That is precisely why I want to end with a message of hope through Hannah Arendt's voice. I want to send that message to all the people who are listening to us, who are seeing us. Despite the saucepans, despite the insults and fake news, of the IBEX 35 and the horsemen of the Apocalypse, despite the noise of the crowns and cloacas, we will not take a step back, and we demonstrated it by approving last Friday the minimum vital income and that today the majority that we forged two years ago is reasserted. That's why it makes sense to remember Arendt. Arendt said that the future is, by definition, an ocean of insecurity, and hope, the promise, served to imagine in that uncertainty islands of security. It is important, when it comes to founding a promise, to know the winds that lead to the shipwreck to avoid it. For today - and I finish, ladies and gentlemen - in the face of the cuts and privatizations of the past, which have brought us here, our commitment, our promise is to lift up those islands of security so that, unlike 2008, they are a beacon of hope in the midst of the mist and allow no one to sink into resignation and abandonment and everyone can remain afloat. That's our commitment, that's our promise. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Abascal always leaves when I start talking, but I'll answer him. First, you've called the minimum living income alms. I understand that the 82 000 euros that the People's Party paid him for a chiringuite called the Fondation Mecenazgo and Patrimonio Social was... a culture of effort, right? Live on March 8th! [[Rumors]] Live on the 8th of March and live the feminist struggle, which not a million of some May, the day of pride facha, are going to kill her. Live on March 8th! [[Applauds]] As we put ourselves here for the umpteenth time, life passes, and right now there are hundreds of Nissan workers fighting for their jobs in Catalonia. There are 24 000 direct and indirect jobs at stake and 170 million euros in aid lost in the last ten years. They will allow me to send from here all the strength and solidarity possible, to demand solutions for them and to show the box of resistance that runs through the network to be able to help them. Future for Nissan now. [[It shows a photocopy in which you can read: 'Union, strength, solidarity. Nissan resistance box. Collaborate.']] I begin with two obviouss, two statements of principles which, unfortunately, should be remembered from time to time. The first: Republican Left won the general election twice; twice. Republican Left is the main Catalan group in this House; that's what there is. And Esquerra Republicana has thirteen deputies, magnificent and magnificent deputies and deputies, and Esquerra Republicana will use them; Esquerra Republicana will use them despite who weighs it. By Esquerra Republicana speaks and decides Esquerra Republicana, from Brussels to Martorelles, passing through Congress and the Parliament of Catalonia. We are no one's servants, no one's; our only master is the working people of Catalonia, and this one only serves the facts, not the magic. If the politician is dedicated to interpreting reality, it's good that he lives in reality, and that's what we do; the trickery for the witches, we do politics. And the second obvious: Republican Left put its parliamentary and negotiating force at the service of democracy and people in the investiture of a year ago. Result: dialogue and negotiation table, the famous sit and talk. And Republican Esquerra has now and for eighty-one days, eight weeks and six extensions of the state of alarm its parliamentary and negotiating force at the service of democracy and people. The result is demilitarisation, decentralization, a moratorium on the payment of housing, a reduction in VAT on social and health goods and today - today - in exchange for our abstention, firstly, territorialised management of European reconstruction funds, EUR 140 billion in total, and only EUR 77 000 in direct transfers for those who know the territory better: for the autonomous administrations. If you don't think much of this, you can go to the queue of a food bank in Madrid, Zaragoza or Barcelona. Second: aid to remove from the double hole in which were the first and most confined workers of Catalonia: those of the Conca d'Odena. Anyone who doesn't think much of this is going to go there and tell him. Third: the commitment to create a new legal framework for management in the face of future outbreaks; in short, do not repeat, if possible, the abuses and restrictions and the re-centralisation of the current Organic Act of the state of alarm of 1981, as well as the Public Health Act. We've had enough of saying there was an alternative; we're going to prove it and we've agreed to it. [[Rumors]] Every time the government has wanted to do politics and not mathematics, Republican Left has been. Every time the government has wanted not only to protect people from a virus, but to protect people from the poverty, misery and precariousness that will come, Republican Esquerra has been. And if he has never been - and has not been twice -, you know why, simply because Republican Left is not a member of the government, he is not a member of the PSOE, he is not a member of the United Nations We can; he is a member of dialogue, politics and people, and when they are not at the center of decision-making, Republican Left is not, and these extensions have found that. By the way, some compare what we do, our pacts, the policy we do ultimately, with the Covenant of the Majestic of Convergence and Jordi Pujol of the last forty years. Well, I don't know that Jordi Pujol was an independentist; we did. I don't know that Jordi Pujol is on the left; we are. And to me I do not know that we have invested José María Aznar; Convergence yes. There is a time between our goals and reality, and we want to lead and manage it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we have come out of all this with more doubt than certainty. The main one, knowing what they want, knowing what they want to be. Everyone knows what they want and what they want to be Republican Left. The question is what they want and what they want to be the lords of the PSOE, the lords of the United We can; in short, the government, because if they choose ten right-wing deputies who are opposed to dialogue, and of the right, they are and will be one thing, and if they choose thirteen of republicanism, of Catalan independence from the left, willing to dialogue, they are and will be something else; everything can't be, tell me who you deal with and I will tell you what pacts. It is true, it is true, that the survival of the dialogue and negotiation table goes through the survival of the Republican Left as an indispensable actor in governance; outside the Republican Left of the equation, outside the dialogue table. But don't be mistaken, don't be mistaken, who believes that the table goes from 'indepes' to Catalans and that if it doesn't go well, he is wrong; at that table not only is the role of Republican Left on the political agenda being played. The difference between that table surviving or dying is the difference between having a time of construction or a time of destruction. At that table we are not playing the role of the Republican Left, I repeat, at that table we are playing to encourage or stifle a hatred that comes one day and lives for generations. We play to win those who chop pots or fill pots. We play that there are more manifestations of high-end cars and low consciousness or people clapping in front of the outpatient clinics. In short, we play democracy. And whoever doesn't understand this, doesn't understand anything at all, or at least go out on the street and see the international Cayetana, in Mercedes, asking for freedom. [[Rumors]] Twenty-four hours ago - and I say this with great regret - an interview at the SER with the Minister of Consumer Affairs, Mr Garzón. Question: Is the Covenants with Citizens Good News? Answer: Yes, absolutely; it is good news that you can reach agreements with Citizens; I would open up to agree some budgets with them to undertake the necessary reforms. What reforms? What reforms, ladies and gentlemen? What reforms, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations can we do? The one-time contract? The elimination of autonomous competences? Decorating police abuse? Rent tickets? Vue commissions of inquiry? Open bars and close clinics, as they did with Ayuso in Madrid? To suppress aid against macho violence, as they have done with VOX in Andalusia? Is that what you're gonna deal with Citizens? Are those the necessary reforms? Does it bother you? I understand that as you look at your cell phones, in your consciousness you know that it does, that it bothers you enormously. And they're worth it? Is it worth it? I'd say no. Do you know I'd be saying Citizens now if I were an American party? That neither the police, nor the police, nor George Floyd, America! That's what Citizens would be saying and they know it better than I do. If they do not help us with this, if they do not help us to remove the PSOE from the right, if they do not help us to remove the PSOE from Citizens, if they now shut up, as they have done so many other times, the consequences we will all pay. How long do you think the minimum living income with Citizens in the equation will last? How much? How long do you think the ban on cutting off light or water to those who can't afford it with Citizens in the equation will last? How long do you think the repeal of labour reform will last? How much? Ladies and gentlemen, neither Citizens is the German CDU nor Mrs. Arrimadas is Merkel. It tastes bad to me; Citizens are VOX in phase 1 and Mrs. Arrimadas is Rosa Díez in phase 2. It hurts us; it hurts us to see them shut up. As we warned them so many other times in the face of the declared judicial war against anyone who threatens the status quo of who, and the example is Pérez de los Cobos, what happens is that while they were going against five children of Altsasu or nine Catalan Democrats nothing happened. Gentlemen of Citizens, it's been 48 hours saying we're very nervous about the deal. We're very quiet, actually. Those who should be very nervous are you, because those who have to explain how it goes to swear and perjure fifteen days ago that they had loaded the negotiating table and that they had loaded the Republican Left with the political agenda, both Catalan and Spanish, are you. And those who today are signing an agreement in which the table survives and Republican Left is indispensable are you. It's you who have to explain yourself, not us. We're very quiet. Those who will have to explain to the vampires of the flag, to those who show their national symbols as if they were heads cut off from a contrary tribe are you, not us. I'm done. The right, all right - no matter what right - are like a landlord, like the worst landlord in the world. They think the countries are theirs and when they don't rule or live who they don't like, they try to kick him out. This is what's happening now. It's up to us, on the left, it's up to the coup rhetoric on the right to be more than rhetorical. Look, 30 years ago Jesus Gil insulted and fixed Spain from a Jacuzzi, and it was funny. We didn't take it very seriously. Now they do it here, according to who does it here, from the rostrum, and what used to be a bar truck now is a slogan that is voted on. What José Luis Balbín explained to us earlier today, Fran Rivera explains to us. It's not casual, and that's what we're up against. Those who believe that right-wing disloyalty will be persecuted in history books are wrong; here it only matters who wins and in a world where truth matters less and less. And in this world, with the lie, they win. Only a fascist looks bad and feels threatened by antifascism. Only a fascist, between the truth and the lie, knowingly chooses the lie. I ask you a question, and I'm done, Madam President. You have the government, but do you have the power? Do you have the power? I don't think so, and I think what this pandemic has shown is that everything goes through consensual sovereignty and anti-fascist alliance. The lefts don't have the virus vaccine, but we do have the fascism vaccine. Think about it. I wish the left would take their dreams as seriously as the right their privileges. There is no better antifascism than that done in the BOE. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u15	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u16	Two preliminaries, ladies and gentlemen. The first is to accompany in the feeling his lordship Don Joan Capdevila, of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, for the loss of his father last Sunday and, of course, also to all families who have lost loved ones because of the pandemic. And a few words also in relation to another loss, that of another life, that of George Floyd, but also that of trust and rejection of the injustice that has been installed in the system. As there are those who feel involved in the causes in a way that is directly proportional to the distance from conflicts, today I bring to light this episode, which has generated a massive outrage and a first-rate international reaction against racism and police abuse, to remind Montesquieu, when he claimed that injustice done to one is a threat to all. Mr Sánchez, I told you in the previous sitting, fifteen days ago, that this looks like the Plenum of the marmot. Today we are again here to vote for the sixth extension of the state of alarm and it comforts us to think, as you said, that it will be the last. Although it should be noted that neither a pandemic nor such a prolonged state of alarm has made it possible to modernise the House or update the telematic participation of Members, not even in the Commission, as the Catalonian Parliament is doing, for example. This is still a Parliament of the nineteenth century in terms of mentality and not of the twenty-first century, which would correspond to technological advances. But we must have political will, of course. Otherwise, little news. As you have hardly changed anything, I have been tempted to return to my first speech. They have not accepted our proposals to adopt a more effective state of alarm model and we will have to say no again. We stay in the offer of points that you already know well. It's you who's moved and go if it's moved! To get away with it, with one hand it has agreed that the autonomous communities manage phase 3 of the decontainment and with the other it has agreed that all measures will be identical for the whole of Spain. The concept of autonomy, now degraded not to co-governance, but to delegated competent authority. We are not going to give him our abstention in exchange for giving us back the powers or, rather, in exchange for the promise to give back the powers. At the very least, and because we are polite, we may thank him for giving us back what should never have been taken away, but we will not give him the alibi after he has perpetrated a crushing overthrow of Catalonia's self-government. For the third time you agree with Citizens and this alliance is no longer an accident or a coincidence. It's the new normal. And it is not a tactic, it is a strategy and a warning for navigators who resist accepting the shipwreck of plural Spain and the progressive government. This new extension of the state of alarm also prolongs our state of disappointment, that of amazement is already permanent. His Government's spokesman hastened yesterday to explain that the pacts with one are compatible with the pacts with another. The question may not be whether they are compatible, but rather whether they are coherent, whether they are logical, whether they are loyal and equal if they are decent in political terms, whether the so-called variable geometry, which has had episodes of vodka, with deceptions to its partners, may in the end be a regrettable geometry. And the final double mortal leap, his agreement with Citizens states that the measures that regulate the extension will be identical for all of Spain in the final straight of the confinement. It seems, therefore, that this so-called scholarly virus, so diligent, has ignored what he had learned in geography and again fails to understand territories and not to distinguish between the health situation of each autonomy. Nothing new under the sun of the PSOE, the same coffee for everyone forever. Legal reforms have also been promised to establish an alternative state of alarm mechanism that would allow protection against possible resurgences. We'll see if, literally, the cure will be worse than the disease. We have put on the table concrete measures, five very clear points, but they prefer other agreements that are more abstract, more contradictory and, precisely, more comfortable for you. His propaganda claims without blush that from this virus we will come out stronger, but in reality as we will come out it is more deceptive of its management. They like to say that Spain is a social, democratic and legal state; by law, with reprisals and political prisoners and exiles, we know no. Since last week, the request of Amnesty International has already been added to that of the World Organization against Torture. Democratic, when polls are chased, voters are beaten and parliaments are threatened, impossible. And social is going to be that neither when in the face of a crisis of this magnitude is citizens left unprotected. I'm done, Madam President. We should learn, seeing his talent, that the only option is to have a state of our own, and that is why it is necessary for the independence forces to go together, even if we can disagree, even if sometimes there are things that can disturb us, such as Mr Rufián's speech today, which seems unnecessary, offensive to me and which looks more to the past than to the present, when where we should look at the future. But we have to be aware that we cannot dispense with anyone, that we are all necessary and stop attacking ourselves in order, in any case, to point out to those who do not want and prevent using all their tricks that we can survive as a nation. That is what it is about, to survive in order to live in fullness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin my speech here today by recalling George Floyd, murdered by the American police and by racism. It's terrible that in some media outlet they keep saying, dead under a cop's knee. Murdered by the American police and by racism. And also a reminder to all those who are going out on the street in the United States. But that is a reminder: when someone sows equality, they gather a community; when someone sows inequality, they sow racism and they sow hatred, what they gather is anger. I say this especially to those who declare themselves without any modest admirers of Trump and who want that model to break the coexistence in my country. And the Spanish Government would ask for some official demonstration in this regard beyond our words, some official demonstration that showed concern for the violation of human rights in the United States is not going to be that we think that human rights also depend on which country they happen in. Today we are discussing the last extension of the state of alarm and I am not going to discover the Mediterranean if I say that each plenary session we have been discussing in a worse environment, each extension we have discussed in a worse environment. We begin here by talking all over the world about great declarations, historic declarations, Moncloa pacts, Marshall Plan, and each plenary session becomes more breathable. We were the first to call for the cessation of all non-essential services, we were the first to call for a hard confinement, and we have been consistent, in the midst of noise and in the midst of bandages, in support of containment measures and measures of descalation, and we will continue. And I say it loud and clear: I did not like the government to forget too many times that it is a minority government and bring things already cooked and not negotiate them. But our vote on this issue has never depended on negotiations, because basically - and this is what I think we should understand - it is not a vote that has to do with an approval of the Government, but it is a vote that has to do with a thank you for the responsibility and work of the Spanish people. What I'm going to say now is anti-climate. I'm sure I'm better at talking in the media than I am at getting in the car too, and we're competing to see who's making the historical quote as far back as possible and as grandiose as possible. Look, every plenary that comes here we talk more about ourselves and less about the problems of the Spanish people as a whole, about citizenship, so I do not want to talk now about what the government does or what the opposition does, but about what the Spanish people have done, and thank you. I want to remember, first of all, the dead, and I send a huge hug to all your family and friends. Secondly, I would like to thank those who suffered from the COVID, who have overcome it and now face the challenge of recovering completely; the neighbours and the neighbours who have woven solidarity networks where the institutions were not arriving; the families, many of them'monomarental', with young children who have endured the confinement in an exemplary way, despite not being able to go out to play or run; the girls who endure without being able to go out to the street; all the families who have thrown the pandemic on their shoulders and have carried out their home and their work and kept our country afloat; the elderly who live alone and those who the virus has locked them even more in their homes; those who have endured the confinement with problems of mental health and anguish; those who have endured the confinement with economic problems and their work and who have kept our country afloat; those who have had to go out every day without knowing whether they could contaginate the next workers to the calming world; the workers who have spent hours of their homes, their homes, their homes, their homes, their homes, their homes, their homes, their homes, their homes. We have recorded - and I do not understand why it has not been possible to vote or understand the government's refusal to discuss it - a state tribute to the essential workers. Essential workers have been disappearing more and more from the speech in the Congress of Deputies, and yet it has been the ones who have put the body, always, at all times. They need a state tribute, to thank them for everything they have done, to thank them for putting the body on and to promise them that we will not applaud them next time as heroes, but that we will protect them so that they do their work in decent conditions, without precariousness, without cuts and without privatization of public services. I'm going to do a reflection. This is the last extension and then there will surely be a situation not of state of alarm, but of social alarm, which is becoming more and more visible. We have spent much more time talking about ourselves, whether Fulanito said or whether Menganito answered him, than about the people who juggle because they do not yet get the help of the ERTE, of the families who have been in debt for these months and do not know how they will go forward or of the problem of the Nissan, which is not only a problem of solidarity, but a problem of a State that long ago renounced its industrial policy; it was handed over to the market, which means that it does not have industrial policy. I've heard the Minister of Industry say that the best alternative is private. It's an ideological statement, but what if he doesn't come? I ask, why are we a country that accepts that the debt of the banks be nationalized without any problem, that the debt of the motorways be nationalized without any problem, but does not accept that the State can intervene to rescue the knowledge, the jobs and the wealth of the whole of our country in the plant of the Free Zone of Barcelona, converting the automotive industry into a sense of ecological sustainability, in an electric sense, in a sense of protection for the new sectors that are going to generate more wealth? Or is it the law of the funnel: nationalization of the losses, but when you win, the losses are only for the others? If we can intervene by rescuing the losses of the powerful, I say that we can intervene by rescuing our country's employment and industrial knowledge. I'm done, Madam President. I know it's hard to say, but the problem is not the hatred of those above, the problem is the fear of those below. The hatred of those above will continue, but also will continue, forgive me the frivolity, until the terraces open. You recruit the thirds of Flanders, you open the terraces and it turns out that the company ended up freeing Spain; you gave yourself time, let's say. The problem is the fear of those below, and for the fear of those below, thanks to those who have put the body, serenity in front of the screams, loyalty with partners of investiture and strength to bring democracy, the ecological transition and social justice to its ultimate consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u19	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I also have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, the other day he said he didn't understand the no of Compromise; I explain it to him. The Valencians face reconstruction, this reconstruction, with 50% less resources than the autonomous average; 1000 euros less than a cantabre, for example, or 2000 euros less than a Basque or a navarro. We are more vulnerable because, moreover, we are poorer, and we spend almost the entire budget on essential services and payment of debt interest, and we have a small 3% to be able to devote it to economic impulse, housing or R & D+i. In addition, we dedicate a quarter of the budget, EUR 25 out of every 100, to paying a debt of 48 billion that we have not generated, rather than devoting it to necessary services. We are in June, two years ago from the motion of censure that we applaud. We have resources until August 31st to pay for our health care. From September the Valencian health personnel will charge with a loan that we will have to make. And our health is not paid only in good words. Mr. Sánchez, we were like this on June 1, 2018 when we evicted the PP. We are doing this today, two years later, and when we ask your Government for resources to deal with reconstruction, on equal terms, to avoid a multi-speed exit from the crisis, it is always: no, it does not touch, it does not entangle, it does not seek problems. Our last proposal is very, very, very reasonable. We will receive EUR 140 000 from the European Union Recovery Fund. We ask them to allocate only 1.6 per cent, i.e. 23 billion, to a levelling fund for the five most underfunded autonomous communities: Andalusia, the Valencian Community, Murcia, Galicia and Castile-La Mancha. To put us in the Spanish average, not for indispensible expenses. For reconstruction, for coping with the crisis, for helping people, businesses, for our public health. It would be fair in a progressive Government to help those who have less, those who are worse, the most vulnerable. But your answer is no, not always. They agree with everyone and agree on everything; they agree that the minimum income is managed only by the Basque Country and Navarre, and not by the autonomous communities that want to manage it. But with us they do not agree that or anything, and that we are partners of government, and that which we have always voted for him yes, and that we have offered alternatives; and that we defend, here, what the PSOE defends, and We can, there; but, here, inexorably, we always remain alone. Finally, for those who have the temptation, the first one who voted with VOX and the PP was the PSOE, to prevent the Commission from investigating the corruptions of the Emeritus King; and not once, many. And others have also voted with VOX to overthrow the compromise proposals. So whoever is free from sin throws the first stone. Finally, we vote not because they force us, because they listen and agree with all but the Valencians, because they have in their hand to do distributive justice, to co-ordinate and help the five most vulnerable autonomous communities, which represent 19 million people, 40% of the Spanish population, and do not want to. Mr Sánchez, for me, for Compromises, today would be easy to hide in a abstention; the difficult thing is to make this vote, but I couldn't keep my face up if I broke my commitment to the Valencians if I didn't claim something that I think is fair. I hope to have the opportunity to truly negotiate, and I reiterate to you that the door of Commitment will always, always, always be open.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u21	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Finally, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, fifteen days ago the BNG raised the need to allow interprovincial mobility within an autonomous community, provided that the provinces were in the same phase. We were told that it was not possible, choosing to maintain, against all logic, centralized control and that politically perverse relationship of 'Madrid and his provinces'. The problem is that, in the face of this lock that prevents Galicians and Galicians from moving around our territory, we are seeing that people, who cannot do so, do so in the face of the inaction of those who assumed and have the responsibility to control mobility. These days mayors are denouncing with concern the growing and massive presence of foreign people in the villages of the entire Galician coast, who arrive without any restrictions and who represent a significant risk of rebounds for the Galician population, because they mostly come from communities that are still in phase 1, such as Madrid. It is outrageous that Galicians and Galicians cannot visit their relatives if they are in another province, even when that only represents crossing a bridge, as is certainly the case in the Eurocities of the Mino or the Dry Ray to access common services on the other side, and yet irregular mobility is allowed when it can represent a major health risk. Why do they not exercise their responsibilities and competences in this? In its day it is evident that for political and economic reasons, because the sanitary systems were indisputable, they did not want to close Madrid and thus caused the centrifugation of the contagion, its arrival and expansion in Galicia. Aren't you going to control now that this can't happen again? Clearly in this process, undoubtedly complex and difficult, the Spanish Government did not treat our country well and not only in aspects such as those mentioned above. Galicia was suffering from an important and visible industrial crisis that was not properly addressed, especially in the electro-intensive industry. A few days ago we learned of Alcoa San Cibrao's decision to close the aluminium plant and leave eight hundred workers on the street, which will affect the economy of the entire region of A Mariña in a vital way. [[Mr. Rego Candamil shows two photographs]] Despite the gravity of this situation, inexplicably, the Government has not yet moved. The health emergency and the state of alarm cannot be a pretext to neglect Galicia's interests, and you have the springs to do so, from dealings with the company to nationalization, if necessary. You did here before a loa to your flag; mine is another, that of my country, white and blue, for many and many also red, tricolor and republican. The flag that symbolizes the rights of Galicia as a nation and the social rights of the popular classes, the one that the Alcoa workers raise to defend their future because, you see, these are not the rich of Núñez de Balboa defending their privileges, they are the workers of my country fighting for their rights. I hope you keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, President. Today we have been in the state of alarm for almost three months, and we come here to the sixth extension of it. The INE has just said that we are in the 43 000 dead and we have had 300,000 infected. Many broken families, many people who have died alone in hospitals, a lot of suffering, a lot of pain, which today, however, seems not to be in the heads of many when they go up to the rostrum. That is why from my party - and in my own name too - I want to express my condolences and support for these people, who are still infected, who are struggling for their lives in hospitals. Sanitary workers, farmers, transporters, responsors have been up to it, they have given us hope. However, when you sit here you wonder whether many of those who speak here are up to it or not, because they don't talk about the state of alarm, they don't talk about a tremendous epidemic with terrible effects, they don't talk about the other side of the scale, the state of alarm as a legal tool to use the confinement to save the Spanish population. They don't talk about it. With the descalade we're winning the fight against the virus. Soon, I hope, hospitals will be less important, and the economy will be more important, but the fear of people who are unemployed and are in poverty will also be more important. And for that you have to be up to it and you have to avoid going up here to make the opposite joke, to say: what harm do you do, for you have done it worse. How many dead people need more to get us all together? What else has to happen in Spain for us to abandon these speeches? I came to politics to build, I came to politics to help, to serve, to protect the Spaniards and my country. I came here to do what I always did as a lawyer, which is to solve problems, and not create them. I've come to work, I've come to work, I've come to provide solutions. I didn't come here to make speeches, I didn't come here for a job either. I don't like the old politics I've seen here, so easy, so comfortable, the reds and the fairs. How easy that policy is! No, I came here to make politics difficult, to make new politics. That is why I am happy in this party, in Citizens, which is a courageous party, which makes difficult decisions, but always thinking about the well-being of the Spaniards, and not about their political revenue. Many have been the mistakes of this Government, and we have made them all the time. And the first - now current - is indeed why it was late, why no measures were taken to avoid the mass demonstrations in early March, and that Mrs Irene Montero acknowledges that she was actually aware of that risk. The Government was therefore totally negligent about this, the main measure, the first to be adopted to fight the pandemic. I say to the People's Party: we govern for 20 million Spaniards and we do well, we have successful formulas. Everyone realizes we're doing good. But look, Mr Casado, if you had been the President of the Government today you would have asked for the sixth extension of the state of alarm. [[Mr. White Casado makes negative gestures]] What difference would it make? The street would have burned it on the left, probably, everyone would have gone out to the street to call us all fairies, and I assure you that Citizens would be supporting you in that extension of the state of alarm, just thinking of the Spaniards. As we do today with Mr Sánchez, despite how difficult he puts it to us, with decrees laws that we do not like, reaching out to him and demanding responsibility, and he with his tricks, his prepotence, negotiating beneath other different things, etc. You put it on us, really, really hard. You, Mr. Iglesias, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, Mrs. Montero, but let's swallow our pride because we have to think with our heads, because we are the party of reason. I told you 15 days ago: you're not the important one here. The Spanish are important. It's very difficult, it's an almost biblical effort to keep patience with you in government, but we keep it. We keep it because we keep thinking with our heads, because we have made our decisions coherently. We have voted the same six times in the state of alarm. Because we have behaved cautiously, because we think that the state of alarm is necessary to win this last straight, to win the last battle, and because we have behaved with responsibility and sense of state, despite not liking his Frankenstein government at all. We do not like your Government at all, we are here to talk about the extension of the state of alarm. It is not a motion of censure, it is not a question of trust, it is not the vote on a budget, and yes, the President of the Government makes it very difficult for us, because he uses blackmail, because we have to force the consensus, which he does not want, and he accepts with disdain, because he has that horrible Government for Spain that wants to completely repeal the labour reform at this time, when the Economic Vice-President herself says that it is counterproductive and ineffective. Because he has a government partner who agrees to bring ETA prisoners closer to the Basque Country. Let us make this clear, that it calls for the freedom of the Jordi to consider them political prisoners, that it is going to set in motion the table of shame within the investment agreements. It is very difficult for us to do so and I say it clearly, Mr President, as I say to any of my adversaries. Don't forget this word: adversary. I'm telling you with respect. We don't like you at all, nothing! We don't like their coalition partners, we don't like their partners who support the government, we don't like them, but we are the moderate center, we have to support them by making these decisions for the good of the Spaniards. Just thinking about the good of the Spaniards, without getting political results, without putting on the table political conditions as Mr Rufián does, putting on the table the table, which seems to be going to save many lives and will save many jobs. Look, you're left at the stake in every vote, you're voted on one thing, you're voted on the other. They vote without responsibility. His friends say you have to cough the military, they say they don't want military hospitals that save lives in Catalonia because they're dressed in uniform. They promote motions against the head of state in the middle of an epidemic, they aim - in short - to assert territorial privileges themselves, because they get nervous with one word: equality. That is the word that Citizens have demanded of the Government. That word. That word is what Mr. Rufián says that does not make you nervous; I would really recommend that you see his intervention in the video. You're not that uneasy, you're angry. He said I do not know if fifty times the word Citizens, has become very angry; Mrs Borràs in another tone too, Mr Baldoví. I suppose Mr. Esteban will. [[Mr. Steban bravo makes affirmative gestures]] Something we are doing well in Citizens when you get so nervous and get so angry with the agreements we have reached with the government of the nation. Do you really think I'm going to do the same thing as you? I mean, that I'm going to get into an ideological trench, I'm going to ask for things that don't help save lives and jobs. Do you think I'm going to get angry, that I'm going to give myself a little rabies, that I'm going to change my sense of vote because Mr. Sánchez gives me more or less, because he deals with me, with you or with the other? Do you think I'm gonna look at that? No, I'm just going to look at the Spaniards. Because I don't get nervous about the word equality, like you, like you, who only want territorial privileges. And you ask me to explain the position of my party on the table of shame, of a party that was born fighting against nationalism? You look at the Catalan self-employed, also the independenceists, the entrepreneurs and the workers, and tell them that their problems are solved with a table. Their problems are solved with the aid that Citizens have taken from the government, negotiation by negotiation. You are not able to do that with your table, your table and your table. You can insult Mrs. Arrimadas, the president of my party. And you think that's what's gonna provoke me, like I'm a little kid and I come here and then I mess with you? He's not gonna make it, he's not gonna make it. [[Laughs from Mr. Rufián Romero]] Insult me if you want, provocate me whatever you want, you won't get me to insult you or lose respect for you, because I won't think about it; I'll think about what my duty is, just that. It is time not to take a step back, to leave this state of alarm in order for its various phases, in full equality with all the Spaniards, in accordance with their health conditions, as we have asked the Government, without privileges for being Basque or for being Catalan; not, all united, all equal. It is time not to lower the guard, to ask the Spaniards for the last effort, to continue to comply with the rules of distancing, with the masks, with the slots, for the benefit of our elders. It is time, Mr President, to acknowledge the mistakes so that they will not be repeated again. It is time for the new policy, the union, the agreements, the pacts. It is time to predict how to fight a new epidemic without a state of alarm. See how a plan B was possible? We have just announced that you are carrying a royal decree-law on Friday to the Council of Ministers. It wasn't: I or chaos; no, there was a plan B, as we asked. It is time to seek consensus and agreement to coordinate the health competences of the autonomous communities, because we all believe in the state of self-government. It is time to put in place labour measures, financial measures, economic measures to keep no one on the road: neither the poor, nor the self-employed, nor the employers, nor the workers, nor the families; we have to be with everyone, with coordination between administrations. Yes, it is the time for vital minimum income - of course it is - effectively, with coordination, aimed at obtaining employment. That's where he's been, that's where he is and that's where my party will be; that's where Citizens will be, helping the government to get good things for the general interest, for everyone, whatever his ideology or wherever they want to live; untying the ERTE from the formal declaration of the state of alarm; giving hope to entrepreneurs and workers; demanding measures and reforms that avoid new states of alarm; demanding speeding up the payment of the ERTE; getting fiscal moratoriums that are an oxygen balloon for the entrepreneurs of this country; getting that economic plan to support tourism to see if we don't lose this tourist season, and making an ambitious plan that allows so many families to eat from this industry in Spain that Mr. Garzón says it brings no added value; supporting so that no one will be left on the road; believing in the solidarity of all, all, the whole united country; guaranteeing the equality of all Spaniards in all parts of the national territory, be Catalans, Basques, equals, all of the whole, of the whole. This is true solidarity, real solidarity; this is real politics, this is what was called the noble art of politics, and not those hoaxes that are mounted here, one freeing oneself against others through insults, what is called useless politics. My party makes politics useful. We will therefore vote yes, we will vote yes to the Spaniards; Mr Sánchez, you know that you are voted no and we will vote no that not so long as you continue with this bad government for Spain, this Frankenstein government. We will vote in conscience, we will vote with calm conscience, we will vote in peace to fulfil our duty to be a responsible party, to be a state party. We continue to reach out to him in this last extension of the state of alarm, and we will require him to discharge his responsibility. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque parliamentary group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that, once again, what should be a debate on the extension of the state of alarm has become a pseudocopy of what is usually called a debate on the state of the nation and that I call a debate on the state of the state, in which many things have been mixed up, starting with you, Mr President, and then following other parliamentarians. I do not know whether it is good for this debate to be held permanently every fifteen days, especially at a time when it seems that the forces of the parliamentary arc are on many occasions heading in the direction, curiously, at a time of crisis - beyond health care, which fortunately seems that we are winning - very important economic and with fundamental challenges that must be solved in the near future, of bringing down the government in office, which does not seem to me to be the most prudent thing in the situation in which we are in, beyond the major or minor differences that may exist with it. Today it seems that the session has gone a little smoother than last week, but I've been picking up some things today. Of course, the debates focus on something he already defined as a Schopenhauer strategy in his famous book The Art of Being Right, in which he defined thirty-eight strategies. And of the last strategy, with which he did not agree very much, but that he said that it could also be used, he said: In his case, because the knights do not usually do it, it is usually done by vulgar people, when it is warned that the opponent is superior and that one will not be able to bear the reason, be personalized, be offensive, rude. Personalization is that one departs from the object of the discussion and somehow attacks the contender and his/her person and completely abandons the object of the discussion. And of course, when this happens, it is very difficult to keep calm and say, as Temistocles Auribiades said before the battle of Salamina: beat me, but listen to me, and not fall into the same tactic. I sincerely believe that it does not lead to anything good, but today, in this session, I am not referring to that of the previous week, in this session we have, for example: We already know what his word is worth, more soy arrogance than of a seat, full of populism, agitprop, manic discourse, equality is fought at a price of balance, he does not tire of lying, dishonor, cursi language, he will not be able to continue lying, separatist supremacism, negligence, vanity, fanaticism, uncleanness, parasites, we have a president who is a small-scale fanfaron - literal - or the 8M is a living death, when said by those who had their own assembly and their own congress just that week. We have, in fact, seen again a debate on coarse salt, which surprises us in such a situation of concern for the economic future and, therefore, so pressing for the well-being of the citizenry. We, going to the state of alarm, first of all welcome the positive figures we are seeing in the area of health. There is no doubt that the pandemic is being controlled, that we must not be neglected, but that we are on the right track; we would probably have signed the power to be in these figures and with this evolution three or four weeks ago. Therefore, I think it is something for everyone to congratulate. We also welcome the agreement we have reached for the extension of this state of alarm, an agreement which, unlike what Mr Bal pointed out, said that the measures contained in order to respond to the health emergency will be identical throughout Spain at the end of the confinement, because it does not say that, what he says - and now I read from the bulletin - the second paragraph of Article 7 is as follows. 'The delegated competent authority for the adoption, abolition, modulation and implementation of measures corresponding to phase 3 of the descalation plan shall, in the exercise of its powers, be the sole holder of the Presidency of the autonomous community, except for measures linked to freedom of movement which exceed the scope of the territorial unity determined for each autonomous community for the purposes of the descalation process.' It seems to me that it is very reasonable and it seems to me that it is very appropriate, because we all know that the evolution of the pandemic has been and is different in some places and in others. In this case, it has been decided that at this stage 3 the presidencies of the autonomous communities should be the only authorities and therefore decide not only to take measures, to modulate them and to implement them, but also to abolish them, to modulate this state of alarm. In fact, the third paragraph even speaks of the finalization, at the time when adequate health conditions were given in the opinion of the autonomous communities, of that state of alarm. It seems very reasonable to me, but I cannot share your phrase, Mr President, because I believe you have contradicted yourself in your speech. He said that the autonomous communities did not lose competences despite the single command, to then say that management was kept in the hands of the autonomous communities. But, of course, then he added, already talking about the new text: Now, in addition to management, the decision. Of course!, it is that competition is not just management, competition in most cases is the decision, especially when in some cases there are exclusive competences, in others shared and in others where the Government, not in this crisis, has been tangential in its activity in a normal situation. Of course it's more than management! and, whether we like it or not, less bad that the term co-decision and co-management was introduced, which I think has been working quite well, but we do not have to say things as they are not. Of course, they could manage and co-manage the autonomous communities, and of course they were the ones who proposed, but we had to agree with Mr. Illa and his Government. At this stage 3 this is not going to happen, but all the competences are already being recovered. In any case, I believe that we have reasonably taken all these steps, Mr President, it seems to me that we have been, I understand, responsible and cautious, even though, as you will understand, it was not a pleasant situation for us from our ideological point of view, but in support of the state of alarm we have voted all the extensions and we will also vote this, because we thought that the situation was of course exceptional, the situation was dangerous in every way for absolutely every citizen and that it was more worth being cautious and trying to carry out all the steps that could be taken. These powers are now fully recovered, but I would ask the Government to reflect, because it is in its hand and this is reserved for the Government, on mobility, beyond the different units of descalation. In some cases it is the entire autonomous community, in others it is provinces and in others it is not even provinces. I would ask you in that case of bordering territories, which are already in phase 3 or advanced phase 3, in which both call for the possible communication of mobility between their citizens on both sides, not to be completely closed in band, that at least it could be studied and that it could be studied on a case-by-case basis and that this instead would be possible. On the other hand, those territories with international borders have a specific problem. I say this because on the border with France there are citizens living in one place but studying in the other, working in the other or having the family in the other place. In the case of the frontier of the Autonomous Community and of Navarre, which is already in the most advanced phase, Aquitaine, and also the Aquitaine authorities would be interested in being able to speed up this border crossing. Trajectories that normally cost ten minutes at this time usually cost more than an hour and a half or two hours. I believe that we are already in a position to facilitate all this, and that falls within your competence, Mr President. Obviously, this is the last extension. I hope that citizenship is responsible; I believe that we do not have to neglect the containment measures and our protection measures, but this should undoubtedly be the last extension. I believe that we must agree - as we have remained so - that decree-law to maintain the necessary measures for once we enter into normalcy, precisely to preserve that kind of care. That text should therefore be known in advance and should be very limited and timely. We are not talking about coordination of anything, but about going to the concrete and absolutely necessary measures to ensure that the pandemic does not expand again. You've talked a lot about economics and then, in control, we'll have a chance to talk because my question is about it. But time is running out to make certain decisions and there is no use in that so-called Reconstruction Commission, as it is structured. Dozens and dozens of attendees are going to pass in four different areas so that each of us will then present a text that you will know what you are going to converge on, and also you want to make decisions on matters that would require reflection of months and months within fifteen or twenty days. If we want to take effective action, we cannot be waiting for solutions from there. Time is running out and decisions have to be made. With regard to the state of alarm, I would like to make another thought. We are already at some advanced stages and even more and more airports are opening up as international airports, but we still have a problem with workers in some economic areas. It cannot be that quarantine is maintained; if protection measures can be maintained, a bubble can be made, between the staff and the people who come, but if we want some businesses to stop and some industries to endure, we need a material reception, we need technicians from here to third countries and to put these machines into operation, etc. And all that, guaranteeing security measures, we have to try to speed it up, not through a quarantine, but by looking for other measures. I think solutions can be sought. I know that we are going to go through phase 3 quickly and that you will certainly have raised this, but if you are going to get up because there are more and more international airports, let us put the remedy as soon as possible in this area as well. For all this, Mr President - I am running out of time - confidence is needed in order to continue to move forward in the future and to be able to move forward with force, conviction and with the least possible impact in terms of unemployment, in terms of the regression of the economy and in terms of social progress, and confidence is generated by knowing in advance the initiatives that the Government intends to present. Please count on our cooperation as long as that trust is maintained by all parties. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum.-Pause]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u28	Thank you, President. Eskerrik asko. The state of alarm was decreed on 14 March. Those days, not only the Government, but all the citizens began to be aware of what was happening and, yet, we were not aware of the magnitude of the crisis that was going to shake us. I sincerely believe that no one, neither the citizen nor the Government nor the different institutions or those who sit in this House could foresee what was coming. I think it's fair to recognize that. It's not that we failed, it's that we met before something unknown that overcame us. Today, eighty-two days later, after a confinement, after regretting thousands of deaths, after having brought to the limit the health and its great professionals, after living one of the most extreme situations we have ever experienced, we voted for the last extension of the state of alarm. It's a symptom that things are getting better. On Monday we knew the good news that, at last, neither in my country nor in the State had been killed by COVID. Although small bursts are now occurring, it is great news that we owe it to those who have left their skin all this time to take care of us, to those who have been able to bring us before and also to the collective responsibility and capacity of sacrifice of the people. Citizenship has given a great lesson and we must continue to teach it so as not to take steps back. But it is time to take stock and, Mr Sánchez, I will start with your government. [[The Lord]] I'll start by telling you something from the utmost sincerity. We believe that your Government in this pandemic has made mistakes, but we also believe that it has been successful. I am going to talk to you about the darkest part - the darkest part of the management, of course, of these months - the management of this pandemic and the state of alarm carried out by your Government. And I say dark because from one day to another he suspended competencies and self-governments; he centralized decisions; he separated those who knew health realities better; he pulled the army out into the streets, in a kind of patriotic advertising campaign, and turned his back on dialogue and consensus. Thus, the state of alarm became a sort of police state and single command that far from giving security generated a buzz in the citizenry. Today it has been shown that there was another way to manage this crisis, Mr Sánchez, and it seems that you have gradually assumed it too. We were many who from this atrium repeatedly asked him to listen, that there was another way to manage it, and time has given us reason. Co-management, co-governance, common work is what has ended up imposing. This is one of the first lessons we must draw: always, always, the ability of the territories to govern themselves must be respected. The competences cannot be removed and put, the competences are respected and fulfilled. Today I would like to be able to accept your commitment here that this great mistake that you made at the start of this pandemic will not be repeated; that cooperation, bilaterality and mutual respect for the nations and territories of this State and its governments and institutions will henceforth be irreplaceable values for your Government. But no, I won't tell you that you've done everything wrong and that's why I'm going to value the steps that have been taken. The social and economic measures that his Government had taken during those months, although insufficient, had been in the right direction. It has protected the most vulnerable sectors, preventing them from losing their homes, ensuring them essential services such as light, water or gas, the ERTE formula as a measure to curb the massive loss of jobs has been successful, and so has the vital minimum income that is so much needed for hundreds of thousands of people or the measures for the self-employed who, although totally inadequate, have at least allowed them to breathe. Yes, Mr Sánchez, your Government has also been successful, and I recognize that, but I would ask you again not to be a momentary patch to save a situation of absolute emergency. I ask that the social sensitivity shown by some of the ministries be maintained and strengthened. I ask that the social and economic shield be expanded and extended, because the health pandemic has been very harsh but the economic and social pandemic will be no less. All these measures have come forward with a progressive majority in this House, a majority that must take care of and strengthen because, as I said, it is the only way to make social and economic progress possible. Your Government, Mr Sánchez, has opened new channels of dialogue with all the political forces in this Chamber. We could say that it is a step forward that, so far, had not been taken. You have had political courage to dialogue and agree with those who think differently than you, thus articulating that progressive majority. And, thus, this pandemic has shown that there are and are possible basic consensuss that benefit citizens, that progress is possible when looking to the left; another lesson to be learned. I stress this because now comes the most difficult, making the social and economic decisions that will mark the future of millions of people. It is here, as I always remind you, where you will have to decide: whether it is in favour of the popular or working classes or in favour of the interests of capital and large companies. Because look, yesterday we knew that since 18 March the fortunes of the twenty-eight richest in this state have increased by more than EUR 14 billion; those people who were already infinitely rich, now in the midst of the pandemic, are even more so. While most were struggling to survive, they were getting rich, and I'm sure that, like most, this will also sound to you. I will be very clear with this, Mr Sánchez, we are not going to allow this crisis to be paid back by the people, and I repeat, we are not going to allow this crisis to be paid back by the people. We are not going to allow the rich to become richer at the expense of the rest, nor are we going to allow the big companies to continue to become richer at the expense of firing or insecure the workers, nor are we going to allow the banks to rob us again, nor are we going to allow those who won so much on our coast to win again. Let the rich and the capital pay for this crisis, because now - now it is - it is their turn. I tell you more, if it depends on us, neither the right-wing nor its IBEX partners nor their neoliberal policies nor their interests will have the capacity to decide or to influence the future of citizens' lives. We are sure that the left-wing groups in this House share this principle. Therefore, before you make any decisions, think well about who you want to govern, who you want to protect and, consequently, who you want to count on. I say this to you because I want to insist on something that you have not yet responded to, which way you want to take, that of rebuilding the old or that of transforming to the new. You must choose: or bet by the social majority, by the workers and their rights, or your Government will have a very short way to go. I say this so that you can take it into account in the face of the temptations to follow the voices that, inside and outside your Government, tear your clothes when you decide to protect and increase workers' rights. Some doubt that it is time to make quiet decisions to build a wall that curbs inequality, poverty, unemployment, precariousness, loss of rights and freedoms. For us, it is more urgent than ever to give safety to workers, shielding and dignified jobs so that, for once, life and dignity are protected than the gains of the employer; that when this pandemic ends and strikes us even more forcefully the economic and social crisis, the citizenship, the popular classes, have more security and more protection. To avoid that, as we are seeing in companies like Nissan or Alcoa, companies are free to fire practically for free. That is one of our goals: to maintain and dignify employment; and let no one doubt that we are going to push and work to make this a reality. Says his motto: We get stronger. If you and your Government comply with the demands of those who intend to lead this State from the boards of directors, we no longer come out stronger. Sera: They will come out even stronger and even richer. I told you, Mr Sánchez, we do not owe either to you or to your Government and, less so, to the economic powers that put pressure on you. We owe it to citizenship and its well-being. And you, who do you owe it to? I hope you have a clear answer. In these months of pandemic, we have heard debates in this Chamber, proposals have been discussed, dialogue has been held and agreements have even been reached that we could call historic. We have all moved from our comfort zone, our comfort positions; we have all risked our political positions by trying to safeguard the common good, which was people's health and rights. Most of us have demonstrated historical responsibility, we have been able to live up to what we were asked for and were expected of us. We have all portrayed ourselves: some have tried to throw down everything that has cost citizens so much to achieve and overcome, while trying, pot in hand, to overthrow the Government; others have demonstrated responsibility and coherence by putting the interests of the people above the partisan interests; we have acted with firmness but serenity, and today we will do so again allowing the last extension of the state of alarm with our abstention. As is often said, history will put everyone in their place, and history will remind us where we were, what we did each, each, in one of the worst moments of the present history. Some of us can look back quietly and feel proud to know that we did everything we could to help and protect citizens. Others will look back and I hope they will do so with deep shame. That is why I would not like the steps that have been taken during these months to be appalled by the hatred of those who have contributed nothing but chrispation, confrontation and division. They're trying to pin down politics when people wait for consensus; they're trying to generate hatred while we're being asked to understand; they're making fun when citizens ask us to calm down. We must not allow it. We have already said this: this state needs a lot of anti-fascist pedagogy and a lot of democratic culture. And it's in sight. The demands that have taken the streets in the United States in recent days once again highlight the dichotomy faced by much of the world and also faced by this state: fascism versus democracy. Some in this House have chosen sides: racism, xenophobia and hate for others. Others are quite clear that we are and will always be antifascists. It is up to the rest of you and your Government to take a stand and tell them unequivocally that they will face us, and that they will face us with the best of answers: more social justice, more equity, more equality, more rights and more freedoms for all. That is what hurts them most: class solidarity and solidarity among peoples. That is why Euskal Herria Bildu's solidarity with those who fight for justice and against racism and fascism on the streets of the United States should come from here. We stand with you, black life matter. And I'm done. We believe that it is time for broad agreements in progressive and left-wing terms to build a more dignified, more sustainable future with more rights and freedoms for all. Explore this path, Mr Sánchez, with political courage and social determination; explore it because we are sure, and you can count on it, that if you move on this path you will have enough support to make the citizens of our countries, that all the citizens of this State improve their present and their future, which is just what we promise them that we will do. The pandemic has not yet ended, it has only fallen in intensity, we remain vulnerable and we must continue to take care of ourselves. That is why my last words I want them to be so that no one, no one forgets who has protected us in the worst moments, who has left their skin for all of us, who have been the essentials, who have protected life and who now remain so much or more essential. Horregatik, therefore thanks to those who have cared for us. Mila mila esker zaindo gaituzuen guztia. Zuek gabe, ez race.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u29	Thank you very much. Then, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which accumulates its turn of reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u30	Thank you, President. As other speakers have done, I cannot begin without talking, first, about the people of the Nissan - thanks for being on the streets. Aim for the struggle of the working class - and Black Lives Matter. And it is that these days, with what is happening in the United States, many spokesmen have remembered the lesson Europe learned after the Second World War, and it is that being a Democrat is being anti-fascist. But this can't be just words. Institutional racism in this state has taken many lives: the dead of Tarajal, Samba Martine, Idrissa Diallo, Mame Mbaye, are just some of the names of people killed by institutional racism. That the CIEs never open again and that no person ever again is illegal! To Mr. Abascal - who I don't know where he is, I hope he's clearing up the mess in his head because he mixes apples with pears all the time - I want to tell him that if he wasn't so far-right and so racist, he would have made a motto for making 'antifas and minas' shirts. Feminazis and Catalans have been left behind. Returning to the state of alarm, we want to start with a few words from Gil de Biedma. He said: Of all the stories, no doubt the saddest is that of Spain, because it always ends badly. We want to start by talking about the state of alarm, giving condolences to all dead people and being glad that the dead are coming down and the pandemic is coming down too. We also wanted to see from this stand the infamy and moral misery of the Spanish right which, while the dead accumulated, has not hesitated to do merchandise of the dead; has not hesitated to make lamentable speeches while the people died in handfuls. [[Rumors]] I see that everyone is looking at the phone; it will be out of shame, I don't think it's because of the importance of the messages. Alarm state. Economic measures. We have said this several times: for us the measures have not been sufficient. The minimum living income is fine, but if the banks do not return the ransom, if there is no tax on the big fortunes and if you cannot nationalize the Nissan, the crisis pays the usual ones. The speeches on democracy are very good, Mr President, we welcome the fact that there is a president who speaks of a democratic state, but that is that next door we have a corrupt monarchy that never goes through a court. Look, from the case that the Swiss prosecutor investigates, which is the transfer of 100 million dollars from the king of Saudi Arabia to the emeritus king - this was in 2008-, to the safari scandal in Botswana, in 2012, with Mrs Corina, who also received 65 million euros and who later declared, in Swiss court, that it was a gift for her and her son; or also the case of the AVE of Mecca, 6300 million euros more. And it is that Mr Juan Carlos collects 194 232 euros per year of public revenue. Do you intend to investigate the corruption of the monarchy or do we have to stand up for your son to ask the nobles to give us milk? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In addition, we have said this on occasion, you have set up a state of alarm based on public order. We assume they intended to kill the virus with sticks, as they did on October 1. And it is that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have been feeding the judicial machinery against Catalans for years and this week the Supreme Court is ruling against the Supreme Court of Canarian Justice so that there can be no flag more than the Spanish one in any city of the whole Spanish State. You have for years, both the PSOE and the People's Party, fueling impunity in the high bodies of the State Security Forces and Bodies and now, on the criterion that you want to clean up, you are rebelling internally. Of those muds, these muds. And anyone who thinks that with the PSOE you can do more than rule without touching anything, or is naive or wants to participate in it. The news that goes to the media today is that Mr. Montilla goes to the board of directors of Enagas. And back to the beginning. For the PSOE, neither red nor broken. And it is not about supporting a government at any cost so that it does not govern the right; it is about dragging the government to govern for the people and for the working classes. The contrary, ladies and gentlemen, is to prepare the ground for these, and to the surveys I refer. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group]] We, as an ethical and practical principle, refer to the defense of the Catalan countries, a country of countries for its people.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u31	Mrs. Vehi, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u32	I'm done, Madam President. Excuse me. I ended up with a quote from Marina Garcés, advancing our negative vote to the extension of the state of alarm, obviously. She says: More than the fragility of the system, what shows us the pandemic is inequality and social violence on which our normality works. Thank you very much and I apologize, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u34	Thank you, Madam President. While here they insult each other, while here they hate each other, while here they anger the passions, out there there are still people in the uci debating between life and death. There are people who are sick in hospitals - thousands of people - and at home. There are thousands of toilets who have not been able to rest. There are many older people who continue to die and many people. And there's a lot of people who haven't been able to hug or kiss their parents yet. I'm ashamed and I feel like crying. The Canarian nationalists, without ruling in the Canary Islands or in the State, have supported all the decisions - sometimes right and sometimes not - until today and we will continue to support them, because we represent what is happening outside, which is not what is happening here. Yesterday the unemployment data came out, Mr President, and in the Canary Islands, unlike the rest of the state, the situation is getting worse. We have half a million people between ERTE and unemployment, and it has even increased. Yesterday came the data of the Government of the Canary Islands that two out of ten companies are at risk of bankruptcy. At last, Brussels, its ministers, and at last its Government, have recognised the situation of social drama that we are going to experience. The Canarian nationalists have concluded an agreement with the Government and it is not a matter of discrimination, but we simply need business muscle, tourism, not to break. At the moment, between ERTE and unemployment we are in half a million people, which accounts for 54% of Canarian citizens. We need those companies to be able to endure until December, if necessary, so that, if there is no second wave, in October, which is our high season, we can move forward. In this regard, last week there has been significant progress between our political force and his Government, with meetings in Madrid. Let us hope that next week, with the cooperation of the Government of the Canary Islands, will evolve the differentiated ERTs in the Canary Islands and allow that half a million people to have hope. We are a responsible party, we are sensible and, above all, we try to represent the citizens with dignity, with wisdom, with tolerance, eradicating hatred and, above all, by living up to the circumstances that we are living in this country. Yesterday the mother of a friend of mine died. And because of the irresponsibility of many who do not comply with the rules and of others who do not comply with the recommendations, there are rebounds. We all have a responsibility that what we've been through these months doesn't come back, because the life and vital projects of a lot of people are at stake. 50% of young people in this country are unemployed. That's all I'm saying. Dignity in this House, as citizens are having dignity. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, as is well known, New Canarias has supported since its investiture all the government's actions that have been decided so far, because in New Canarias we believe that a progressive response is what the majority of Spanish society needs. A clear example is the recent approval of the minimum living income, which we not only support, but also applaud. It seems to us that this is what differentiates one answer from the other. In the last debate we had to disagree with our abstention on some issues that we believed could be resolved. And we have done the right thing, we have started to dialogue and, as a result, I think we have agreed. We have already said to the satisfaction that in the Canary Islands there are two pandemics, as in all places; the only thing that happens is that the second pandemic, the social and economic one, will be much harder than the first one in the Canary Islands. We do not forget our 151 dead, who seem few, but there are 151 people who, one after the other, are a few. To update data, as Mrs Oramas has already said, more than 40% of the working population in the Canary Islands is unemployed or in need of help. This is a monstrous figure and, of course, there is no expectation that it will be resolved alone. The obvious singularities of the Canary Islands, evident and recognized also by the European Union in our outermost status, allow us to say that a different way out for a different reality must be envisaged. On 30 May, the Canary Islands Day, a solemn agreement was adopted in the Canary Islands, which is very important for economic and social reconstruction or, rather, social and economic reconstruction, to go in order. In that agreement, the vast majority of Canarian society is behind it. What was a proposal by New Canarias or the Government of the Canary Islands has become a proposal by the overwhelming majority of Canarian society, which is putting forward the following. It is about mobilizing all the resources available, essentially public, at this time - that is, indebtedness, surplus, unique and specific tourist policy for reasons I know well - because, if not, we will not be able to respond to what is coming, which is nothing more or less than a dramatic and deep, social and economic fracture in the Canary Islands. We believe that the seriousness of what we are proposing is based on clear data. Nobody comes here to cry and ask, because we're already crying from home. Here we come to put dramatic data on the table. For example, tourism accounts for 40% of employment in the Canary Islands. If we consider that what we have had so far is a tourist zero that is not going to be easy to go back to - as I will then ask the Minister of Tourism - we are faced with a drama to which we must respond and for this we trust in their cooperation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I see Mr. Marlaska's not here, I guess it's not because he resigned. I wanted to address him to tell him that in Pamplona and in the Foral Community of Navarre we are tired of allowing demonstrations in favor of our colleague Tomás' killer; we are tired. [[Applauds]] I suppose this is not the contribution to coexistence that Bildu's representative was talking about, I suppose this, this contribution to coexistence, will not be agreed between the Socialist Party and Bildu. I therefore ask Mr Marlaska, before he resigns, please continue to work to prevent these demonstrations. Mr Sánchez, the most obvious proof that no more than fifteen days of alarm is your speech today. He made an investiture speech, and to an investiture speech we voted no. We have voted for you all the states of alarm so far because we understood that they might be necessary, but no longer and it has been noted in your speech, because it has been an investiture speech and, as I say, to investiture, no. Why are we going to believe now that it takes another 15 days? If they've fooled us from the first moment! If they first told us there was going to be a case or two in Spain! Then they told us we shouldn't wear masks! If we were fooled by the tests, we were fooled by the tests the doctors, we were fooled by the protections of the doctors, we were fooled by the reports, we were fooled by the phases! If we've been fooled, that's what's serious, with the number of dead! If today we still don't know how many people have died in Spain! If we don't know today! If you've come to a point where you're just getting colored when you're telling the truth! That's the problem, and that's very serious, I repeat, it's very serious. With what we have not been deceived - and I believe that no one, but certainly not us - is with Bildu's covenant. They tell us: We have no choice but to agree with Bildu because the People's Party does not support us. I don't suppose anyone believes that, but no socialist. Listen, the vicelehendakari Chivite is with Bildu's vows, because they agreed in August. And yes, I say vicelehendakari because he has renounced his status as president of the Foral Community of Navarre to be the number two of Urkullu; yes, vicelehendakari. That's a pact with Bildu's vows. They have been pacting with Bildu since August, and the problem with pacting with Bildu is that as long as Bildu continues not to condemn ETA and continues to praise the existence of ETA, every time someone, whether you or anyone, pacts with Bildu, is helping legitimize the terrorist band ETA and its history; every time you deal with them without condemning terrorism, the criminal history of ETA is being legitimized, and that is being done. [[Applauds]] When he first came here he had 320 or more support and I believe that no vote against in this House, and he has squandered them because he did not want us to support him. Because when we voted in favour of the state of alarm, you called us miserable. That's when we voted for him; I don't know what they'll say today, that we're going to vote against him. If the nationalists and Mr Rufián abstained, he said he understood his abstention. That is to say, those who voted in favour of him were miserable, but Mr Rufián understood abstention and even negative voting. You wanted us to stop voting for you, and we have voted for you until today because we understood that it was necessary, no matter how hard you tried not to vote for you. Obviously, because what you want is the agreement you want and you don't want to know anything about a part of this Chamber which, you like more or less, represents half of the Spaniards. They want to make one Spain in front of the other Spain, and that is their responsibility, Mr Sánchez; that is so. And I'll tell you more. Of course, there is one thing that is obvious and, moreover, these days have been seen. How many people would remain with us if we had been confined two weeks earlier with data? Because I don't think it takes another 15 days, but I do think it was necessary to confine ourselves 15 days earlier, and I believe it now that I have known data. But you had data at that time, and that will have to be answered, because there are many dead and millions of affected families. As for economic reconstruction - I don't have time -, with which Sánchez we stayed, with whom he said four months ago that they didn't worry about Nissan or with whom he now says that we have to make a car plan? If they had taken care of Nissan four months ago, now we wouldn't be like we are, nor would the people working in Nissan be worried about what's going to happen to them tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u39	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, progress is being made in supporting this further extension. We have supported the Government from the outset, because we understood that in this situation we all had to row together in the same direction. On the other hand, there was also no very different alternative, regardless of concrete, loose measures, from other political groups and from other autonomous governments that have emerged throughout the process. The fact that the Government has not taken up these proposals, even if it has made mistakes of all kinds, both in form and substance - I will not list them - did not justify voting against the state of alarm; there was no better alternative to this state of alarm nor did we intend to make a change in chromosomes. This time, they have finally taken real account of the requests to delegate to the autonomous communities the particular measures of each one on their territory, as the Government of Cantabria has been demanding since the third extension. From now on, a new stage is coming. Numerous measures have been taken, which have been successful during these months, in general all of a temporary nature and necessary to compensate for the social and economic consequences resulting from the confinement and sudden paralysis of economic activity. But the fact is that the crisis has just begun, that it will last, that it affects all layers of society and that a recovery plan is needed as soon as possible, and as consensual as possible. In the PRC we want to maintain consistency and provide ideas and suggestions for this plan and for the benefit of all. I am here to defend Cantabria's interests and to contribute our recipe. For twenty-five years in Cantabria, agreements have been reached to govern, and moderate programs have always been developed, far from the extremes. That is why there has been political stability in Cantabria, without a government crisis. Citizens have passed this serious crisis without added political problems, with social measures that have served to alleviate dramatic situations, as has happened throughout Spain. We are not in the strategy of harassment and destruction, but I also tell you that you will have us on your side, provided that reasonable measures are taken for the whole of Spain and that the commitments to Cantabria are fulfilled, which are fully consistent with national recovery and even with the criteria of the European Union. But for our party the first thing is Cantabria. I have already had the opportunity to express in this rostrum during the last few months what can be expected of us; you know that, as most Spaniards also know, through Miguel Ángel Revilla, whose opinions are well known throughout Spain. That is why, Mr Sánchez, in Cantabria they will have to make a great effort if they want to regain the confidence that citizens need to put in their rulers, and it is not so complicated. Apply common sense, put your feet on the ground, take realistic measures and, above all, listen to the whole of society and not just the parties that have dubious support in all the measures you bring here and that probably do not even have the same goals as your own party.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u41	Mr. Mazón, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u43	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me echo a good news from Asturias: the Princess of Asturias Prize of Concordia has just been awarded to Spanish health workers who fought in the front line against COVID. [[Applauds]] It serves this important recognition to the work of so many professionals who risked and gave their lives to serve the health of others in this contagious pandemic. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, we are faced with this plenary meeting, which is supposed to be the last request for an extension of the state of alarm, which will lead the Spaniards to complete more than three months of exceptional measures as a result of the tragic COVID-19 pandemic, whose fatal victims have systematically been converted into removal statistics and put at the convenience of the Government, and those infected as well. As in previous extensions, I have tabled a motion for a resolution which I support and, having regard to the precedents, I also reject. So I will vote against this sixth request to prolong the state of alarm, which is unnecessary to protect public health because the Government has extensive instruments in our ordinary legislation, as some spokesmen have already reminded it. Other spokesmen condition their support with parliamentary pacts in which all kinds of favors, advantages and political sinecurities prevail for the territories that represent, by crushing, by the hand of the Government, Spain of equality. Mr Sánchez, two years after his arrival in the presidency, everything that could go wrong with the Spaniards has gone to worse, except for their partners, who continue to make a profit always at the expense of the rest. Therefore, it is false his massive propaganda that the Spaniards came out stronger from this coronavirus tragedy. We have 43 000 dead; unemployment shot; the sozobra industry; Nissan-Barcelona and Alcoa-Lugo, closed; sunk tourism and trade; the self-sustaining destroyed; and the future of Spain at a gambling table. Therefore, the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction, created here in Congress, also with the government in the middle, is not the appropriate formula or composition to design Spain's response to the calamity that is looming over key sectors for growth and employment, and to meet the immediate needs of the Spaniards. Finally, I would like to point out that, following the latest scandal by the Minister of the Interior, illegally beating accredited law and order servants, the Government has managed to carry out the Aristotelian curse of not being believed, even if it tells the truth, that it is certainly not the case either. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, and lastly, you have the floor, Mr Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u46	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I was not able to go to the last plenary because I was convalescent in a surgical intervention, but that has accidentally allowed me to act as a citizen on foot more and to convey to them what the street thinks, what we think many from the street. It is truly outraged and saddened by what is happening here in every debate of the state of alarm. Health, the health of the Spaniards, always seems to go into the background and we debate anything else that is not the crucial problem, especially when the virus is still on the street and still kills. Things are negotiated - depending on the support or the abstention - that have nothing to do with and for which there would be another time and, on the other hand, things are also sometimes brought from the Government that do not know that we are in an autonomous state. The autonomous status of the State should be taken into account from the outset, or that the Spanish reality is so different that, from and around large cities, it cannot be legislated for the whole territory as if it were unique; there should be differentiated legislation from the beginning in each case, which would not oblige the other groups to negotiate their support on the basis of corrections, since some of them could have already been done on their own initiative by the Government itself. However, we, as we have done before, will support the extension of the state of alarm for consistency because, as we have stated on other occasions, we understand that it is supported by a scientific and medical criterion that we support, and because for us the health of the Spaniards will never be behind our partisan interests. If we want to note also that, although we say that we should not talk about these things here, obviously we give our support and we have given it without any condition. We have never negotiated - at any time - our support for something. It is true that in the appropriate area and when appropriate - we imagine that this tremendous national crisis will be overcome - we will want to talk about the things that brought us here, about the solutions for Teruel, for Aragon and for the whole of Spain emptied, but we have always recognized that the debates of extension of the state of alarm are not the place. There is one important element that we believe is going to change, as the President has announced, quite a lot, and it is the help of the European Union, the European funds that are going to arrive. This is probably going to have to speed up all the processes we have going on, even new processes because we will have to invest all that money correctly, at most in a decade. I think it's the same plan and the deadline about 2027. I mean, what we had planned in seven years will have to multiply it with many more funds and we have to be right. We see with concern that the trend now is to get out of where we are, but get out to return to the previous normality and we want to highlight a tremendous paradox. With the development model that we were working on, at a certain point we chose between a population system that we could describe as few and very dense cities in front of larger and less dense cities. The problem of densification brings with it pollution problems, health problems, problems of increased mobility, and we are going to devote the funds to solving those problems generated by a previous decision when, if we changed it, there would be no problems or funds to solve them. It would not be necessary to have an absolutely technological medicine because there would be no respiratory problems or many other problems that we now have.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u47	Mr. Guitar, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u48	Let us meditate, let us see that the effort to change to another development model can be more effective, much cheaper and efficient for the whole of Spain, and let us have the intelligence to be right in all the solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u50	Thank you, Madam President. President, ladies and gentlemen, the data improve, and I say it without any triumphalism and yes with great responsibility because there are still dozens of infected every week and the virus is still among us. But, after the greater collective effort we have made, today we can say with certainty that we are doubling the pandemic and we can ask for the last extension of the state of alarm. Every time I have appeared in this rostrum in these months, my first words have been to remind the victims and their families and also to thank the health and public services personnel for their work against the virus, and I would like to reiterate that thanks once again. Let me add today my gratitude to other people to whom we have rarely mentioned, but who have been and are decisive in the fight against the pandemic. I would like to thank from this rostrum the thousands of mayors, councillors, councillors and presidents of autonomous communities, who during these months have joined in an effort that had to be of all to have a result. Thanks to the parties and leaders, who have also made it possible in this House to make the necessary arrangements to face the greatest challenge we have ever faced. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take advantage of this latest debate on the extension of the state of alarm to claim the value of politics and the importance of the institutions. Politics and institutions - I firmly believe - are the only tools we have to face as a community the challenges facing us, and without the state of alarm - approved and extended in this House - we would not have doubled the pandemic curve. But we have done much more, in these months we have validated in this House many real decree-laws, measures in the field of public health, economics and work, to protect employment with ERTE, to protect workers, to protect self-employed, to protect families - ensuring electricity and water, also housing - to protect victims of gender-based violence, to help agricultural employment, to protect the cultural sector. Advance and protect, because it was what was needed and what had to be done. The institutions matter, and it should be said at this time when they are so committed to degrading politics. Politics is the greatest transformative lever that we have to create a more just society. That is the vocation with which we have created the Reconstruction Commission - from which a country project for Spain must come out, with the participation of all democrats - and that is the conviction with which, when most is lacking, the Council of Ministers has approved the minimum living income. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of freedom has many faces and many forms - all of them painful - and poverty is one of those forms. Poverty is the opposite of freedom because it is not free who has to choose between paying for their medicines or paying for their children's food; it is not free who has to choose between a wage of misery or unemployment; it is not free who has to choose between precariousness or economic exile, between sleeping under a roof or a meal plate. In our country, 21.5 per cent of the population suffer from severe poverty, 500,000 children live in households below the poverty line, households with no income or assistance that have worsened with the health crisis. And, ladies and gentlemen, polarisation is not just political or partisan, there are areas of our country that have the sad record of being among the most unequal in Europe, there are excluded sectors that are barely involved in politics. Just look at the percentages of abstention in some neighborhoods in the big cities. When the distance between social groups increases, the differences end up becoming divisions and pits that separate us. Inequality, which grows in some parts of our country, limits democracy, but also separates us, divides us and confronts us. That is why I believe that the dignity and quality of a democracy is not measured by what those who have the most enjoy, but by what it offers those who need the most, and with the minimum living income we will be a more dignified country, no doubt, but also a more united and freer country. That is the policy that is worth it; that is the policy that has brought us to this House to a large part of us and is expected to do so. Today I am proud to belong to the party that has once again promoted freedom and justice in Spain. My thanks to the President and to the entire Government, and let me particularise this thanks to one person: none of this would have been possible without your conviction and without your commitment, thank you very much, María Luisa Carcedo. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]] This is the good policy, this is the policy that is expected of us. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in times of uncertainty in which many people fear for their future or that of their family. There are parties that face this reality in a perverse way by casting that fear upon others, turning it into bitterness and fuelling hatred. And there are parties and leaders who decide to change things and turn fear into hope. In these months, our country has acted as a community of united citizens. Today we begin to reap the hope of the work we have done, but I have listened attentively to the interventions that have preceded me and I have noted with concern - like other speakers - that as the health crisis falls apart, extremism scales. And there are those who strive to turn that union into confrontation. I believe that this is also a challenge that we must face, with serenity and security, but with determination. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has forced millions of Spaniards to put on a mask, but it has also caused a few to take off their masks. Leaders who openly defend machismo, homophobia, racism and authoritarianism are in the institutions. Mr. Married, almost a year ago I warned you that you had the key. It is up to you - I said then - to have a place in the institutions or to return to the margins of history. You have two options - I told you -: either plant face to face extremism or bend your head. Look, he's been squatting his head in front of the far right for months; months in which he's opened the doors of the institutions and adopted both his speech and his way of doing politics that makes it difficult to distinguish one from the other. Do you think it was worth it? Do you believe that authoritarianism, division and hatred that sows the far right has increased or fallen in these months, Mr. Married? Do you think the far right is more civilized and more sensible? Today, Mr. Casado, we have seen you alone and ever closer to the corner of extremism, all you have left is VOX. That's what you've achieved in these months of appeasement of extremism and that's not where the main opposition party should be, because you don't join, but the country is on the move; Congress is still doing its job. The dialogue between the Government and the autonomous communities also works with virtually all the communities in which its party governs. Never in the history of democracy had so many conferences of presidents been held. They have never been all and each of the autonomous presidents summoned. The dialogue also extends to all institutions, the Government has on successive occasions called the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, also social actors to deal with issues important to workers, such as ERTE or the transition to new normality. I was saying it a moment ago, the institutions work, but then the plenary comes, the cameras turn on, you go on stage and your disqualifications, your disproportionateness and your misappointments arrive. Today we have again attended a new rosary of them. And look, it's not a matter of coming here with reproaches either, because I believe that what you have said and done these days is disqualified by itself. But I do want to say that you give an image of politics that does not correspond to the reality of our country and that harms us all. It harms democracy. Some say you're wrong, that what you do is a mistake; but it's not a mistake, it's a strategy. A strategy that you have been practicing for more than twenty years; every time the left comes to the government, the supposed moderation of the right jumps out of the window and begins the most disembodied confrontation. They did it in the '90s against Felipe González, Mr. Anson confessed, remember? To finish with Gonzalez, the stability of the state was roused, he said. They did so against the government of Rodriguez Zapatero encouraging delirious and dangerous conspiracy theories in which they called us terrorists, now they call it our parents. And they do so now, Mr. Casado, from the first day of the legislature, with all kinds of improvisations that do not deserve to be repeated, generating a tension that had not been seen in Spain since - sure you guess - the last time you lost the elections. Because that's what this is about, isn't it, Mr. Married? For you this is not about public health or the worst health crisis we have ever experienced, for you this is about the same as always: either it governs the right or it turns politics and institutions into a battlefield. Let Spain fall that we will already raise it; in that everything is summed up. Again, they have decided to become the biggest destabilisation agent in Spain. That is your strategy and it is time to say it openly, but, Mr Casado, I will tell you something that may shock you: Spain is not of the right, the State is not yours. Who forms government does not decide it either you or your party, the citizens decide it and were very clear, and you should do what you do is respect it because that is what democracy is about. It's enough of irresponsibility, Spain won't fall as long as they stick, and that's all right! You're fueling a fire you can't control. I'm going to tell you how it works: VOX says we live in a dictatorship, but everyone knows that they live by saying barbarities and that you don't have to pay much attention to them. But then you come or Ayuso or Alvarez de Toledo and repeat the same thing that the far right points to you: that we live in a dictatorship or a despotism - as you said a few days ago in this very rostrum - and that is the real danger because, when you repeat what the far right points to you, the message comes to millions of people who consider you a serious politician of a serious party. And then, their disqualifications in this House turn into shouts on the street, and shouts and insults never seek to convince; they seek to silence and frighten. And the higher those screams are, the less space there is for the word. And if the space for speech is reduced, institutions are resentful, politics is degraded and anti-politics is spreading. [[Applauds]] To oppose is what is expected of you, I have told you several times. Faced with the Government, we know that this is what we are playing and what we expect, even harshly, but, Mr. Casado, in your escalation to extremism you have trampled on all the red lines. When Mrs Álvarez de Toledo says that we have an authoritarian agenda, when Mrs Ayuso says that we live in a dictatorship, when Mr García Aegean says that we have totalitarian plans, they are not making opposition; they are undermining the institutions and degrading our democracy. You, Mr Casado, have come to say that the legitimate president of the government is the greatest traitor that Spain has; that you will activate the necessary measures to stop Sánchez's high betrayal of Spain - and I quote literally -; that Pedro Sánchez is an illegitimate president. A few days ago, in the same rostrum, he said that the President of the Government is a despot. The only policy you know is that of burning land, but what you're setting fire to is institutions, and that's all right! Over four decades, millions of Spaniards have voted for the Socialist Party. With this party in the Government, rights and freedoms have been extended: the Dependency Act, the Equal Marriage Act, equality policies, the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence, now the minimum living income. Does anyone remember any rights recognized by you, any freedoms extended by you? To whom do you intend to convince that we are a threat to freedom, to whom do you speak, Mr. Married? Because I think that's an interesting and quite enlightening question. Look, Spain has a problem with the far right, it is true, but another more serious problem is the fear that you have of the far right: fear that VOX will take away more votes, fear that a strategy that much of your party does not support will fail. Mr. Married, fear does not lead to the best decisions, and you are too afraid to plant face to the far right, so hold your speaker and squat your head. I tell you once again: putting your strategy of confrontation at any price in quarantine is a danger to democracy. And, by the way, it is no more Spaniards who vote on the right than those who defend public health; it is no better Spaniards who show up with braid than those who do it with white robes; it is no better Spaniards who show up against the government than those who do it on March 8. The good thing about meeting them is that they are also seen coming from afar. [[Applauds]] Eight years ago they took advantage of the financial crisis to increase the inequality between those who have the most and those who have the least, and now they want to take advantage of the health crisis to stop the struggle of women, to stop the struggle of all 8 March, to stop the struggle for equality between men and women, and we are not going to allow it; women will not be the losers of this crisis; here is a feminist government to avoid it. [[Applauds]] Stop that strategy of encouraging extremism and grudges, it will be better for you and it will be better for Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, equidistance cannot be the mask of anti-politics or anti-democratic politics. A true right-wing international spreads around the world, and those who believe they can play with that fire will end up burning. There is no middle point between those who defend democracy and those who attack it; there is no equidistant point between digging pits of grudge and building bridges between citizens, as does minimum living income and as has been done before by other policies of extension of rights and freedoms. One cannot be a Democrat without condemning authoritarianism, intolerance and discrimination. That virus is not fought with masks, but it is fought with responsibility, it is fought with unity, it is fought with courage, with principles and with values. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contributions and for the tone of the debate in this last and final extension of fifteen more days to overcome the health emergency. I expressed in my first speech something that I will fulfill in this reply, and that is that I would not respond neither with provocations nor with insults or gross accusations. This House, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has already said, must break the chain of hatred by not responding to provocation. We can all do something very important above the parties that are represented here and even the ideologies that each one legitimately defends, in the service of the people, blocking this kind of message with a response that I mentioned in my first intervention and that I would like to recall again, and it is expressing a non-rotundo to hatred and a non-rotundo to insult every time they occur. Unfortunately, we have once again had good proof of this way of doing politics, a form of politics linked with hatred, with discord, with fracture; finally, with the undermining, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group said earlier, of the most elementary principles of agreement, coexistence, respect and tolerance. It will not be my case, nor will it, fortunately - and in that I feel well reflected - the case of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which advocates for another kind of policy-making, and that is something I want to recognise as the first person in the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a matter in which, in the end, there have been two parliamentary groups which have felt somewhat alluded to, and which, in addition, have spoken a lot of one way or another in their speeches on 8 March; in the end, 8 March is the new conspiracy for the right and the right. Look, on 8 March, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, Mr Abascal, Mr Casado - in the end, both mountain and mountain - as I said, on 8 March, demonstrations were held on International Women's Day and equality between men and women throughout the world. [[applause]] In Berlin, for example, hundreds of thousands of people took part. Whose fault was it, Merkel or Dr. Simon, Mr. Married, Mr. Abascal? In New York, thousands more, is it the fault, Mr. Abascal, Mr. Married, of Trump or Minister Marlaska? In Santiago de Chile there was the largest demonstration in the world, with two million attendees, and I ask you whether it was the fault of President Piñera or the government delegate in Madrid, Mr Abascal, Mr Casado, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal. In Paris, hundreds of thousands of people protested on 8 March. Whose fault was it, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, Mr Abascal, Mr Casado, of President Macron or the Government of Spain? From Bombay to Lisbon, from London to Jakarta, no one knew what was coming over us, ladies and gentlemen; so it was, neither did you. The same thing happened everywhere. Lift your heads, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. The difference is not in what happened then; the difference is between who fights the virus and who uses the virus in bad faith to make partisan politics, as the People's Party and the far right of VOX are doing. [[Applauds]] The problem is not feminism, the problem is lies and provocation, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, Mr Abascal and Mr Casado. Do not use COVID as an excuse because you never liked gender equality, neither before nor after the COVID pandemic. In these more than eighty days it is true that they have slipped through a very dangerous slope, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Married is naked, today he has demonstrated it again from this rostrum. You will gain nothing by using this pain and, if you allow me to give you advice, do not join Mr.Abascal, make your party small and make the far right big. [[A Member: To Bildu.-Applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u54	However, I do not understand this fixation very well either, I have said it on some other occasion, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, Mr Abascal, Mr Casado. You have a fixation on feminism and March 8th. But why? Why do you have a fixation on feminism and March 8, ladies and gentlemen? [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u55	Mr. Echaniz, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u56	I'm just asking you a question, ladies and gentlemen. Why do only you around the world, the People's Party and the far right, relate feminism to COVID? Why? [[Protests]] This with regard to his obsession with March 8th. Let me now tell you about the State Security Forces and Corpses, which deserve all my respect and recognition. This is a government that, for example, in the two years that we have had - by the way, they have made a reference and then I will stop for a moment, Mr Casado and Mr Abascal, in the motion of censure - has approved a public offer of employment for the State Security Forces and Corpses, which is going to increase the replacement rate by 120 %; this is a government that approved the third tranche of salary equalization of the State Security Forces and Corpses a few days ago; this is a government that has put the greatest amount of public investment in the rehabilitation, reconstruction and dignification as a result of the facilities, in short, of the infrastructures in which the Civil Guard and the National Police develop and carry out their work; and this is a government, ladies and gentlemen, which has always respected and respected judicial independence, always. Mr Married, I am going to tell you in a very clear way so as not to leave any doubt: with this government there has been and will never be a political intrusion into the State Security Forces and Bodies. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, we are not the same, fortunately we are not the same, not only for ourselves, but also for democracy. I said earlier, the important thing is agreements between different, not total agreements. We are not the same, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, but I can guarantee one thing to the Spaniards: as long as the Socialist Party and the United States govern, we can in this coalition government, with this government will never, ever, ever produce a bad so-called Patriotic Police. [[Applauds]] As much as you are looking for, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, you will not find an evil so-called Patriotic Police in this government, that is, a police detachment with teams and with its own headquarters and dedicated to what? Not to defend the general interest, to defend the activities of the People's Party, including the persecution of political opponents and the cover-up of various corruptions of his party when he ruled this country. [[Applauds]] And you know what's going on, ladies and gentlemen? What happens is that the Minister of the Interior who is uncovering all this evil so-called Patriotic Police and who is collaborating with justice is Minister Marlaska, and that is why you are attacking him. [[Applauds]] If it seems to you wrong that the Ministers of the Interior or of any other department form their teams according to criteria of trust, you could have told the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz, who removed the commands he felt, like others; however, you kept quiet when he was spokesman for the People's Party. [[rumors]] And since it expresses such interest in the judiciary, could it begin by unlocking the renewal of the governing body of the General Council of the judiciary? [[Applauds]] It would thus prove to have a certain criterion and a certain usefulness as the main opposition party. In any case, Your Honor, this is like crying out in the desert. I am sorry, but it is not the first, nor the second, nor the third; it is already six times that I have come to this rostrum to appeal to unity, not to fall into provocation; in short, not to fall into that confrontation to which, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group said before, we are always accustomed to the right-wing opposition when it is in opposition. But under your leadership, Mr. Married, the People's Party and the acronym PP have become something else quite different; you are the party of permanent provocation, and in that provocation, Mr. Married, I can assure you that I will never be. You have also referred to the motion of censure; a motion of censure, by the way, legitimate, democratic and constitutional. I also remind you, Mr Casado, that you have made a kind of gap, a kind of leap of two years to this part and you have forgotten that I am now President of the Government not for a motion of censure, but for the direct vote of the Spanish; not one, two, three, or four, Mr Casado; five times. [[Applauds]] Mr Casado says that I am the President of the Government with the least parliamentary support in democratic history. I don't know, I should see it; I trust his word, even if it is for once, and without it being a precedent. [[rumors]] But I'll tell you one thing, you've lost five times the election in a year; that's quite a record. And it feels like he's in a pretty hurry to lose his Fridays. Well, look, there will be time for elections; but now it's time for a legislature and four years is going to be ruling this left and this coalition government. [[Applauds]] You question everything. They follow the strategy of the far right; they question the numbers of infected, they question the figures of the deceased. Finally, the figures of the workers who are covered by the temporary employment regulations are invented; they do not read anything, Mr Casado. Look, you've talked here about all kinds of birds, lame ducks... Another rooster would sing to us to the whole of Spanish democracy if you attended, Mr Casado, to the general interest and not to the interest of the far right. In any case, Your Honor, since you have always spoken of the numbers of the deceased and have always reproached the Government of Spain for not having approved the mourning, I imagine that you will be satisfied and happy - even with the pain that we all logically share - that we have been two days without death by COVID. It is that, if not, I would give the impression, Mr Casado, that you only use the dead against the Government of Spain, as, by the way, the People's Party has always done when you have been in the opposition; that is what you have always done. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the last extension of the state of alarm. I think this is a magnificent news that I would like to share with your ladies and gentlemen; it is a magnificent news because it means, first of all, that we are making progress in overcoming the worst health emergency that our country has suffered in the last hundred years - it is said soon, a hundred years - and it also means that we have an opportunity - and that is what I appeal to, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group - to change the tone of the debate, to avoid the country in the future some of the little or nothing upbuilding moments that you have played from this rostrum, both the People's Party and the ultra-right VOX. Today, with your new refusal to extend the state of alarm, Mr Casado, you are unable even to have a deliberate abstention, to enter into negotiations with the Government of Spain. You don't, you already say no, you don't understand your responsibility as a State, and with that what you are doing is generating a lot of buzz in the public debate and in Spanish politics. You have turned your back - I told you in the last control session - on State responsibility, and you have decided to follow the strategy of the far right. I insist, with that strategy they make their party small and they make the far right big. The script of the far right is what it describes, it is what we have seen and it is what we continue to see, by the way, as has been said by other speakers, in other countries. It is only the sad reflection of an evil of our time that all democrats, let us be of the sign that we are, in whatever country, we must unite to fight. Mr Errejón said this, he said it earlier from the rostrum, and I share it and I sympathize with the demonstrations that are taking place in the United States, because, of course, we are all very concerned about this very authoritarian debate and these authoritarian forms that are arising in response to mobilizations that have in their genesis some of the most difficult elements in the construction of a great country that we respect - and which, of course, I respect - which is the United States. The loyalty I have been demanding from you, in any case, Mr Casado, from the first day has nothing to do with the intensity of criticism. You can scream a lot and not be right or not attend to reasons. That intensity of criticism I understand and assume, as an indispensable part of the democratic game, but it also has to do with something much simpler and it is not to use, as I said before, tragedy and pain for partisan purposes and to make proposals to rebuild Spain urgently. In short, Mr. Married, what am I asking of you? Let him return to politics, sincerely, loyally, but return to politics. It is over, Mr Casado; assume it, there are four years ahead of the legislature as a result, by the way, of five elections which you have lost, two of which are general elections. Remember what I was saying to him: Hello, I am Pablo Married, and I have lost five elections in a year. A little humility and let's start working for the general interest of the country. Spain needs stability and management, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what it touches and we are going to give it to you, Mr Abascal, Mr Casado, in spite of you. After the descalation, we will focus on what it is about, which is reconstruction, social and economic recovery. I still hold his hand, even if it is an exercise even more of a certain nostalgia for some things than I, for example, with all the discrepancies I had with Mr Rajoy, I wish we could understand half of what I understood with Mr Rajoy in very complicated circumstances as well. [[Protests. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u58	Mr. Abascal, I understand that Mr. Married makes it very difficult for you, what we're going to do to you, makes it complicated for you. Where do you sit if you are not at the extreme of the extreme after listening to Mr. Married? I tell you one thing, two don't argue if you don't want to, and I'm not going to get into any of the provocations you've done here. I have enough with Mr. Married who comes to say, even, that we are living a sort of constitutional dictatorship. Dictatorship and constitution is an oxymoron, Mr. Married. In any case, I would like to remind you of a few things, because you too have been very obsessed with 8 March. The truth is that you have come up to this rostrum to defend gay pride; not yet feminism, to see if it goes step by step, even if it's inch by centimeter and we're moving forward and let's not back down, Mr. Abascal. [[Applauds]] Look, I will list some of the events that took place that weekend on 8 March, Mr Abascal. There were five First Division parties - five parties -; five Second Division parties; one final of the Cup of the Queen of Basketball; five ACB parties, of the Professional Basketball League; there were multiple congresses - I don't mean yours -, one of education in Ifema and, indeed, there were congresses of political parties, of your party, even with infected people. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u59	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u60	You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies and gentlemen of VOX, do not agree with International Labour Day or Gay Pride Day or Gender Equality Day, which is March 8. You refuse to celebrate everything that most Spaniards celebrate on the streets when they have occasion, which are the rights that we have won during these more than forty years of democracy. Finally, the question I leave in the air - because you have an answer, it is not rhetorical, Mr Casado and Mr Abascal - is why our country has the calamity that the right and the right are the only two parties in the world that link COVID with feminism. Why? What bad luck we've had, ladies and gentlemen! What bad luck we've had! [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] What I find superlative, Mr Abascal, is that you say that minimum living income is going to cause a flat-rate effect. So, you come to say that, for example, Caritas, which fights child poverty, also causes a so-called effect with its work? What you are saying is that if a State commits itself to eradicating child poverty, what we are doing is causing a so-called effect? Mr Abascal, your problem - I have understood it a long time ago - is not what we do, your problem is what we represent the two political parties that we are here; because what we represent are rights and freedoms, democracy, progress, inclusion, equality, tolerance, coexistence, brotherhood, everything that you do not represent and which, unfortunately, is following the right of this country. [[Applauds]] Mr Asens, I thank you for the tone of your speech. I also thank your parliamentary group, yourself and Mr Echenique - with whom I have more opportunities and opportunities to debate - for the constructive tone and joint work that the two parliamentary groups are doing, even from our differences, from our different perspectives to different problems. Let us continue in this work of reconstruction, coexistence, social justice and, indeed, as you have rightly indicated, the municipalities must be a fundamental part of social and economic reconstruction. Mr Rufián, I thank you for the tone and defense you have made on 8 March, of what it represents on 8 March, which is gender equality. I also thank you for the usefulness of the vote that you propose, with a constructive, pro-active abstention, in which we have been able to reach agreements that I believe are positive for Catalonia and for the whole country. I share with you the concern about Nissan's announcement of the closure of his plant, I am not going to say in Catalonia or Spain, but in Europe, because this is also one of the issues that we have brought to Nissan's leadership in Japan, which, after all, is an irrational decision, because they are not leaving Spain, they are leaving a large common market such as the European market. They maintain a plant in the United Kingdom, but the United Kingdom - I would like to recall - is a country that leaves the European Union and the single market and is therefore still to be defined as the trade relationship that we are going to have with that third country. Of course, what we are going to propose - and I am aware that it has already been done - is a call in the coming days of the Spanish Government with the Generalitat of Catalonia, with the parties concerned - the municipalities, the Free Zone, the workers - to find a solution, a future. I'm convinced we can do this. If we are united and all work together, I believe that we can give a horizon of solutions and opportunity to the more than 2500 workers affected by a decision - and, moreover, you know, Mr Rufián, because we have talked about it not only with you, but also with your representatives in the government - who have been masculinating for years as a result of the disinvestment, of the lack of modernization of the Nissan plant in Catalonia. In short, I believe that Spain is a competitive country for the automotive sector. We want to give him that support that he needs at this critical moment and, of course, I think we can talk and dialogue among all of us to find a solution that guarantees that industrial weight that Catalonia needs and that, of course, demands Spain; so we are going to work for it. I was wondering what we want, what country we want to be, what it came to say, what it left in the air, what we want from this government, what we want to be this government. I have said this: this is a government that wants to bet on dialogue, on agreement, on coexistence, on a sustainable country, on an inclusive country; in short, all those issues that I raised humbly in my investment debate, which we have logically had to put aside for the health emergency, but which, of course, we are going to pick up as soon as possible, if it can be in July better than better, because that will mean that we have successfully overcome the health emergency. As for Mrs Borrás, I regret her vote against because I also believe that she has no reason to be. Here you have come up, Mrs Borrás, on many occasions to reproach the Government of Spain for not recognizing as delegated authorities the highest representatives of the State in each of the territories, which are the autonomous presidents. That's what we're doing, and they also vote no? Again? It gives me that these are other issues, probably not so much questions of Spanish policy, but of Catalan policy for which you are voting against. In any case, I leave this question to you with all humility: do you not realize that the sooner we get out of this health emergency, the sooner the state of autonomy will return to normal functioning and the sooner we will be able to resume the dialogue table to resolve the crisis in Catalonia? What I want to say with this is that it is important for us to complete the de-escalation in an orderly manner, and in an orderly manner, that is what the Spanish Government is proposing, and that, indeed, in phase 3, it be the autonomous presidents who manage this last stage. Look, I'm surprised that whoever rules, the ruling party - I don't say in this case by Republican Left, but Junts per Catalunya -, votes not to a state of alarm that they know is necessary to control mobility between territories. It's like when I hear the PP say he doesn't want the state of alarm when we know that the main focus of infection we've had all over the country is Madrid! If we have received even the criticism of the spokesman of the BNG saying that they are already arriving in Madrid to Galicia! [[Rumors]] By the way, I will see, Mr Rego, whether that is happening or not, I will speak to the Minister of the Interior. In any case, man, if there are two political parties that have to be in favour of the state of alarm to restrict mobility, they are the parties that represent the governments that are in these two autonomys: in Madrid and Catalonia. And it turns out that Junts per Catalunya and the Popular Party, which rule in Catalonia and Madrid, do what they do is vote against the state of alarm and, therefore, bar free, because I do not understand, I do not understand. I understand the position of the PP because it is secular, that is, it doesn't matter, it can be called the president of the government Pedro Sánchez, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, Felipe González or those who come, because they will say that it is the fault of the Chavista social communist government that is governing Spain. Anyway, this is the level of the debate, don't be mistaken. The level of the debate is Venezuela, Delcy, the Socialcommunists, the constitutional dictatorship, so the Spanish right, ladies and gentlemen, has remained since the motion of censure and after having lost five elections in 2019, what will we do to it. [[Applauds]] This is an issue also raised by Mr Errejón, to which I thank him for voting in favour of each and every extension of the state of alarm, I thank him, Mr Errejón, because I believe it is proof of his commitment, as you indicated, not to the Government but to the citizens as a whole, to compatriots. But, look, it's curious how the decibels rise conservative opposition as the health emergency drops. [[Rumors]] The number of insults, disqualifications, provocations is increasing more and more and more as the health emergency diminishes. I believe that this is also something that the Spaniards will be positively appreciating by the contribution they make political parties such as theirs and negatively by political parties that even with 89 seats turn out to be useless to defend the general interest, save lives and also defend public health in our country. Even on the right side, ladies and gentlemen, they are irresponsibly questioning the number of dead who have been killed by COVID-19, when this government has also been absolutely transparent, transparent. I said this in my first speech: we have accepted as a protocol those criteria that the World Health Organization sets for us. I understand that the far right, which follows Trump, says: I do not believe in the World Health Organization, I do not believe in the multilateral system. Another thing is that the People's Party, which is supposed to be a party of government, follows the far right in that reflection. But let them question the data given by the People's Party governments to the Spanish government at an autonomous level. [[Applauds]] What I can guarantee is one thing, ladies and gentlemen - and I therefore thank Mr Errejón for his support -: without the state of alarm, today in Spain there would unfortunately be hundreds of thousands of people who had died as a result of COVID-19. And I do not understand a political party, I insist, that governs autonomous communities as affected as Madrid, even though they have not won, because they give lessons to win the elections, but above them they lose them in Madrid. What happens is that they govern with the support of the far right and, logically, with the alignment of the Citizens Party. I share with you that we have to make that recognition and that gratitude to health professionals and, of course, we will take it very much into account in that tribute that the Government of Spain is preparing to the victims of COVID and also to the professionals, to the heroes, in short, of COVID. There is no doubt in your mind, Your Honor, that this is a government that is absolutely committed to industry, to sustainability and also to the adaptation and mitigation of climate change. Mr. Baldoví, I'm sorry, but I can't understand. You say the Compromise door is open, but the government door has never been closed. I do not understand why; you tell the Government that you are not going to vote for the last and final extension because it is a government that has not given sufficient resources to the Valencian Community for, for example, health. But if we are designing a non-reimbursable fund where, for the first time, the State, in comparison with any other crisis, is indebted precisely to transfer economic resources to the autonomous communities, and of them more than 50% will be allocated to public health, to absorb all this enormous expenditure, a huge investment that the autonomous communities have made to solve the COVID-19: a billion that we put before, at the beginning of the pandemic, in the hands of the autonomous communities; the advances approved by the Ministry of Finance and which have reported more than €75 billion, an additional €75 billion to the autonomous communities. And you say it's not enough and that's why you're going to vote no? Honestly, Mr Baldoví, I do not understand it, but I respect you and I really regret that you have that position, because I think you do not agree with what your voters really think - and I no longer say the Valencians because you come here and speak on behalf of the Valencians, I too can speak on behalf of the Valencians because we are the first political force in the Valencian Community - I am convinced that neither do you share your voters that you, at a time like this, do not vote in favour of the state of alarm or at least abstain. Of course, I am not going to reproach you for voting with VOX or the People's Party because I did not accept it when it happened to me. Here it has been criticized, even by other parliamentary groups, that Citizens have reached an agreement with the Government because then it seems that we are right-wing - this image, which is false, is used by some - but it is not true, Your Honor. The government is trying to move its policies forward, talking to all the parliamentary groups, and I think that's what citizens want too, and if you vote not, I will never tell you that I am aligned either with VOX or the PP or anyone else; on the contrary, all I do is regret that I do not vote in favour of the state of alarm and I hope that this can be recomposed, not in future debates, because I hope that we will not have them again, but on other issues that will be of interest to your land and also to the whole country. Mr. Rego, I think I also answered in private when he came down from the rostrum. I'm going to find out exactly what these mobility flows you refer to from Madrid to Galicia. They have not shared this with me in this way, but it seems to me that it is important because we are talking about territories that are at different stages and, therefore, we must have the utmost caution. On Alcoa, I want to say that, logically, we have to claim responsibility for a company that has received EUR 38 million in exchange for maintaining jobs and that now offers us this absolutely unsatisfactory scenario. Of course, we expect the support of the Galician Xunta to find a solution that preserves employment. Mr. Bal, thank you for your support. Indeed, we are not partners. I feel that you do not like my Government at all, what we are going to do to it, but I hope you will teach other political parties another way of opposing, another way of proving useful, at least on central issues such as public health or saving lives. As you have rightly pointed out, the debate is about the only instrument that we can constitutionally have to curb the pandemic and which, moreover, has proved to be extraordinarily effective. And that dose of responsibility I recognize even more because you, as you have indicated, govern with the People's Party in territories that have either been affected in the first person by the pandemic or, in the second, have been affected as a result of the freedom of movement that occurred before the state of alarm in territories where you govern with the parliamentary support of VOX from outside. I also like to remember this because you were a political party that defended that you should govern the first political force and the first political force in Murcia, the first political force in Andalusia, the first political force in Castile and León and the first political force in Madrid - I would like to remind you, Mr Bal - is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] I say this because Mrs Ayuso sometimes says that the Government of Spain does not agree with the way of living of the people of Madrid. [[Rumors]] If that is their conclusion, it is quite striking when the majority of citizens in Madrid voted for progressive choices rather than conservative or reactionary choices, as represented by the People's Party or the far right. Mr Esteban, I thank you for the tone of the debate and I share with you that, indeed, the virus we have to combat is that of hatred. Unfortunately, we are not strangers either in these General Courts or in European and Western democracies to this hatred virus, in whose genesis, of course, there is a systematic non-acceptance of election results by some political parties, a non-assumption that power does not belong to them, but belongs to the whole of the citizenry - above all, it is represented in this House - which freely decides who governs them and legitimately. I believe that what we have to do is take on a lot of patience and a lot of temperance. The truth is, you listen to everything that has to be carried with a lot of temperance in order not to... yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, they say very hard things, eh?, very hard things, but, well, I think that citizenship wants, at least of parties like the one that you represent and like the one that I represent, other kind of tone, other kind of appeals, more unity, more harmony, tolerance, dialogue, and that's what I appreciate in your intervention. Anyway, you've talked about things I share, although I don't quite understand where the discord is, if I may. As a government, the state of alarm that we have adopted sets rules throughout the territory, but of course it is the autonomous presidents who will be able to pose and manage fully, with total capacity, the transition to the new normality. I see no contradiction there and, if there has been, I regret it because I do not see that there is. I remain with the questions you have raised with regard to foreign workers, with lifting the borders - we are talking with the French Government to see what solution we can give it - and, logically, also with the freedom of movement between autonomous communities in phase 3, although it is true that already in phase 3, the autonomous presidents will freely be able to raise the state of alarm. In any case, here is the Minister of Health and what the experts tell us is what we will do and we will take his approach into account. With regard to the parliamentary negotiation of that royal decree-law, of course we will have that dialogue. Our approach is to make it as basic as possible. Nor do we want to overregulate anything, but simply to maintain those issues that the health authorities have told us are necessary to contain the virus and its spread. Obviously, we have the task of economic and social recovery at European and State level. We'll meet there. I would also like to thank Mrs Aizpurua for her abstention. I would also like to thank you for talking about some of the successes that we have been able to have humbly from the Government. Of course, I think the main thing that you have not mentioned - if I may simply complement your intervention - is that we have been a government - believe me, ladies and gentlemen - that all the decisions we have made have been based and have had a scientific sustenance. I said it the other day in a public appearance. I didn't know Mr. Simon. He's not a person we named as a government. In fact, the CAES was also not created by a socialist administration, it was created precisely by a People's Party administration and it is true that it has suffered many cuts over the past few years. I didn't know Dr. Simon, I didn't know who he was. However, I have been discovered as a person committed to his country, an expert, a humble person, a person who not only does pedagogy in his appearances, but even humbly recognizes the limitations that science has right now to effectively address a pandemic of a virus that is unknown. I believe that public servants such as Dr. Simon and all the team behind them show that all the good things that this government has been able to do and the right decisions that we have been able to make have their origins, especially in its contribution and expertise. I want to publicly acknowledge it in this rostrum for the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] If a politician is criticized, well, he goes to the office, he is on the salary and, therefore, we have no right to complain, although perhaps we can criticize or underline the insults that they make us. But to argue against public servants and insult them in the way they are insulting them seems to me to demonstrate the opposition's lack of arguments to criticize many of the aspects we have experienced over the past few weeks. When you talk about what approach the Spanish Government has, if it rebuilds or transforms, I think that there are things that we have to rebuild - it is obvious - and there are others that we have to transform. That is why I believe that combining sustainable growth with inclusive growth is an aspect that I believe can respond well to your question. I will tell the CUP spokesman that I am not surprised by his intervention. Everything is always wrong, everything is always insufficient. In the face of a historic decision, such as the approval of minimum living income, instead of celebrating it, you do what you do is undervalue it because you say you don't know what about the bailouts to the financial sector. The question I always ask you, Your Honor, is who you are useful to. Have you ever been asked? Who are you really useful to? To people who are having a bad time and who have no income? The marginalized, the excluded to whom you refer when you go up to this rostrum? I believe that you are not useful to anyone, Your Honor; rather, yes, you are useful to the room revolutionaries. [[Applauds]] To those who want to change the world on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays, but the weekend live comfortably, which is what corresponds. Yeah, have fun with you guys, huh? That is a reflection that I would also like you to raise or consider, but our concept of politics is another, Your Honor, we like to touch real achievements with our fingers, we like to see a child at risk of poverty have mechanisms to get out of it, and that is a success of this Government. [[Applauds]] Mr. García Adanero, I think one of the biggest problems that UPN has - I don't know where Mr. García Adanero is, ah!, sorry - is that you have no personality or autonomy of your own, you don't have it, Your Honor. [[rumors]] They came to Congress promising their voters to defend Navarra's interests but their voice is that of the People's Party without any kind of nuance, without any. They have the same angry tics, even up to the gesture, Your Honor, that if it aggravates, that if terrorism, that if Bildu, that if he resigns from Marlaska. I believe that deep down you know that nothing you say has a real foundation, I really do. The Basque Country and Navarra are two autonomous communities that manage taxes from which funds will be allocated to cover the minimum living income, it has the full meaning that it falls on those Governments precisely that management. And speaking of ETA, Your Honor, shows that you have no argument to oppose the state of alarm and its extension. If they do, it will be for other considerations, not for the interest of the shipwrecks, but for some partisan interest that, in the end, you will have to explain and not me. I want to thank Mrs Oramas for the tone and logically for the support. It seems to me that you have raised some questions that are true, the particularity of the Canary Islands, also of the Balearic Islands, the warning that logically there are on many streets and many islands of the Canary Islands, on all the islands of the Canary Islands, but it is true that there is also a motivating fact that I would like to share with you, 4724 companies and self-employed people in the tourism sector have accepted the Thomas Cook financing line for a volume of almost 400 million euros, a line that is already exhausted, and I therefore call on you to put forward constructive measures, as you have done from this forum in relation to employment regulation dossiers, and among all of you to encourage that national tourism actually moves from the end of June and in July we can actually have the Canary Islands filled in this case of national tourism and to be able to do something international; for this the Government of Spain is working. Mr Quevedo shows that we share the recognition and uniqueness of the Canary Islands. It is a region, as you have indicated, ultraperipheral and its situation is of exceptional difficulty due to the impact of the health crisis on the productive fabric, highly dependent on tourism. Tourism is a fundamental sector for Spain, especially for the Canary Islands, this is a fact, and that is why the Government is already working on this plan to relaunch the tourism sector to which I have already referred, a response that like that of all public administrations has to be proportional, appropriate to the impact of the crisis on each territory and in each sector, and I know perfectly well that the impact on the Canary Islands has been very high. On the other hand, Your Honor, Mr Quevedo, the Government of Spain is sensitive to the uniqueness of the Canary Islands, as the Minister of Finance has on some other occasion expressed in Parliament. I recognize you publicly and once again that the Government of the Canary Islands, in which we are part of its party and mine, signed on 30 May last, the Day of the Canary Islands, with a broad political, social and economic consensus, the necessary impetus to achieve this pact for the social and economic revival of the Canary Islands. Obviously, the Spanish Government empathizes with him and will study and see how we can build these synergies. I thank Mr Mazón for his vote in favour and I would like to say that, in fact, the Spanish Government is by reasonable agreements and reasonable measures, no doubt. Mr Oblanca, I share with you the recognition of health professionals. I welcome you and celebrate your recovery. I cannot understand in any case that you, who have helped combat and even suffered from COVID, do not understand the need to have fifteen more days to be able to restrict mobility. I don't understand, Your Honor. Even when you refer to these health professionals, who, whenever they have occasion, appeal to individual responsibility and also to collective responsibility, because, in our opinion, humbly, it can only be guaranteed with an orderly exit through the state of alarm. Mr Guitarte, I thank you for the vote in favour. I would like to say that the approach we are taking, both at state level and at Community level, is to carry out this inclusive sustainable transformation, not only from a social but also territorial point of view. It is a huge challenge that we have with depopulation, which affects not only our country but also the major Western economies. It will take a lot of time and probably a big state agreement, and of course the Spanish Government will work for it at state and community level. I thank Mrs Lastra for her claim to politics. I also join in the recognition he has given to former Minister Carcedo, with whom we have shared many years of work and which was, in fact, the one who spoke to me for the first time, five or six years ago, about minimum living income. It is something that I want to include also in the Journal of Sessions for my part. [[Applauds]] I finish, ladies and gentlemen, remembering the obvious. Today we are here to discuss and approve the sixth and final extension of the alarm state with the support of this House. It calls for a health emergency, but also an economic and social one, which has made us work with all our efforts to save lives and protect our country. That's what we're for, ladies and gentlemen, for nothing more. This epidemic has revealed many things that seemed obvious to us, but which turn out to be extraordinary, some for harm. He has revealed, for example, the errors of our system and those of the rest of the world. We must correct those mistakes urgently and globally, and I call on the House to do so. Also that the public is the containment dam in the face of any threat. He previously referred to this recognition of health professionals, who are the first trench. If any lesson has to be learned from this crisis, it is that the public is the containment dam in the face of any threat. It has also revealed how vulnerable human beings can be if we are not prepared and that a part of this country also deserves to live with dignity and decency. It has also revealed this pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, that selfishness endangers collective rights, that there are limits that should not be exceeded when, protecting the privileges of a minority, it attacks the life and freedom of the majority. This pandemic has demonstrated all that is worth living and all that a public servant must defend and protect with all his strength and conviction. And it has also revealed something important, ladies and gentlemen, that we have seen again from this rostrum and that I invite those who have exercised it to abandon that praxis, and it is how useless and harmful it is for a country that some public representatives settle in insult, in provocation, instead of designing proposals, to participate in the useful and peaceful policy, to ultimately build the country. Ladies and gentlemen, all these weeks we have worked against time to beat the virus. I said that in my first appearance from this rostrum when I asked you to welcome the state of alarm. We needed time to beat the virus, to save lives, so that the economic and social cost was as low as possible, being enormous, as we are seeing. That is why I have appeared in this House to request six times the extension of the state of alarm. I was asking for time to buy you time, so that this moment, this moment that we are debating right now, this moment that is going to materialize in a vote, would arrive as soon as possible but in a safe way. This time has transformed our way of living, our way of protecting ourselves, our way of working and of relating - we are seeing it on the street every day -. This time has changed our cities, our peoples, mobility, politics. This time has shown us how powerful a united, supportive country can be, the greatness of our public servants. This time has also revealed to us that if we want to be the reflection of the citizenry, of those who trusted us with their vote, we must be useful, promoting public policies that protect us more, that extend our rights, promoting security, restoring the confidence that our economic activity needs. Politicians have the duty and the demand to take advantage of this time by opening a new cycle, a peaceful and true moment of politics at the service of Spain. We have lost, ladies and gentlemen, many years, a long time, in political convulsion, in insult, in fallacy, in the theatricalization of public service, and that is enough, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group said, that is enough! We are already seeing the economic and social impact of this health crisis and millions of people in our country do not have time to lose, families, self-employed, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, young people, women, long-term unemployed, in short, the generations that are and are going to come; it depends on us that the economic impact of this crisis lasts as little as possible. So let's give our country oxygen. Let us give oxygen to our country, trust to the workers, safety to the self-employed and to the entrepreneurs, certainty to the women who are bearing the great burden of this country and of this crisis in their homes. Our country needs us to act urgently, responsibly and on time. Let us show that the diversity of this House, which is the one that the Spanish have legitimately voted every time they have been called to the polls, is an opportunity for a country that feels represented by so many political colors that are here today. This is the moment, ladies and gentlemen, let us return the lost time to Spain. Let's give the Spaniards back the useful time they deserve. We have ahead of us a plan of economic social reconstruction, of recovery, if you want to call it that, to finish defining. In short, we have a legislature ahead of us to show that, from diversity and difference, we know that we can represent the Spaniards as they want to see us: from unity, together. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common, and from the members of the Government, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, Mr Otegi, Mr Torra, Mr Junqueras, Mr Iglesias, the same goes for it, on 8 March the Minister of Equality linked him to the infections caused by COVID-19, but not only her, but a judge who blamed the deputy delegate of the government, and also the Fedea association, who said that if I had listened to the Autonomous Communities of the People's Party, and myself, three weeks earlier, 62% of the infections would have been avoided. You have the accused delegate, the chipper minister and your government depending on a wire. Say 'Live on March 8th!' It's the rabies scream of a sound boxer, or the jack of a knockout team. Because the World Health Organization, on 30 January, said that there was already a serious international alert; on 11 February, a very serious threat; on 28 February, a very high threat, and the rest did not know, you knew, that they are the ones empowered by law to receive international alerts. His Government, on 4 March, said that cabbage should not be closed because it increased the infection; it was still closed. On April 6th, you didn't have to wear the masks; you allowed all the shows, you. Being a feminist is not putting the lives of hundreds of thousands of women at risk. Lessons from feminism, none, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, on figures of the dead, you say that we use the dead, when we were being crushed by the sacrifice of a dog is simply pathetic. But, above all, why don't you answer and tell us why they're hiding the numbers? Because the figures I do not invent, come from three ministries of his Government: the Ministry of Science, on which depends The Carlos III Institute of Health, 43,034 victims; the Ministry of Social Security, which has recognized 41,829 pensioners less, what a statistical macabre!; and from the Ministry of Economy, today, by the INE, that there are 43,945 dead more than last year, and that which I have already told you there are no accidents at work and traffic due to the brutal confinement. So, what are you playing at? Like the totalitarians who erased their enemies from the photos, you erase the deceased so you can come here to say that there have been zero deaths this week? I already thought about it yesterday: How strange, the autonomous communities send figures of the deceased and the government without taking much breasts says that there are none! Why? Because the great thymoral Sanchez had to come here to take out his chest and pull out a headline on the dead, which is immoral, Mr. Sanchez, immoral. [[Applauds]] Therefore, explain here and now why it says that there are 28 000 dead in Spain when their own ministries almost duplicate this statistic, at least up to 43 000. If in the United States, Brazil and the United Kingdom the blame of the deceased is on the right, is Spain also on the right? Of course, you do everything right, but you have not been able to do things worse, says the entire international press - I said it here the other day - and above all your own press conferences say it: changing the methodology of the count, on March 15, April 17, May 25 and May 29. The New York Times didn't give credit the other day. And now it comes with the intelligent descalation, which is already an arcane. The intelligent descalade are the children in the super and in the pharmacy, are the arks of Noah - he has not said anything again - are the fringes in which one could go out, that is, without masks so that everyone would be well appelotetonized by contagious if possible? Mr Sánchez, Mr Otegi, do not speak of judicial independence, if you went to a radio station to say that the Prosecutor's Office depended on you!, if you have been written today four judicial associations, even the most progressive, to say that Minister Marlaska's is a court of custody!, never better said. [[Applauds]] That this is not the right, that this is the associations of judges. Are you talking about corruption, the gentleman who was paid for primary school by some of the people who were then investigated by the EREs, the gentleman who has three ministers of the Governing Council of Chaves and Griñán? Why don't you say that this measuring rod for censorship motions applies to you yourself, as we've been asking you for two years? And you're talking about respect for the Civil Guard, the general secretary of the director general's party who was stealing from the Civil Guard orphans to set up games? [[Applauds]] But how do you have that defachability? And he's talking about equal pay, which we've approved! You have ceased and purged untold public servants. Your minister has lied in parliamentary office and that is why you had to assume responsibilities. In the United States two presidents were impeached for lying in parliament and in public, and you come up here to squeeze it. Why doesn't he explain that change of opinion and why he doesn't say what everyone's already saying to him in editorials, that a country that admits that its government is lying with impunity is a country that degrades its democracy? But, in addition, you have been able, and your Government, to commit several crimes, as I told you this morning, because you are ceasing someone because you refused to comply with the law and because you have even been able to obstruct justice. And now he's trying to cover up the scandals with his ministers, just like he was trying to cover up his drapes with curtains at Ferraz's headquarters. [[Applauds]] But don't worry, because you catch a liar sooner than a fucker, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, Mr Torra, it is curious that on the second anniversary of a motion of censure come here to say that we are harassing the government; pure cynicism. Now they also intend to censor the opposition's work? And how do they intend to maintain that there have been no limited freedoms in the state of alarm, that of assembly, that of demonstration, that of circulation, censorship in networks, censorship in the media, the Prosecutor's Office, justice? No one has ever assaulted public rights and freedoms so much in such a short time. I told you the other day, you believe Napoleon and look who he leans on to rule with 120 seats. Therefore, Mr Sánchez, remember what you were saying about them, stop lying about what you set up your partners just a few months ago and don't teach us others. I'm done, Madam President. He also said that the People's Party was to blame that you will deal with Podemos. Of course, and now we are to blame for the pact with Bildu on the repeal of labour reform? You treat Bildu well, don't you? Not those we have victims of those they defend in our ranks, including yours. [[Applauds]] They attacked the headquarters of the PSE-EE in San Sebastian again last night, and the same day they attacked their secretary-general you did not defend her. He is not able to defend Esquerra's spittings to his foreign minister; he is not able to defend the question of red paint at the seat of his party or at the home of his secretary general. That's the price for the power you want to pay. Are we also guilty today of the Republican Left pact for the self-determination table? Listen to what Mr. Rufián has said, "Tell me who you're talking to, and I'll tell you what you're talking about." You don't have to tell us what you're doing. But in this social and economic pandemic the virus is its policies. I ended up celebrating that today the Princess of Asturias of Concordia has failed in favor of the health care workers. Do you remember Julián Marías when he said that harmony is the ground on which agreements and disagreements rest? Because concordia is to support you - and look how difficult it is - for a month in these extensions of the state of alarm, but concordia is also to oppose the outbursts against the public freedoms that you are doing. Concordia is not just a word, concordia must be accompanied by facts and companies and, Mr Sánchez, Mr Otegi, Mr Torra, Mr Junqueras and Mr Iglesias, you cannot speak of concordia because you agree with the defenders of the ages, those of Bildu, with the independenceists supremacists who blow up our cars and our homes and throw dung in the courts, because you agree with the ultra-left, which denies the best result of the concordia, which is the transition and the Constitution. Mr Sánchez, you are pure discord; stop lying and stop hurting Spain already. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u64	Mr. Sanchez, I'm going to tell you low enough to see if that's how you thank me for the tone too. [[Laughter]] For many days I have come to this plenary session and I have alternately addressed you and Mr. Iglesias not as a parliamentary technique, which must be what Mr. Redondo has said, but as a finding of a reality. You seem to be ashamed, you are part of a government, you are the president and he is the vice president. Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, Mr Abascal, Mr Casado, I still do not have a pact with Mr Casado, no, no, I do not have a pact with Mr Casado; Mr Otegi, Mr Sánchez, Mr Sánchez, Mr Otegi, Mrs Aizpurua, Mr Sánchez, Mr Sánchez, Mrs Aizpurua, to whom you thank the tone permanently. [[rumors]] What's the point of the alarm? Why do you need another extension if you say there have been zero deaths today? Although they have lied to us because they already say in the autonomous communities that there have been thirty-four. When there are few infections and zero deaths, why do you need the state of alarm except to sink more into the Spanish production system, to sink more into Spain than early morning, or to further curtail our freedoms? Can you really explain what it's for? By the way, he says that we are questioning his figures, no, we are not questioning them, they are being questioned by the funeral homeowners, who say there are 44,000 dead; they are being questioned by the National Statistical Institute, which says there are 48,000 dead; they are being questioned by the Autonomous Communities, which have just told you that you have lied about the dead today, and have even questioned them by the higher courts of justice of the Autonomous Communities. [[Applauds]] He has come here today - and this is what has impressed me most of what he has done - to boast of the stricter confinement that has occurred throughout the Western world and has overlooked that we are the ones who are at the head of the number of deaths per inhabitant, and if they are also encrypted, they are real, nor do I say to him! To the head and stand out. Then what has failed with the strictest confinement and the head in number of deaths per inhabitant? For the government has failed, you have failed and you have failed what you did on the 8-M, turning into victims a lot of women who went to defend their ideas and to those who hid information, and turning into victims all the people who attended many public, political and sporting events during that weekend. That's what's failed. A government that called during the week prior to 8-M, through various police officers - yes, yes, they are already investigating it by the courts - to persons who had called public events and demonstrations after 8 March for voluntary devotion. [[rumors]] Yeah. Who gave the order to do that? He won't tell us here, but they'll have to explain it in court. Mr Sánchez, Mr Otegi, Mr Otegi, Mr Sánchez, you do not agree on anything, except to demolish Spain and freedoms in some way. One after another, representatives who support the government have come up to this rostrum: Bolivarian communism in different versions, coup separatism, terrorism, good men of the PNV in a spectacular tone - they will reach holiness - to ask you to join in the dissolution of Spain. Even Bildu came out to tell him he's going in the right direction. In the right direction for ETA, not for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] By the way, if you, Mr Sánchez, are going to pay a thousand euros to all those who come on foot and believe or report having been victims of trafficking in human beings, how is there not going to be an effect called? Or is it that you are only following the orders given to you by that individual with whom you had the first appointment at the Palace of Moncloa, Mr. Soros? Why are you laughing? Is it true or not? But is it true or not? Did you have that meeting, was it the first meeting you had in the Moncloa, or am I inventing it in the rostrum? [[Laughter]] [[The President of the Government: It is another reality; it is another reality]] Then you can answer me. If I just answered this, I'd be worth it. The Communist spokesman has also come to fill the rostrum with false lies and truncheons. I'd have to use all the time to answer you and your lies. It is a Leninist technique and I am not going to waste a minute, but it is true that the President of the Government has also learned a great deal from that technique in recent months. He has accused us of breaking the collective official mourning. But what do you say? Have you, who have broken the real mourning of Spanish society, that we had to wait for the president to come with black tie two weeks ago and the leader of his party with black shirt, when you had been on your back to the real mourning of Spanish society for three months? But what do you tell us? [[Applauds]] And he has come here to attack the judges and the Civil Guard, speaking of the judicial arm of the right, by the way, to the alimon with the President of the Government, who at the time of speaking of Colonel De los Cobos has practically spoken of a police mafia that is dismantling Mr Marlaska. I thought it was awfully bad what you said. It's gonna be explained little by little. By the way, what do you want, that the tariffs that the United States puts on Spanish products continue to increase? Because he has come here to sympathize with the violent demonstrations and looting that are taking place in the United States. Do you know what the motto is encouraging some of those mobilizations, some of them peaceful as well? 'I can't breathe', which is what that man said when he was killed by a cop; by the way, to whom we want a life sentence, which is what we want the killers. [[Applauds]] 'I can't breathe.' I cannot breathe is what many Spaniards who have been denied breathers and ICUs because they were older, 41% of the dead came from the geriatrics. That could also be the motto of mobilizations in Spain. You too must pay for your negligence, Mr. Sanchez. I'm done. We will not allow the impunity you seek, we will go to the courts, because we trust the rule of law and judicial independence. We're not going to sit in our homes, we're going to encourage mobilizations and we're going to fly our flag, the one you've thrown on the floor and the one you've trampled on your partners, and we're not going to shut up about your collaboration with communist drug addicts, with the billionaire progress and with ETA. Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Otegi. Mr. Otegi, Mr. Sánchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u65	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u66	President, I would like to begin by thanking all the Members who are going to support this extension of the state of alarm, especially those who have used a constructive tone, a constructive criticism; Mr Errejón, for example, or Mrs Aizpurua. Thank you, Mertxe, for pointing out the positive things of this Government and not just the negative ones. I believe that the best we can do for this country is to push together, with the critical and demanding support of all the progressive forces that make up it. Also thanks to Mr. Rufián. I share what you said in your speech and also the concern about the dangers of bunkering in which your government partners have fallen. I think we need to learn the lesson of what happened in Badalona. Badalona teaches us on the way. That's where we couldn't get along and what happened happened. The only beneficiaries we can't agree on are the right-wing ladies and gentlemen. That's why Mr. Torra - who defends the worst, the best - sometimes doesn't care, but we know that, the worst, the most suffering are the popular classes. That is why, Mr. Rufián, it is time to close the fist united to the threats of the raised hands that we saw in the caravans of freedom of VOX, which were, in fact, the caravans of hatred. Mr Rufián - who is not listening to me now - I think we have to work to seal today's pact in some budgets tomorrow; we have to work for some social budgets, or others will do it for us. Mr. Married, today you had a chance in the replica to demarcate from your spokesman. I threw you a glove that you rejected. I think he has missed the opportunity; he has decided not to, even though I am convinced that many people in his party do not subscribe to those words. I think that's why there's VOX, your split. I don't understand why you don't want to break ties to your past. I already know that your party founded it seven Francoist ministers and that you said before that of the dictatorship was a model of placidity and that for that reason you did not condemn it, but I believe that, at this point, whitewashing the dictatorship does not represent the majority of its voters, certainly, and not the majority of its militants. By the way, since they have talked about the FRAP, if they had been skipping a little they would have discovered that Rafael Blasco, who, as you know, is a high leader of the People's Party who was convicted not long ago for corruption, for diverting funds that went to the Third World. How miserable it is to divert funds that go to the Third World! So I am sorry to inform you that, in their logic, they no longer only share a party with defrauders, thieves or corrupts declared by the courts, but also with terrorists. I mean, congratulations on your fellow travelers, those dangerous companies. Mr. Married, hearing you give lessons on separation of powers is a joke of bad taste. I will not repeat all the retaliatory attacks you have launched in the past on the separation of powers, but I would like to recall that you had a minister and two prosecutors-general reprobated for trying to obstruct the action of justice to cover up corruption. It is not that you tried to intervene in police action, it is that you created a parallel para-police structure to pursue political opponents that cost them again the reprobation of their interior minister, Jorge Fernández Díaz, who said that abortion had something to do with ETA. Always ETA How many years do you have to go without attacks to stop using ETA wildcard? That was the minister to whom an angel appeared; Gabriel, it seems to me that his angel was called. The truth is, it is very hypocritical on your part that it is now presented as adalid of the separation of powers. Mr Abascal - and I would also extend it to Mr García Adanero - it is true that he has lowered the tone in his speech, and I thank him, but I feel that he always speaks with that anger. I think that's inquisitive in their soul and it doesn't have to be good and they would have to try to heal it because I think it hurts them personally. Fernando Simón made it clear, with the data in his hand - because you are already more of the superchery and conspiracy theories - that the manifestation of the 8-M had not influenced anything more or less than his act of Vistalegre of the same day. What bothers you about Irene Montero is that she is a young woman who is prepared, committed and working-class. But, look, if anything bothers you more than Irene Montero is what she represents: the voice of millions of women of all generations who have brought a real democratic revolution to this country. You don't mind Irene Montero; you mind that, feminism. [[Applauds]] Let me finish, because today you have paid a great tribute to Mr Pérez de los Cobos, you have filled your interventions with falsehoods and bubbles...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u67	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u68	Yes, I'm done, President. What we think is serious is not that the colonel has ceased, but that he would not have ceased before, for example, when he led the operation of October 1 in Catalonia, with almost a thousand wounded and more than 120 agents under his orders investigated by excesses that will have to come to trial one day of these. So that's what we think is serious. And it is also grave, of course, that a judge should give a good report based on newspaper clippings, false data and arguments from Mortadelo and Philemon. We're really worried about that. I believe that they show that there is an urgent need for a democratic regeneration of our judiciary, with a nineteenth-century and hegemonized access by conservative sectors and with a judicial dome that has the expired mandate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u70	Thank you very much, President. I'm going to start by asking for applause; a applause for Dona Conchi García, Dona Catalina Guille, Dona Pilar Gil and for all the workers who for thirteen weeks have given the callo as much as we have. A round of applause for them, for the workers of this House. [[Applauds]] I'm not going to do a lot of word games, Mr. Married, Mr. Abascal. I'm going to call you Mr. Aznar 1 and Mr. Aznar 2 Mr. Aznar 1, you say that the fault of the pandemic - it's been half of the planet six months trying to find the origin, the culprits, why not say it, of this pandemic and there are a thousand speculations, but you already know it - it's Irene Montero, it's Fernando Simón's fault, it's Gladys' fault, the vice president of Venezuela. [[pointing to Mr. Casado Blanco]] [[pointing to Mr. Abascal Conde]] I'm just going to tell you something, and I'm serious: every time I talk about Oriol Junqueras do it with respect, more than anything because, regardless of whether he likes his ideology, in the end he is a teacher with a huge experience, with a huge background and, above all, all his master's degrees are true. Mr Aznar 2, Mr Abascal: 'Spain at dawn'. I understand that from a convertible. For the only thing that serves its manifestations is to know the latest Mercedes or BMW model that is on the market. I liked it, it sounded good to report police abuse, police murder in the United States. I wish I could do that with fascist torturers like Billy the Child. Mr Asens, we have to learn from Badalona, yes, it is true, and from Barcelona: Manuel Valls. There was an alternative called Ernest Maragall. As much as I say no, they're lentils. Mrs Borràs, it's very bad for me, Laura, that you have described my speech as offensive and unnecessary for speaking of Pujol! Speaking of Pujol! If you're not Convergence, you don't have to be pissed off about Pujol. It's as if from Citizens they get mad because I'm talking about UPyD or VOX from PP. It doesn't make any sense, especially because unity is right and we don't fight. There is no need to fight, and if I speak of Pujol the speech cannot be offensive or unnecessary for you. Above all, because you said on 19 May: we will not vote for an extension that does not restore the government's competence. And today you say: let us not abstain in exchange for returning the powers to the Government. And above all, you decalify the vote of Republican Left because there is also Citizens in it. It is as if I said, with a low intellectual level, that your vote is not worth because it is the same as VOX. It doesn't make sense. Unity, unity! Let's not fight. Mr. Bal, you say we don't like equality, that I'm against equality. Holder of a year ago: PP and Citizens agree to eliminate the universality of public health in Madrid for irregular immigrants. And I'm the one who doesn't like equality? They like it more or they like it less and no matter how loud they do, they are voting for an agreement that includes a dialogue and negotiation table. And it's okay, because it's political. They cannot call a table of shame a space of dialogue, politics and negotiation, because, as I always say, what is the alternative?, what is it? [[Rumors]] Mr President, we welcome the ratification of the table that you have made clearly and once again - I think this is the fourth time - as much as it is said no. I wish it was in July, if that's all right. I do ask you to be able to work to resolve the situation of the Nissan workers. I end with a memory and a hug to my colleagues in the Valencià Country, in the Republican Esquerra of the Valencià Country, who are very fond of it under very complicated circumstances and who, thanks to this agreement, also the Valencià Country has European powers and reconstruction funds. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u71	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u72	A preview, Mr. Asens. In Badalona we agreed. If Badalona is the way, let's not use bunkering language and talk about dialogue, but to be able to dialogue you have to sit down and talk. I wanted to talk about language because, Mr. Sánchez, truth, today I discovered that you also have priestly gifts. Did you say let's not say the name of Spain in vain? Really? Have you spoken of languages and appropriated the concept of languages when we cannot even use them here? These languages of Spain cannot be used in the place where the speakers of those languages are represented. Have you considered going to offer your services to the RAE? Because with the ease you have to distort the concepts, expanding or modifying the meaning of the words... Co-governance: For starters, I already told him it wasn't in the dictionary. Propose it, just as they incorporate it, as they say very often, just as it ends up entering the dictionary. Competent delegated authority: you have used the word oximoron, as you already know what an oximoron is. Repeat until satiety: the autonomous communities have never been devoid of their competences. But then - Mr Esteban has pointed out - he talks about returning competences. What are we left with? Are they taken away or are they not taken away? Because if they're not taken away, they can't come back. Language makes it fail and says: we will return the skills. Samuel Johnson said language is the dress of thought. You have an extraordinary wardrobe bottom, Mr. Sanchez. He used the word satisfied. Considering that they are at the top of the terrible ranking of the dead, I don't know if the word satisfied is the most suitable. It has given the figure that today there has been no deceased; well, as I believe Catalonia does not consider it a part of Spain, I do not know. Health detected ninety-three deaths in one week and the Ministry of Health thirty-four throughout the State. Will you explain it to me? Because the numbers don't come out. He also said that Spain is the best country in the world, well, he said, great. I do not want to imagine if I had said so, because the word supremacist would already be planning for the Chamber. Madame de Sévigné said there are words that go up like smoke and there are others that fall like rain. Well, speaking of smoke, let's go to the pacts. Have you talked about a new royal decree-law on co-management? Are you going to agree with the presidents of the autonomous communities? Are you going to agree with the opposition? I don't know, the pact said it would have to be decided by the autonomous communities, but now, if it turns out to be decided through a real decree-law, I don't know if it's the new 55 of co-management, I don't know, you'll tell us. But, come on, let us not be mistaken, Mr Sánchez, that we have not been against the state of alarm, if we decree the confinement of Igualada before it had been of alarm in Spain! We have been against this 'his' state of alarm, and we have told him why, and also, we have given the legal basis to be able to change that state of alarm and have not by default ignored them in form. I hope that when we present them again they will admit them to us or they will not admit them by going to the contents, not to the forms. This new extension of the state of alarm is regrettable, we now think it is absolutely unnecessary, it is no longer necessary to say that the ERTEs depend on the state of alarm because then you yourselves deny yourself. It is a pity that this extension did not provide answers to the real needs of workers, self-employed people and SMEs. The minister accused me of lying when I told her that there were many affected who were still unpaid. Fifteen days later these workers still do not charge these ERTE and what solution do they give them? More than two-and-a-half months has taken many uncollected people. We told them a number of very clear points, the principle and the summarizing everything: return of competences. But also the pension for workers who have dependants, older persons or dependent children, who cannot be reinstated because they still have work and have this burden; real tax measures on large state taxes to link them to the recovery of activity; that the money they promise really comes, that it is a reality, that it is not a permanent announcement; that the indebtedness of the administrations is allowed and that the local administrations can use the remnants and that the expenditure rule is changed. You cannot continue to apologize permanently in the Montoro laws, because two years have passed, now you rule and now you are already the Montero laws. That is, listen to us a little more and move from words to deeds. I once told Vice President Calvo that she was a language lender. I see that, too, has been glued to President Sánchez. I insist, go to the RAE to see if it gets them, at least, to believe in their co-governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think you have a cure. When I hear you in the replicas talking about what has been the worst minister of the interior of history, whether it has been the PSOE or the PP, or if we are more or less feminists for shouting from here: live the 8-M... Look: live the freedom of women, live the equality of women. Or like when they argue about Badalona. I don't know, they make me want to tell them that out there on the street there's an epidemic, I don't know if they know, and 48 000 dead. However, in the replicas we dedicate ourselves to messing with each other and saying that some do it better and others do it worse. Look, Mr Sánchez, if today were your investiture, my party would speak with all the groups in the House today so that they would vote no. Today we would call, as we did at the time, socialist barons to convince them that it was not good for Spain to agree with Bildu, to agree with Esquerra, to agree with the PNV or to make a coalition government with Podemos. Today we would ask any courageous socialist, as we did on that occasion, to even break the party discipline, because it seems to us that this government is bad for Spain. Mr. Rufián, you're the only one I'm going to answer because you already know I have respect for you, just like you do for me. He tells me about the table of shame and asks what is the alternative. Mr Rufián, you have it before you: it is called the Congress of Deputies, it is this House where we have to talk and the Parliament of Catalonia also as an institution democratically elected by Catalans and Catalans, because I do not know if you know - you forget - that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, from which the powers of the State emanate, and through a democratic system and of majorities the future of all Spaniards is decided. I stress once again that in this crisis we must continue to ask the Government to listen to us, we must continue to demand sensible, moderate, pragmatic, non-sectarian solutions that help the Spaniards. I am going to ask you for things and I say to you that please inform us of the content of that royal decree-law which you are going to take to the Council of Ministers and that we will not be aware of by the Official Gazette of the State; that you will indeed speak - we think very well - with the Autonomous Communities on health measures, that you will be able to coordinate between the Autonomous Communities in the exercise of their exclusive powers of health in order to be prevented from facing a possible, future and unfortunate pandemic; that your parliamentary group will support us in enabling July precisely so that the monitoring sessions will continue to exist; that it will untie the help of the Autonomous Communities from the state of alarm, because on June 21, when the state of alarm is over, the autonomous will continue to be in need of help and, therefore, think that we need to disconnect the aid and the extraordinary provision of the state of alarm if we want to have hope. Be ambitious with the tourism plan, end once and for all with that of the quarantine of those who have to come from outside, which gives very bad image of Spain. You say you are negotiating with countries in our environment that feed us tourists. Insist on this, get these tourists to come to Spain. Do not indulge in the privileges that are demanded of you against the principle of equality of all Spaniards who want to break Spain, who want Spain to go wrong. It does not yield to the blackmails of its disloyal partners in government. Don't repeal the labor reform, listen to your vice president Calviño. Talk to parliamentary groups to create a new modern working framework for the twenty-first century. Talk also with us about the minimum living income, that it is effective, that it reaches those who need it, that it is coordinated with the autonomous communities, that it is equal for all Spain and without privileges and that it is destined for employment. Think of extending the ERTE beyond June 30th, Mrs Oramas has claimed it. By the fact that you snap your fingers, the economy is not going to get started and it is going to be very necessary for these ERTE to extend in time beyond this date. It also incorporates mutualists into self-help, as citizens have done in the governments with the People's Party in the autonomous communities. And, of course, let us go hand in hand in Europe and not with its governing partner, who votes in Europe with the most radical. We have already reached agreements with the Socialist Party in the municipalities of Castilla-La Mancha; today we sign the reconstruction plan of Castilla-La Mancha, where García-Page puts on the table a billion euros, which is good. We have signed that reconstruction plan in Aragon as well. We have taken forward the budgets of the City of Granada after five years of reaching that consensus. This gives hope to the Spaniards in the face of fear. This is a new policy, this is a useful policy. Out there, on the street, people don't call themselves terrorists, they don't call themselves coup, they don't call themselves fascists, they don't appeal to noble titles. He wondered when he could take his children to school; they spoke of the evil that had happened in the confinement; they spoke of the pain for the loss of loved ones, of the anguish for the people who fought for their life; they were afraid and they spoke of whether they would be able to earn the sustenance with which to feed their families. Get out of the official car, please, and listen to these people because they deserve it. You're your president of the government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u76	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. This was said in my speech, Mr Casado, by the pandemic, but you are climbing into political tension and extremism, and your intervention, your reply, as you can see. What I wonder is whether this is what they are going to say in the next four years, whether this is what awaits us throughout the whole parliamentary term, whether the proposal of the People's Group is going to be the permanent sham. Leading the opposition does not mean opposing everything, Mr Casado, but presenting alternative proposals, something you have not done. His only proposal has been systematically since the very day of the investiture to oppose anything the Government says. So much has been your effort to oppose - this was also remembered fifteen days ago - that you have come to oppose what you yourselves were defending. They protested because they wanted tougher measures and then because the measures were tough. They protested because there was not enough alarm and then because there was alarm. The problem, Mr Casado and Members of the Group of the European People's Party, is that the policy of not everything does not help either the health care workers or the fight against the virus or public health or improve the situation of residences. It helps us nothing against the pandemic or the social and economic crisis that is already coming from the health crisis. What I really believe, Mr Casado, is that your no at all is a declaration of impotence and lack of ideas from your parliamentary group and your political party. In conclusion - I have said this in my speech and the President of the Government has repeated this - I think it is already well, Mr Casado. We are a people of sensible people. Let us cry in peace to our dead, let us applaud our health workers, who deserve everything, let us rejoice because we are finally doubling the pandemic, because we are overcoming this and we are doing it together, and, above all, Mr Casado, stop sowing resentment and putting sticks on the wheels, which this country already has enough. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor on behalf of the Government to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll answer from the seat. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups that, with their abstention or with their affirmative vote, will allow us to extend the state of alarm for another 15 days. The state of alarm - Article 116 of our Constitution -, the only instrument that the Spanish Government has to be able to deal with the pandemic, to definitively reverse it and to get out of the health emergency, which began on 14 March with the first approval of the state of alarm, and to do so, ladies and gentlemen, recognizing, without a doubt, the contribution of this House to the debate and to a learning process in which we have all been, not only the Courts General, not only the autonomous governments, but also the Government of Spain, in terms of the definition, scope and need to consider fundamental rights to tackle the pandemic, save lives and defend public health, which has - I insist - been the only objective that the Spanish Government has had during these almost three months. I would also like to extend the gratitude of the Government of Spain to all the public servants, from the health professionals, to whom other speakers have referred, to the workers in this House, who have made possible the holding of the relevant sessions, and to all the workers who have sustained the productive fabric over these intense and dramatic months that we have all lived in the first person. And I want to tell you something that seems very important to me. I believe that there are now two messages that we need to transfer, one to the citizenry and the other internally, to this House and to ourselves as political representatives, either in the autonomous governments, in the local governments, in the Government of Spain or in the parliamentary groups: first, individual responsibility, because it is clear that the virus has not disappeared. We have contained the pandemic, but the virus continues to haunt us. We haven't found the vaccine. We haven't found the therapeutic remedy. Therefore, all the measures that have to do with social discipline and with respect for what the health authorities tell us are very important that we comply with them individually, and with that appeal I would like to address myself, above all, to the citizens. Much of what we have achieved so far has been with a huge sacrifice that as a society we have paid, with more than 27,000 dead in recent weeks. That is why I think it is very important that, when the state of alarm is lifted, we are aware that these rules are fundamental if we do not want to see future rebounds or relapses that not only slow the health recovery, but also the economic and social recovery to which we have to devote ourselves from now on. And secondly, collective responsibility. I would like to make an appeal for collective responsibility. From the discrepancy, I want to make a demand for good policy, for unity policy and for the pact between different people. Of course, we must be aware that the task ahead of us during the next parliamentary term will not only be to rebuild many of the elements damaged not only by the pandemic, but also by the previous economic crisis and some - in our view, mistaken - policies that have started, but also and especially to look to the future and offer a future and hope horizon to the citizens, especially the younger ones, who are suffering first-hand the consequences of unemployment, inequality and, for example, the closure of educational centres that we have had to implement to curb the COVID-19. We are all called to that task of collective responsibility and, of course, the Government of Spain, humbly, will do everything possible to ensure that this unity we appeal to is possible in the Parliamentary Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction and also for the next four years in many of the measures we need to ensure sustainable growth and inclusive growth. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. Acts in relation to the states of alarm, exception and site. Request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decrees 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April, 514/2020 of 8 May and 537/2020 of 22 May. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm under the terms of the agreement on its admission to procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 93 plus 256 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 25 plus 65 telematics votes, 90; against, 67 plus 191 telematics votes, 258; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u80	The proposals are rejected. Vote on the proposal submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 93 plus 256 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 26 plus 74 telematics votes, 100; against, 66 plus 180 telematics votes, 246; abstentions, 1 plus 2 telematics votes, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u81	The proposal was rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm under the terms of the agreement on its admission to procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 93 plus 256 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 5 plus 18 telematics votes, 23; against, 85 plus 229 telematics votes, 314; abstentions, 3 plus 9 telematics votes, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u82	The proposals are rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 4:15 p.m. to 5:45 p.m. the authorization of the extension of the state of alarm, which will be put to the vote in its own terms, can be voted on by telematic means. The vote on this item will take place at the end of today's sitting. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u83	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as addressed by the spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exchange the order of debate of the interpellations relating to points 18 and 19. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u84	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, what responsibilities will the Government assume for having purged an undefeated colonel of the Civil Guard for refusing to comply with the law and bringing to the attention of the Ministry and its Government the investigations, the investigations for possible criminal responsibilities of the Executive in concealing the risk of contagion in the demonstrations of March 8th? By the way, in Germany they were suspended - that the replicas do him good -. You have your minister here, but your minister is a shield, because the instruction was given by you. And I also say that we also want to see the letter of resignation of the DAO, which will be very interesting. And we want to explain the purge to the director of the National Police who asked for material. And we also want explanations about the instructions to control the social networks that he gave to General Santiago. Since the days of the sewer - that was a sewer - of Luis Roldán we had not seen this. By the way, if you want to talk about police cloaca talk to Mr. Iglesias or Mrs. Lola Delgado. Success assured: prostitution and extortion of entrepreneurs, journalists and judges and trafficking in minors. Mr. Sánchez, you have assaulted judicial independence, you have assaulted the separation of powers, you have assaulted article 34 of the Organic Law, which defends the State Security Forces and Bodies; you have also assaulted the Constitution in its article 117. Please explain, as Mrs Montón and Mr Màxim Huerta have said, the irregularities of this Council of Ministers. You're the most responsible. And speaking of employment, losses, resignations and cessations, I keep the question I asked you to tell us also how you value the employment figures you have known this week, which is quite related, because the legal insecurity and international contempt of your Government cause shock all over the world. [[rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u86	Indeed, Mr President of the Government, the question on the agenda is how you value the destruction of employment. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u87	Madam President, it does not matter to the leader of the opposition to talk about employment or about the impact that the health crisis is having on the productive fabric in our country. He talks about respecting the institutions, he talks about the separation of powers, but starting by respecting the institutions is to submit to the Rules that we have freely given ourselves the parliamentary forces present here, Your Honor, not to use the Congress of Deputies as a television set, which is what you do systematically every time the Government comes under your control. [[applause]] I will tell you one thing, Mr Casado, I repeat to you, to you and to the People's Parliamentary Group: with this government there is no patriotic police, there are no para-cops who dedicate themselves - to what? - to conceal their shames, their corruptions and to manipulate the good name of the Civil Guard and the National Police, Mr Casado. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] This is so, Mr. Married. This is a government that defends the State Security Forces and Bodies. The largest investment in security infrastructure in the last ten years - this 2019-2025 plan that we approved - previews the investment of 600 million euros in the next seven years for the reform and construction of police stations of National Police and barracks of the Civil Guard. And for the wage equalization agreement, ladies and gentlemen - I remind you that those who are ruling are the Socialist and United Party We can, not you, who have lost five elections in one year -, to carry out, in effect, an economic effort of 807 million euros. And also, logically, the public offer of employment, 5000 new jobs and a replacement rate - I want to be precise - not by 120 %, as I said earlier in the debate, but by 115 % for the National Police and the Civil Guard, after years and years of cuts, when you were in government. And I will tell you something, Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you are attacking the Minister of the Interior because it is the Minister of the Interior who is collaborating with Justice to put an end to the patriotic police that you set in motion when you were ruling. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u88	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u89	It is better to lose choices than to lose the soul, said the son of Múgica, militant of the Socialist Party, who is what you do with the police, with the judges, with the victims of terrorism and with the unemployed, because here the one who has lost the job is Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, but also a million autonomous. [[Rumors]] Four million ERTE, one million workers, as we saw yesterday, in the worst number of jobs for eleven years.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u91	The balance of its management in two years is being to demolish public freedoms and the system of balances and controls of democracy and to destroy the economy and the welfare state once again, as ten years ago. Congratulations, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u92	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u93	Your Honor, I'm not going into your provocations, really. [[Several Members: No, no, no!]] No, I'm not. I believe that you yourself are portraying yourself in your opposition strategy, a follow-up opposition strategy of Mr Abascal and the ultra-right. That will be your responsibility. It will make your party smaller and the far right bigger. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NECESSARY CANDAMIL KINGDOM, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO TAKE TO FIGHT THE ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRIAL CRISIS THAT WE ARE SUFFERING? [[File number 180/000178]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u94	Question by Mr Néstor Rego Candamil, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, the social and economic crisis caused by this health emergency overlaps in Galicia with a deep industrial crisis, which particularly affects, but not only, the electro-intensive industry. The last episode of this crisis is the possible closure of the aluminum factory by Alcoa in San Cibrao. Taking this into account, what steps does the Government intend to take to deal with the economic and industrial crisis that we are experiencing?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u96	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Several issues. The first is what was not done before we arrived at the Government two years ago and what was done after the elections earlier this year. The previous government of the People's Party, Your Honor - you will agree with me - did nothing in industrial policy, much less did industrial policy in Galicia. I must also remind you, Your Honor, and share with all of you, that the Galician industry has received from this government in two years EUR 34 million, within the Reindus plan, that is to say the reindustrialisation plan. Moreover, you know our commitment, for example, to the Galician naval sector, to the award of the contract of five frigates F-110 to Navantia Ferrol, for an amount of 4300 million euros, which will generate 7000 jobs and a decade of work for the shipyard, as well as the 37 million euros granted for the Galician shipyards, which have allowed the sector to grow 219% in the last year. The Spanish Government, therefore, logically, in Alcoa and Galicia's reindustrialisation, is committed to Galicia, is committed to the workers, is also committed to industry and, logically, we are promoting this dialogue with Alcoa in order to give a horizon and a future to those plants that are at risk of extinction today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u99	Mr President, the announced closure of Alcoa's aluminium plant could mean the dismissal of 800 workers and also a negative economic impact, deep in the region of A Mariña. The Spanish Government has long known the delicate situation of the electro-intensive industry in Galicia and has not yet approved the status of the electro-intensive consumer. Even though the situation of the former Alcoa A Coruña, now Alu Ibérica, has not been resolved, the situation of Alcoa San Cibrao exacerbates a continuing industrial crisis in Galicia. We are surprised that the Government has not yet acted and has not even convened the multi-sectoral or multilateral table on Alcoa, which met for the first and only time on 23 January. For the BNG it is necessary to put in place solutions that give stability to the sector and to the whole of our industry. Firstly, to set up a Galician electricity tariff that will considerably lower the cost of energy, because Galicia is a surplus producer - we pay the very high social and environmental costs of a design that we have not made - but we do not benefit from that status as a producer country. On the contrary, at the moment Galician families and companies pay more for electricity than in Madrid, where they consume Galician energy 600 km away. Secondly, it is necessary to intervene to save the activity and jobs in Alcoa, so that, if management persists in its decision to close, the only alternative, in our opinion, is to nationalize the company. It should be remembered that it was already public and that it should never have been privatized. Returning Alcoa to the public sector, establishing a Galician electricity tariff that allows our companies to be more competitive and a plan to reindustrialize Galicia is today a peremptory necessity. Otherwise, the crisis of the coronavirus will end up chronicling a situation that was already very negative for the future of Galicia, and we cannot allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u100	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u101	Thank you, President. He is right - I begin with the end of his speech - indeed, this is a situation that came from afar, from behind, with many patches or even with a policy of deindustrialisation from the previous administration. What has the government done since we entered the executive branch? Try to solve the patches that were put by the previous Administration. At the end of 2018, for example, the sale process was safeguarded, and the Avilés and A Coruña plants were saved from closure and jobs - this is a reality - were preserved, and, following the announcement of the restructuring of the San Cibrao plant, on 28 May, actions have been taken to know the progress of the consultation period to be started. Today, 3 June, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Industry meets with the company committee. And the prospects for the future with our government are clear, we are looking for investors to save Lugo's plant. I would also like to recall the commitment, as I stated in my first speech, to the maintenance of the Spanish industrial fabric, especially in Galicia, through the effort of CO2 aid, the Reindus programme, the impetus to the status of the electro-intensive industry, and, at European level, the tax adjustment at the border through the carbon border tax, which is one of the proposals that is currently on the table by the European Commission. In any case, I would like to make that commitment to you first, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT CONCRETE ACTIONS ARE GOING TO CENTRE THE POLICIES OF HIS GOVERNMENT IN THE COURT AND MIDDLE PLACE IN THE NEED FOR RECONSTRUCTION BETWEEN COVID-19'S PANDEMY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00175]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u102	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, from the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u103	I note that the questions raised can be changed on a regular basis, but I will not do so on this occasion. I'll stick to the one already written and presented. What concrete actions will the policy focus on your Government in the short and medium term on the necessary reconstruction after the coronavirus pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u104	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Esteban, for complying with the Rules of Procedure that we have all given ourselves. I believe that for the proper functioning of this House we should respect the Rules of Procedure and stick to the issues that arise. If, quite rightly, there are parliamentary groups who want to change the questions, what they will have to do is to put forward a reform of the Rules of Procedure, and not act unilaterally, as, unfortunately, the conservative opposition is beginning to make this part for a while, and all the consensus, even that which has been given by the parliamentary groups on the basis of that Rules of Procedure, has failed. Adhering to your question, Mr Esteban, tell us that for us the ecological transition and the development of the green economy - yesterday we approved in the Council of Ministers the Circular Economy Strategy - entrepreneurship, digital transformation, quality employment, vocational training, science - which I believe is also something fundamental after all we are suffering - public health, public services, taking care of the countryside, the agri-food sector, will be part of this ambition for reconstruction, for the economic and social recovery that we have to tackle in the legislature, and not only at national level but also at European level. To this end, I naturally hope to have your input, your support, as well as that of the rest of the parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u107	Last week we asked him at the control session about his plans in the automotive sector. The next day, Thursday, the Nissan conflict broke out and the tremendous news that they were going to withdraw the company. The minister answered absolutely nothing to our question; now, you have announced a plan. Is it necessary to set up a scheme such as the one which has been set up, with the closure of a company, so that it is said that concrete plans will be put in place and that it will be pointed out in this respect? I will tell you as we see it: that it is the Ministry of Industry, that it is the Ministry of Tourism... But we see him somewhat absent in decision-making and in constant patching, but I fear that concrete programmes are already needed; not just to mention a few sectors, but specific programmes. They have already done so in France and Germany, which have already moved in the automotive sector and, for example, the electro-intensive status has now also been mentioned. The sectors for transformation must be chosen, sectors that have to bring added value, and I obviously point out to him the car, but also the aeronautics, the energy, the machine tool. I would say to him that even in some of these sectors we should seriously consider a timely, chosen extension, but a prolongation in some cases of ERTs. You have spoken of the necessary national plans to be made to manage this European money. Well, there have already been national plans on other occasions, and the truth is that many of them have not been implemented, have not been implemented, and it has often been due to the excessive bureaucracy with which they are regulated. I think that we should consider easing that because an inability to manage cannot be allowed at the moment. I believe that they should allow the autonomous communities to present their own plans, which should go on specific projects, demanding a subsequent responsibility for action. Watering yes, because there will probably be money, but where there is a project, and before the final closure of the European project, of that European strategy, we need to know exactly what those projects are going to be. The present Reconstruction Commission is not worth it, it is a real chaos, too many appearances and too many incredulities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u108	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you very much, Mr Esteban. Let us not give things up, we must first negotiate in Brussels; we will have the first European Council on 19 June to see exactly the size of the Recovery Fund and also the multiannual financial framework. And, as I said in the previous sitting, with the state of alarm, let us hope that it will be in July when we can reach agreement on the magnitude, what are going to be transfers, what are going to be loans. Secondly, what the Spanish Government is doing is already working to identify precisely those sectors that have suffered as a result of the health crisis, the impact they have on the economy and, therefore, to transport many of those resources that come to us from Brussels to those sectors. Logically, the tourism sector and the automotive sector are priorities. But, Mr Esteban, do not tell me that we have not done anything so far because, in the end, the Social Security has recognised more than 1,385,000 self-employed workers as being entitled to the extra work-out allowance, i.e. 97% of the self-employed who have applied for it, and we have carried out operations through the ICO 490,000 lines for a total of EUR 46,600 million. In short, I believe that we are giving an answer in the short and medium term, and to that end I invite your honor to continue to work with the Government. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Cayetana ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PROCEED WITH THE DEGRADATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS? [[File number 180/000182]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u110	Question addressed to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo Peralta - Ramos of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you. Madam Vice-President, what is the next institution that will be subject to the degrading action of the Government? For getting ready.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u111	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Since we have not started that path, we do not have to continue it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u113	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you. Mrs Calvo, progressives call themselves, involution is what they bring, from the democratic state and with it of political and social peace. Let's talk about the rift. This is your mechanism. The government appoints a reproved minister, famous for her privacy with blackmail and her hatred of the PP, we denounce him and you accuse us of squatting. They throw the Attorney General against the judge who investigates a pandemic that has cost 43 000 lives according to the INE, we denounce it and you accuse us of crisscrossing. They use the Civil Guard to fight the government's disaffection and match the truth with official sources, denounce it and accuse us of crisscrossing. They put a Moncloa advisor at the head of the CNMC, denounced him and accused us of chrisparing. They hypertrophy the Executive and jibarize the Legislature, denounce it and accuse us of chrisparing. They call justice corrupt, they press the Supreme, they demand pardons for the coup, they harass the judge who investigates them, we denounce him and they accuse us of crisscrossing. They agree to repeal labor reform with a party that justifies political murder, denounces it and accuses us of crippling. They announce a new table of divestitures with which they attacked the democratic state and say that they would do it again, denounce it and accuse us of crisscrossing. They admit in a crystalline video that they knew the huge risk of going to 8M, we denounce it and accuse us of chrisparing. They call us fascists, that is, criminals, tyrannicals, murderers, we denounce him and accuse us of crisscrossing. And the last thing at the moment, they stop a civilian guard colonel for refusing to commit a crime, then they lie, here in the Senate, in Moncloa, we denounce him and they accuse us of cricketing. The accusation of chrispar, Mrs Calvo, is an old socialist tradition. President González started it to cover the scandals of Filesa, Roldán and the LAGs; Mr Zapatero updated it when his pacts with ETA, unconstitutional status and economic debacle, and now you re-edit it; you want us submissive and silent. Forget it, it is not our words that cause the rift, it is your facts, and therefore, it is you who will have to rectify to return the calm to the nation, and that rectification begins with a resignation. Mr. Marlaska, what are you still doing in the blue bank? Why didn't you resign? And how is it possible that President Sánchez has not ceased? Get out of here. Neither the tattoo on your wrist nor the title on your autobiography tell the truth, you give grief and fear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u114	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, I will be very brief, and not because we have been here for many hours, that you deserve all the respect from me in a control session, but because degradation is two things that I have heard here this morning and that I am going to take you when I leave this door now. They have been told by their leader of ranks, improper of a young leader, of a European right-wing party and of a great democracy such as Spanish democracy. Look at what he said, intercomilado: 'We warned you that you could not rule'. What do they do when they lose the election? What are they doing when this House gives legal and legitimate confidence to a candidate and form government? What are you guys up to? Because you literally said it: We warned you that you could not rule. But then it has improved, because then it has said in singular, and I will put it in plural: you referring to the President of the Government will end up fishing. Given that no member of the government is fish, what are you doing, Mr. Married? What are they doing against the constitutional government of Spain at the worst tragic moment in this country? What are you guys up to? Tell it to the Spaniards. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: HOW DO YOU THINK TO AVOID THE SECOND Vice-President THAT THE ECONOMIC CRISIS IS CONVINCED IN A SOCIAL CRISIS? [[File number 180/000183]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u116	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Calvo, they've been caught. The proof is the letter in which they acknowledge that they gave unjust orders to a civilian guard. [[Applauds]] They've been caught, Mrs. Calvo. Lord Churches, that you do not like the things I say is not to cry. I hope you've come a little quieter today, a little quieter, because I'm going to keep telling you what you don't like to hear. Nissan workers don't want a minimum income, they want a job. Alcoa's workers don't want a social shield, they want their job. Because the best social shield is employment, which you are destroying. Look, don't be offended by what I'm going to tell you, but you've come to the government cheating on people. [[rumors]] You've placed a friend of yours in a revolving door in Enagas. If, as you said, rotating doors are a form of corruption and now places a friend in Enagas, what is it? You are already officially, thanks to Minister Marlaska, the government of lies. We are here to prevent them from becoming the government of ruin, of the ruin of Spain. And in this context, Mr. Iglesias, I ask you how you intend to prevent this economic crisis from becoming, moreover, a social crisis.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u118	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. García Aegean. Thanks for the tone too. [[Rumors]] Look, an economic crisis is usually synonymous with a social crisis, unless the public sector intervenes. And you know what this government is doing? Build a social shield. I am surprised that you are criticizing here today the last layer of protection of that social shield, which is a new social right in Spain that is called minimum living income. Although it is difficult for you to understand this, Your Honor, the condition of the possibility of security, freedom, democracy and economic recovery is social justice, and this Government will continue in that direction. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u120	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u121	Mr. Iglesias, social justice would be for the minimum income to be equal to that of your friend and placed at the revolving gate of Enagas. But, following the line raised, I would like you to answer me today with the same sincerity with which Minister Irene Montero responds when she believes that they are not recording it, because that phrase, 'It was by the coronavirus, but I am not going to say it', is the one that best defines her entire government. They knew that concentrating thousands of people on a demonstration would trigger the contagions, but they won't say it; they knew that testing and masks were needed, but they won't say it; they know that there are people who aren't charging ERTE, but they won't say it; they know that Marlaska has fooled us all, but they won't say it; they know that the official number of dead is not the right number, but they won't say it. Mr. Iglesias, listen to this: Paul Iglesias has made a lie his way of doing politics. This sentence is by Pedro Sánchez. Even if he can't say it publicly, I can. I will continue to say this for all who cannot do so, even if you call the propaganda management; the opposition, the obstacle; and the truth, chrispation. Because, even if you keep calling on the pain of the Spaniards to do politics, I'll keep telling you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u122	Thank you, Mr. García Aegean. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Egea, I have been thinking these days about why you go so much to the patter, the scoff, the provocation, and I think I have found the answer, and that is that you know that you are not going to rule, not in a few months or even in four years. [[a Member of the European Parliament pronounces words that are not perceived]] And you know why? Because your ideas have been defeated socially. The social majority in Spain will never again bet on fiscal amnesty, corruption or privatization. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u124	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u125	If anything this pandemic has produced, it is worth highlighting solidarity, the defence of the public and fraternity. And now I want to refer to you, Mr. Married. I have the feeling that you are perfectly aware that you are never going to get enough VOX seats, Citizens and the People's Party, and that is why you are perfectly aware that you are not going to be President of the Government. The strategy you are defending and exercising every day, Mr. Married, reveals that sad conscience on your part: you will never be President of the Government. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u126	Quiet, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA BELTRÁN VILLALBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP IN THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONCERN DEMOCRATIC GUARANTEES DURING THE STATE OF ALARMA? [[File number 180/000186]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u127	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Ana María Beltrán Villalba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u128	Thank you, President. Minister, this question was addressed to the Minister of the Interior. The cowardice of this government forced me yesterday, at the last hour, to do it to you, but I will address Mr Marlaska.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Beltrán Villalba. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Beltrán, for your question, although I was actually asking myself, I was asking the Government - and again I invoke the Rules of Procedure - to discuss whether the Government had ensured democratic guarantees in the state of alarm. I know, you have preferred other more juicy adobos, but I will talk to you, and I will, about how this Government in the state of alarm has guaranteed the right and freedoms of each and every citizen, preserving their health, which was what had to be done. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u131	Mrs. Beltran Villalba.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u132	Mr. Great-Marlaska, allow me a confession. His courage as a judge and the struggle against ETA were reasons that influenced me to devote myself to politics in Navarre and to plant in front of Bildu-Batasuna. You were for me, and for many Spaniards, the reference to respect for the law, the rule of law and our democracy, and I wonder: What remains of that person, Mr Marlaska? You have manipulated and denigrated the institutions of the state until you achieve the impossible, that public servants who have never surrendered to anything or anyone else will leave because of you. He lied in parliamentary office saying that he dismissed Colonel Pérez de los Cobos for restructuring while official documents reveal that he did not bend to petitions contrary to the law. You have become the shepherd who takes care of the wolves, you have ordered to watch those who promoted caceroladas against the government while you have not said a single word of the concentrations there have been in favor of murderers in Navarre and the Basque Country. He has kept quiet while his partner, Pablo Iglesias, signed with Basque and Catalan independenceists to release prisoners of age and convicted of sedition. You have also been silent, Mr Marlaska, while Pedro Sánchez gave the keys to the economy to those who still today continue to applaud the murderers of workers and entrepreneurs. I'm going to ask you two questions that for cowardice you won't be able to answer. Would you have accepted to be Sanchez's minister of knowing that you would have to dishonor those who have protected you for so many years? Would you have agreed to know that this government would treat as preferred partners those who wanted to see you murdered? Mr Marlaska, if the answer is no, resign because you have betrayed yourself; if the answer is yes, resign because you have betrayed everyone. Go away and don't close the door on your way out, because behind you will go the entire government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u133	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Beltrán, I see you have preferred to follow the path of your interests rather than the Rules of Procedure of the House. It doesn't matter. I'll tell you one thing. The state of alarm is a very important instrument in constitutional law, it is an instrument to prevent serious changes in normalcy and that is what you should perhaps review, what the state of alarm means and what it means in protection of rights and freedoms. Because the state of alarm, according to 116 and Law 4/1981, does not alter the rule of law at all, because the rule of law regulates institutions in their normality, but also in exceptional situations. The possibility of combating the pandemic, COVID-19, following the parameters of the World Health Organization is very clear: there is no vaccine, no treatments, only physical distancing is possible. Therefore, the alarm, according to Law 4/1981, is adapted to the situation by reducing mobility. And you know who's been controlling all that? Our State Security Forces and Bodies. And you know who was at the front? Mr. Marlaska, making it possible today to say that the virus is virtually vanquished. You insist, but I can assure you that the rights have been perfectly veiled, and this government has given a permanent demonstration. And, as I see you do not understand, I will explain it to you with three simple arguments: the alarm is decreed when there is no other option, you come to this House to ask for an extension every fifteen days and you are subject to control. Do you know how many questions from your group have been answered in relation to the coronavirus? Three thousand have been answered. And in the one hundred and seventy days of government, do you know how many questions this government has answered? Twenty thousand have been answered. I don't know if there are many or few, but I can assure you it's a historical fact. Mrs Beltrán, this government is concerned about fighting the virus, is concerned about fighting economic ruin and you are only fighting the government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u135	Thank you. Mr JAVIER ORTEGA SMITH-MOLINA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, which FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO TAKE MEASURES TO DEFEND THE JUDICIAL POWER OF THE INJURY INSTRUMENTS PROTAGED BY THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR THESE DAYS? [[File number 180/00188]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u136	Question by Mr Francisco Javier Ortega Smith-Molina, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, when are you going to take measures to protect the judiciary from attempts by the Minister of the Interior to interfere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u138	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ortega, let me first congratulate you on your recovery from health and for being in full activity. But I have to tell you that your question causes me perplexity, I have to admit it. I have been serving as Minister of Justice for very few months and have already spoken here several times to respond to alleged attacks on judicial independence. I don't see the attack anywhere, I just see a speech dedicated to chrispation, to sowing doubts, to sowing disconcertingness. And do you really know the only thing that they sow and harvest? Caceroladas. Your Honor, I listen to you and I do it with patience, shooting from the classic, from Juan de Mairena, you are not right, you are not right, but I will hear your reasons, and I do it with patience. But I can assure you one thing, your reasons are only due to noise and anger. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u140	Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u141	Minister, Colonel Pérez de los Cobos' fulminant cease-fire is not an isolated fact or by chance, it is part of the same strategy of a social communist government that he wants to put state institutions at the service of his interests to control them, ending with the division of powers, ending with the independence of the judiciary, ending with the fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy; ultimately subverting the constitutional order. And if not, Minister, if not, why do you continue to advocate that the highest governing body of judges, the General Council of the Judiciary, should be put to the finger by the political parties? Why do you continue to appoint a former socialist minister as the State Attorney General, turning her into the Public Prosecutor General of the Socialist Party, the Public Prosecutor General of the Government, against the criteria of all tax associations? Perhaps in the forthcoming judicial proceedings in which members of the Government are prosecuted for serious crimes, he will act in favour of that Government? Why have they turned the State Attorney's Office into the 'Government Advocate', as we had to see in the trial before the Supreme Court, in which at the last moment they changed the criterion by lowering the charge against the coup and, as we have just seen this week, by filing appeals to try to paralyze the investigation of a judge of a Madrid court who is investigating serious crimes as a result of the authorizations of the government delegate precisely in the 8M demonstrations? And why have they now also tried to turn the Judicial Police into the Government Police? Our group has put forward a non-legislative proposal precisely to ensure that this judicial police is organically and functionally subject to the sole discretion of judges and magistrates. Minister, do you know who's making coups d'état? Those who from the institutions undermine the principles of the rule of law and democracy. Minister, if you still have some of the conditions you had as a judge, listen to your former colleagues, listen to all the associations of judges who are claiming and asking for judicial independence. Do it, do it for personal dignity and for the dignity of the position you hold. And tell this Government to stop seeking impunity for the serious crimes it has committed by submitting to State institutions. If you don't, out of dignity, leave... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ortega, I told you: I hear your reasons, but you are certainly not right. Where's the interference in the judiciary? Why that eagerness to weaken the institutions of the State? Look, it's really hard to argue with you guys because you're in a good-bad manic game. Everything the government does, by definition, or has a cursed mind or is criminal. I can assure you one thing, the hand stretched out will always be, but I insist, I insist, do not play the conspiracy theory, where is interference in the judiciary? He's told me a series of events that are within the process. Won't the State Attorney's Office be able to appeal, which doesn't seem to her to be in line with the law? Is that a coup, an interference in the judiciary? Please, you're a fine lawyer, don't say that; don't say that, strengthen institutions, work. Is it not that from this fury and desire to wear down a Government are weakening the State itself and the institutions of the State? Because they tell me about the renewal of the Council, about measures, I ask you something much simpler, do you know that the best measure to strengthen the legal order is to comply with it? Work for the renewal of the Judicial Power Council, work for the renewal of the Constitutional Court! That is fulfilling the rule of law and not saying: let's reform it. And they're blocking their renovation. No, ladies and gentlemen. I will finish, by trying to calm down, with Juan de Mairena: If we want to build a house, we do not throw bricks, learn masonry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u144	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHAT ARE TAXES VALUING THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000189]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u145	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, I think you already know that in VOX we are persistent, we are even, I dare say, insecure of discouragement, and that is why I bring you the same question for the third consecutive week, to see if this time you answer it, because you are right when you say that we have to comply with the regulation; we have to comply with the question that you have referred before, but it is also appropriate to comply with the regulation by answering the question that you ask. You didn't answer the question last week, you were already answering the People's Party something that had nothing to do with us. And, minister, I think we'll get it today, see if you answer me. Look, I don't want to know, not only do I want to know, do the thousands of families, traders, self-employed, SMEs, professionals, businesses, who more than ever need that, when they're trying to get off the ground, the government don't crush them with a new fiscal shambles. So, at the moment, Minister, we should not raise taxes, but lower them. And I'm not going to ask you if you're going to lower taxes, what I'm going to ask you is what taxes the government is worth raising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u147	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Espinosa, excuse me for turning your back on you, but we're in a seat distribution that doesn't allow me to use the microphone while I'm talking to you. It seems to me that I have nothing more to add to the questions you have asked me for the third time. The first time I answered him: Look, the fiscal proposal of this government is present in the programmatic agreement that was signed with União Podemos, it is present in the draft budgets that was raised to this House and that ended failed. Therefore, you have there all the tax figures, with all the taxation that arises, with all the types. And I really tell you, Mr Espinosa, that sometimes you do not know what to answer again, because it seems to me a lack of respect to all your ladies and gentlemen to answer exactly the same thing I answered just three weeks ago. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u149	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u150	Thank you. Indeed, Madam Minister, you have answered the same thing; that is, you have not answered the question, just as last week. Good. You stick to or refer to what you put into your December agreement with Unidad Podemos, a communist, Marxist, Leninist group, which is in favour of raising all possible taxes. But in the meantime, between that agreement and today, some things have happened in the world, some, and in Spain as well. And at this moment, when Spain is in the worst economic crisis since the post-war period, you may want to review those agreements that you signed, because perhaps it is not the time to tell the self-employed that they cannot even pay their contribution that they have to pay more taxes. Perhaps it is not time to tell the families that they are suffering and those who do not even get the help of the ERTE that they are going to have to pay more taxes. Perhaps it is not the time to tell industrial companies, that they are going to bubbles from Spain, that it is the time to pay more taxes. Perhaps it is not the time to tell the traders, the SMEs - who are costing them a lot of work and a lot of effort to return to what you call new normality - that they have to pay more taxes; perhaps it is the time to tell them that this government is going to adjust the unproductive expenditure, that it is going to reduce the number of ministries, that it is going to look for the duplications that they have with the autonomous communities, that they are going to look for other ways to reduce a deficit that, anyway - as the President of the government has already said this morning - is going to come out. Therefore, Minister, if you continue not to answer questions, if you continue not to reveal what taxes are going to rise, you are generating enormous uncertainty to the Spanish economy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u151	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa. It is not only that I have told you, but that it is written, it is written in the draft budgets that came to this House. It is written in the programme agreement: the tax figures and the rates to be applied. I wanted to tell you, Mr Espinosa, that you always make the same speech. For you, it's best not to have taxation. For Mr Espinosa and the VOX Group - and also for all those who agree with them, such as the People's Party - if we do not have taxation and money, according to them, it is in the taxpayers' pocket, much better, and so that there is no welfare state, and that the time has come for a health pandemic, save who can: whoever has economic capacity, who goes to a hospital, and who does not have it, because he does not go; who has a talent to study, if he has economic capacity, who goes to a university and, if he does not, who is dedicated to reproducing the systemic poverty of his family. That is the model of society that you pursue, in addition to fighting the role of the autonomous communities. Whenever you intervene it degrades the role of the autonomous communities where, by the way, you give the support and where you govern together with your members of the People's Party. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon shows a tablet, on which you can read: Please stick to the question. Thank you.]] In addition, I would like to say that you are making a permanent attack on democracy in this regard: if there are no autonomous communities there is no democracy, and therefore the principles on which you support your model of society, the principles on which you support your policy are always the same: making politics a spectacle, a scandal that results for citizens who are not acceptable and that removes them from the behaviour of the institutions because, in the end, you have come to politics to charge yourself with the institution and the policy itself. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT MEASURES HAS THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR ADOPTED TO INVESTIGATE THE FILTRATION OF THE REPORT PREPARED BY THE ORGANISATION OF THE JUDICIAL POLICIES OF THE COMMANDANCE OF THE CIVIL CARE OF MADRID, BY ORDER OF THE INSTRUCTION JUDGMENT INVESTIGATING THE ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS ADOPTED DURING THE FIRST DAYS OF THE HEALTH CRISIS? [[File number 180/000184]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u153	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Marlaska, I sincerely believed that I would not have to ask you this question today. I find it amazing to see him sitting there losing his dignity, allowing the attacks on the Civil Guard, calling them today patriotic police of the President of the Government; or the attacks of the Vice President of the Government insinuating that they are coupsmen. Today, he has lost the confidence of those Spaniards in the judge-minister who attacks the rule of law, which causes interference in justice to save the Government. Do you swear to tell the whole truth and nothing but the truth? Anyone who lacks this oath in private life receives moral reproach, who does so in a court of law commits a crime and, Mr Marlaska, when the person who does it is a minister, resigns. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u155	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, Mrs Vázquez: I promise - I promise - to tell the truth and the whole truth. I will tell you that I continue to promise to tell you the whole truth in the terms that neither this minister nor any of his team asked the Civil Guard for any report, nor to take notice of any report, because we do not do so. I will remember, yes, your question, because your question is very interesting and you may not dare to reproduce it because perhaps you have been asked why you have done it. You ask what the minister is going to do with the leaks relating to that same investigation. Perhaps you, by your police training, have given full in the central core, and in the document that you have taught in a twisting way and with a fallacious interpretation the president of your party. [[Rumors]] Obviously, an indication of what had happened and why such a circumstance had been omitted from the chain of command was requested and requested in the face of these leaks. That's the reason. You don't care if an investigation is leaked to a newspaper or a journalist, but you do seem to care that the director of the Civil Guard, the secretary of state or the minister are aware of what investigations are being done to prevent that leak. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u157	Mrs. Vazquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u158	Minister, today he serves 725 days as a minister, 725 days of institutional degradation that end with this scandal. Mr. Marlaska, I see you lack humility and pride today. You used your pride in ceasing Colonel Pérez de los Cobos - precisely the director points to you - because you had lost the confidence of the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior. He shot an honest man simply for not submitting to you and for complying with the law. You were talking about wanting to give the Civil Guard a boost, and what you want to do is give it a pulse. He wants to pulse the neutrality and independence of the Civil Guard. You didn't have this planned and you had to ascend them to lieutenant generals. He wrote two embarrassing press releases, which are still hanging today. In one guilt to Mrs. Margarita Robles and in the other not. Which one's Mr. Sanchez with today, huh? With Margarita Robles or the one she's not with? Both are still hanging today. Mr. Marlaska, you're being asked to resign from the Civil Guard, the judges and the prosecutors. He's lost all legitimacy. You are no longer a non-legislative minister today, you are a finished minister. And since today you have had the indecency to reach the blue chair, I ask you not to be ashamed to reach the chair of justice still as a minister. Dismissed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u159	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Vazquez, I see you don't care much about your question. It does not care about the significance of the leaks of sensitive investigations before they are known to the parties, the procedural parties, with obviously interference in the judicial work and also with impairment of the right of defence. And most importantly, don't you know that a leak is a crime, a crime of revealing secrets? He doesn't seem to care about that. Do you find it strange to ask for explanations of these circumstances, what is being investigated, how they have arrived and all the circumstances? Does that seem strange to you? To us and to the Civil Guard, to the values of the Civil Guard obviously does not seem anything strange to us. What a leak can do is discredit an investigation, and what we will not allow is that the investigations, the hard work, important, day-to-day work of the Civil Guard is the object of a denostation by third parties. That's protecting, and protecting whoever commits the crime. That's to guarantee neutrality. That's to guarantee professionalism. That is to ensure the impartiality of public officials, unlike what was obviously happening with his Government, that of the People's Party. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT CONCRETE ORDER DOES THE COLONEL PEREZ DE LOS COLONEL DE LOS DE LOS MANIFESTED BY THE VICEPRESIDENT SECOND THE PAST PLENARY IN THIS CAMERA? [[File number 180/00187]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u161	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last week from that rostrum, in the bleak tone that characterizes him, Vice President Iglesias referred disrespectfully to Colonel Pérez de los Cobos calling him an old civil guard who disobeyed an order. Hear, more clearly, water, both the proposal for cessation and the literal motivation of the proposal for cessation signed by the Director General of the Civil Guard that we met yesterday. Therefore, what specific order did Colonel Pérez de los Cobos disobey?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u163	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I'm sorry to turn my back on you, too. You ask me for a debate which, if I am not mistaken, was taken on pages 10 and 11 of the Journal of Sessions of the twenty-third session of the Plenary of the Congress. I inform you that neither the second vice-president nor the interpeller, Mr García Aegean, speak of any specific order not complied with by Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. I'll send you, if you like, a copy of that Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u165	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u166	Madam President, the Minister of the Interior has just lied, and I will therefore ask that, pursuant to Rule 72(2) of the Rules of Procedure, when this question is over, the Journal of Meetings is read out, literally stating what I have pointed out. Minister of the Interior, one more lie. One of his many lies. A lie that offends the toga he dressed, that offends the Civil Guard, that offends the Spaniards and, of course, that offends this House. Look, your cheating behavior has been demonstrated again today. His immoral and cowardly conduct shows that there is nothing left of that magistrate who was in the fight against ETA, who today became a mere learner of the scoundrel of a Government who bargains with the heirs of those murderers, who begs the vote of the coupts on 1 October, and who ceases a soldier and a man of honor for fulfilling his duty and for refusing to commit a crime. Therefore, you are also guilty of a fundamental fact, of that criminal negligence of the 8M that has caused thousands of deaths and national ruin. They will, of course, have to answer for it before the courts and at the polls. VOX is going to demand it. We will not fail to do so, because we are the patriotic, democratic and social alternative that Spain needs so that you do not steal freedom or harmony from it or condemn it to live in misery. Go away, Mr Marlaska, much more after today's lie, if you keep a minimum of honor, dignity and shame. Make it ready. That's right, leave the door wide open, which will soon follow Sanchez and Churches. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u167	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. After the political rally he has launched, I see how much he cares about the professional career of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos and the reason for his ceasing his position in the Madrid Command. [[Mr. Gil Lázaro shows a Journal of Sessions]] You know well - you know it for its long political trajectory - that there are many positions of free designation that are based on trust. When a Government arrives, as I said before, it makes the decision - especially if they are public officials - to have officials, in terms of impartiality, neutrality and professionalism, which it understands to be appropriate and desirable. We can distinguish the legal from the just and the unfair. Legal is objective. Is it legal or is it not legal to remove certain personnel if the necessary confidence is not available? It may be just or unfair for you the measure taken, from a subjective point of view. It was legal for Mr. Zoido to dismiss the entire police dome, the one that had defeated the terrorist organization ETA, when it arrived, right? It was also legal for Mr. Zoido to modify in the middle of July - on vacation - the organization chart of the ministry to remove the DAOs, and the DAO of the Civil Guard, one of the most laureated lieutenant generals in our history, right? It was legal and fair. Look at the difference. That document that the president of the People's Party, to which you belonged before and to which you are closer and closer - that's what it is - you know what I was saying? He justified the loss of confidence. Do you know what you do when you lose confidence? They throw them out the door and they don't even say goodbye. We, in order to ensure that, if they want, they can exercise their rights before the courts, tell them the reason why we have lost confidence, but we never deny their professional career, which has our full recognition. [[Prolonged applause.- Mr. Gil Lazarus asks for the floor and continues to show a Journal of Sessions]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u169	Mr. Gil Lázaro, you know that control sessions are never interrupted. If the Journal of Sessions approaches the Bureau and indicates the sentence that it wants to be read, it will be read later.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u170	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u171	You're welcome. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL YOU DIMITATE, MR. GREAT MARLASKA? [[File number 180/000180]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u172	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u173	Mr. Marlaska, last week you cease Colonel Pérez de los Cobos because he refuses to comply with an illegitimate order, refuses to inform you about the performance of the Judicial Police. Lieutenant Colonel Laurentino Ceña presents his resignation displeased precisely by this decision, and you respond to the Civil Guard by ceasing Lieutenant General Santafé. Not only are you a despot, you're also a liar. Do you want to tell us if you have enough dignity to file your resignation? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u174	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Bal, no, I will not resign because, as I have said and will repeat later in the inquiry with you, I have not committed any illegality, neither I nor my team have committed any illegality. I have not ceased - I have to tell you this - to Mr Pérez de los Cobos, but he has been the Secretary of State on the proposal of the director of the Civil Guard. [[Rumors]] Mr Ceña, so much so that they speak of my resolution - and my appreciation of the previous DAO Ceña for all his years of work - in his own letter of resignation spoke of legal resolution, but unjustly what he spoke of earlier. You therefore also comply with that legal provision, that resolution adopted. There is a remodeling of the teams that was already planned, as Mr Ceña also acknowledged; a concrete remodeling where we seek professionalism, where we seek - I say again - neutrality and impartiality. Of course, it's very difficult to choose from all the generals of the Civil Guard. And you know why it's so hard? Because they are genuine professionals, that is why it is very difficult, but among them we must choose those who understand that at a given moment they are the most opportune in the terms indicated, and to reactivate the magnificent work of the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u176	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u177	Look, I read your statements: neither this minister nor anyone from the ministry nor from the General Directorate of the Civil Guard, anyone, has asked Pérez de los Cobos for the report or for access to the contents of the report. These are his words. He has already lied, because the newspaper tells us that effectively the cessation for loss of confidence is because there is no information on the performance of the Judicial Police. His director general of the Civil Guard is telling you this in the media. You go out on a press conference and you say it was for lack of confidence. Then he says it was for an ordinary remodeling of the ministry and the Civil Guard team. But yesterday in the Senate he says you're investigating a leak as if it were Colonel Perez of the Cobos' fault. Look, I appeal, as has already been done here today, to your status as a fighter against ETA and Batasuna. Do you remember when you and I met? Conducting anti-terrorism trials. If that's all... but it turns out that in two years you've been ministering, Colonel Sánchez Corbí has stopped by an e-mail where he said the UCO couldn't act without a budget. He pointed to Citizens at the manifestation of the Pride, and then drew up a false report justifying the position of the ministry. The head of labour risk prevention of the National Police has ceased because he said there were no masks. It has allowed tributes to etarras in the Basque Country and Navarre. He has set aside prison officials by denying them the concept of agents of authority. She has had to force her partner, Mrs. Robles, to ascend to Major General Salas to put someone of her confidence as operational deputy director, when this position was always a rigorous escalator. You have no dignity. The Civil Guard, yes. He's tried to shut his mouth with what he calls pay equity, which he isn't. He lied. Mr. Marlaska, you have to resign, you have no other. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u178	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bal, first of all I make a reference to you. You're the one who's lying. It has not always been antiquity the only criterion. Look at the hemerotheque. Secondly, do not patrimonialize the Civil Guard. And, please, a respect for General Salas. General Salas, and I don't want to customize, is one of the people, one of the generals who has fought against ETA most. His last performance, getting the arrest of Josu Ternera. You say I lied because a newspaper says so. Good source of research. I tell you again that neither I nor my team have requested either the report or the content of the report. You say something really true, and it is that I, from the very beginning, in my appearance said that the causes were the remodeling - because, obviously, we are in a remodeling phase - and also the loss of confidence. But I didn't mean any more because I have respect for Mr. Pérez de los Cobos' professional career. You're trying to investigate in more reasons and disrupt that career, and I'm not about the job. But I said it, and I had to talk about leaks and the request for information about leaks and say something reasonable about the investigations... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u180	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE SUPPORTED GIRL AGUSTIN ALODOBAR BARCELÓ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT IS THE CONTENT OF THE PLAN FOR THE REACTIVATION OF THE SPANISH TOURIST SECTOR THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS ANNOUNCED FROM WEEKS? [[File number 180/00185]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u181	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr Agustín Almodóbar Barceló, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u182	Minister, what is the content of the plan for the revival of the tourism sector that the government has been announcing for weeks?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u183	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u184	Thank you, President. The first thing I would like to point out is that tourism is a strategic sector on the government's agenda. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a severe impact on the sector, and the government's response was swift and strong and has allowed for a solid safety net to protect employment, but also to maintain our tourist fabric. You ask me about the sector's reactivation plan, and you will agree with me that the reactivation started weeks ago, with the adoption of measures that have been a containment dam for the sector, measures such as the flexibility of the ERTE, which have protected almost a million tourism workers and which have been extended until 30 June, thanks to the agreement of the social partners with the government; or the ICO line, which has facilitated liquidity to about seventy thousand tourism companies, with an amount of more than EUR 6400 million. The Government's goal has been to create a safety net for no one to stay behind. But, Your Honor, we have also worked on the next day to reactivate tourism. You will agree with me on the importance of regaining confidence in the Spanish brand as a safe destination; of recovering economic activity in a framework that can guarantee the safety and health of workers, residents and tourists who come to our wonderful destinations. That, Your Honor, was made possible by the state of alarm. When they vote against the extension they are preventing us from having a safe destination and, ultimately, they are preventing the tourism sector from recovering. If you care so much about tourism, support the Government and do not use the pandemic against the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u185	Mr. Almodóbar Barceló.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u186	Thank you, President. First of all, Minister of the Interior, you have answered three questions and you have not denied Mr Sánchez's investigation into the patriotic police. I urge you to come out and explain. Look, there's no plan. You have an obligation to support tourism seamlessly. Spain emerges from this crisis in clear competitive disadvantage. The government's bandages and the uncertainty they generate do not help. They have an obligation to give clear and concrete answers to our destinations, accommodation companies, agencies, transport, commerce and hospitality, to all the great and varied complementary offer and to their workers. His ministry is the most important for the whole of Spain, but it is so insignificant that they have even left it out of reconstruction. They announce to us almost three months after the closure of companies that will soon present a plan, which does not approach, by far, the needs of the sector, to which they remain unheard. Today Germany continues to recommend not coming. You, as always, late and bad, and our competitors advance us. They're extending it all, waiting for it to be resolved by itself. And the ministers helping. Ábalos: tourism is an activity that we have to sacrifice. She corrected it yesterday with mobility. Diaz: you will not be able to return to the activity until the end of the year. Ribera: the one who does not feel comfortable not to open. And as a colophon, Minister Garzón. Look, tourism needs to be defended, and you, as the highest responsible for tourism policy, have not exercised the leadership that would have been expected. So far, you have not even been able to hurt Mr. Garzon's words. Then the incomprehensible quarantine was removed from the sleeve; more uncertainty, mistrust, discomfort and contradictions. Do you really believe, Minister, that, as responsible for Spain's main productive sector, you have lived up to this crisis? I'm really asking you, value it. From the People's Party we have put forward proposals; extend the ERTE until the end of the year and pay them; give tools to the municipalities; boost fiscal incentives; eliminate fees. As I told you in the Commission, tourism is a success story in Spain, it is the effort and sacrifice of many generations. And someone who knows it well tells him, because he comes from one of the world's most important pioneer destinations, Benidorm. The future of more than three million families dependent on tourism is at stake, more than three million, Minister. Gentlemen of the Government, it is intolerable that eighty-two days after and after six extensions of the state of alarm Spain today does not have a plan of reactivation and support. Words alone will not save tourism. Spain deserves a lot more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u187	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u188	Thank you, President. Mr Almodóbar, I tell you many times, you are always late: you did not support the extension of the ERTE until 30 June, and now you are asking us to extend the ERTE until 30 December. It will be seen, because, as you know, there is a tripartite Commission that is working to ensure that this million workers in the tourism sector, which this Government is protecting, are indeed being given security, because this Government is working to protect the health of workers, but also to protect this economy. You said there was no plan. Well, of course there's a plan! I was telling him that we started many weeks ago, and we're also developing a four-pillar plan, and I'm going to talk to him about two of them; that, by the way, on Friday we were able to talk to the autonomous communities, with whom we have a lot of dialogue, and you should know, that they govern five autonomous communities. The first pillar of the plan is based on health security; for the moment, and as you know, we have approved twenty-one health protocols for the various tourist activities in the field of social consultation.... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u189	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WILL THE GOVERNMENT BETWEEN INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY AND RISK EMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/00191]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u190	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Maroto, will the government intervene to maintain industrial activity and to protect jobs at risk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u192	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u193	Thank you, President. I want my first words to show all support for the workers of Nissan and Alcoa. At the moment we must work together with public administrations, social partners and political forces to maintain the productive capacities and employment of these industrial plants. Since the start of the legislature, we have faced various industrial crises, and we have always argued that industrial policy is the best tool for maintaining productive capacities and employment, especially when it is at risk. We have demonstrated the commitment of the ministry, and my own, to finding solutions to different crises, as demonstrated by the cases of Vestas, Cemex, Alcoa or Barreras. What we have done in these cases has been to use industrial policy instruments to find the best possible solution. But we have also avoided some crises, thanks to the Government's commitment to industry. Your Honor, the unit of action of administrations and workers is fundamental. That is why we now have to focus on the companies that close, not on the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Iñarritu García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u195	Minister, as you well know, industry is one of the fundamental pillars of what the productive fabric is, and it also supports billions of jobs and their families. During this health crisis we are seeing that there was already a crisis in the sector, but this may be the dot. We are seeing this, and the Alcoa case has been mentioned on many occasions, the Nissan case, by the way, with years and years of funding and public aid, and which, at the moment, aims to leave thousands of people on the street. And in the Basque Country, in Euskal Herria, we see how automotive companies - Volkswagen, Mercedes, Michelin - are lowering production, in addition to other auxiliary companies, so it is obvious that beyond the specific measures there are tens of thousands of jobs at risk. And this situation is not new, we have already lived it before in the Basque Country, in the process of industrial dismantling, with companies that were viable. There's the case of La Naval, Xey and so many others. That is why, Mrs Maroto, beyond the maintenance of the ERTEs - of course - we believe that measures would be necessary to sustain employment which would be in the process of demanding industrial plans from companies and monitoring them. Similarly, in view of the reality of relocation, we believe that a relocation plan should be activated, because we see, in the same way, in States such as France or Germany, that measures of aid, public participation are adopted or even that there is talk of the nationalization of essential sectors without complexes. That's why I ask him: And in Spain, what? Madam Minister, without being grievous, the Central Bank is pointing to a catastrophic situation and in view of this devastating panorama we have even seen the monarchy asking for milk and oil, making charity, and this does not go of charity; it goes of planning, monitoring and forecasting. We therefore ask you, on the one hand, to repeal the labour reform as soon as possible, but, on the other hand, to tell us what measures will be applied in this recipe of industrial policies that we are talking about, whether in R & D, in training, in public intervention - capital -, in short-term rescues or in ecological and digital transition. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u196	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u197	Thank you. Your Honor, the reality is that we have, as you know, begun to have a Ministry of Industry with this government - just two years ago - and industrial policy needs time to deliver results, not from one year to another; it needs time to implement. The Government, as I said to you, has continued to demonstrate its commitment to industry, to maintaining productive capacities and employment through sectoral industrial plans for certain sectors, such as the car industry announced by the President last week, strengthening CO2 aid, the reindustrialisation plan, the promotion of an electro-intensive consumer status and at European level with the defence of the border adjustment mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion - bearing in mind that industrial policy is important for you - I would like to encourage all political forces to work for a pact for industry, a pact that recognises the importance of industrial sectors in job creation, wealth, social and territorial cohesion. It is key that we agree with public administrations, political forces and social actors to ensure that this commitment has stability, permanence and certainty, and I hope that their group will be ready to join this challenge. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: DO YOU HAVE ANY PLAN FOR ESTIMATING THE SPANISH AND INTERNATIONAL TOURIST CONNECTIVITY WITH CANADIANS? [[File number 180/000174]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u199	Question by Mr Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you have any plans to stimulate Spanish and international tourist connectivity with the Canary Islands?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u201	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u202	Thank you, President. In the Canary Islands, as in the rest of the autonomous communities, higher levels of mobility are being recovered as it progresses in the descalation that, as you know, is being gradual and, above all, is being secure. At present it is possible to move through the province, island or territorial unit of reference without prejudice to the exceptions justifying the movement to another part of the national territory for health, labour or force majeure reasons. The Government is taking the necessary steps to lift mobility restrictions at both the national and international levels. As from 22 June, when the last extension of the alarm decree is completed, national mobility will be recovered and, as a result, connectivity between the islands and the peninsula will be restored. And from July 1 we will return to receive international tourists safely and without the need for quarantine. However, control measures such as temperature take-up, supplementation of questionnaires or monitoring of persons entering through ports or airports shall be maintained. Your Honor, as the President of the Government has said, there will be a tourist season this summer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u203	Mr. Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u204	Thank you again, Madam President. Madam Minister, I am very glad that you are so optimistic, but I have some data that advises us to say that we are not going to be pessimistic because yes, but let us be optimistic, lightly, neither. First of all, dependence. Canary Islands is not anything in relation to tourism, but not for nothing, but because the highest dependence of the Spanish State, with a huge difference in the tourist activity of the Canary Islands, is three times more than the average and it is the community that most depends on tourism of all Spanish communities, therefore, constitutes 40% of employment and 35% of GDP. Let's see if we realize that this can't be happily dispatched with one we're all in the same condition. Secondly, air connectivity is crucial, indeed, for the Canary Islands, but it is crucial because the terrestrial connection is simply impossible. However, when the air borders are opened, there are many more factors than the air border has been opened to determine whether people come to visit us or not because it is a destination that is mid-distance, especially in the summer and not close, as is the case with other places in Europe and the Spanish State. Therefore, the opportunity to sell the Canary Islands is the good health behaviour in the pandemic, with the possibility of being part of green corridors, of safe corridors between different tourist destinations. But for that to be true and for that to be true, the basic condition has to be the absolute guarantee to the people who visit us that there is no risk of being infected or infected. Or are we going to ask air operators to come on planes to a third? This is not going to happen and as this cannot happen, the only guarantee is the absolute assurance that a contagion will not occur. What just happened on the last flight to Lanzarote is a good example because, if two of those things happen to us, we're going to have a problem, to see how we solve it. Then, our approach is the agreement between the governments and also with the operators to guarantee PCR tests to all people who are going to travel, being the destination in this case Canary Islands, because it is the only valid way that...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u205	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u206	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Indeed, we share that mobility has to be recovered gradually, but also that it is a safe mobility and that we have the destinations prepared to receive these international tourists, so important for the destination of the islands. We are currently working to lift mobility restrictions in different areas. Firstly, to lift the restrictions between intra-European borders by means of control measures, following the recommendations of the European Commission. We are also opening designated entry points at ports and airports, setting in motion, as I pointed out, pilot experiments on safe routes, even before the lifting of borders with Schengen countries, but maintaining health control measures that prevent any risk of pandemics. I have to point out that in these cases we are working both with the Canary Islands and with the Balearic Islands in order to be able to do these safe corridors as soon as possible, but we are also assessing the implementation of possible safe routes with third countries, provided that they are at the same epidemiological level as we are and establishing reciprocity agreements. We need, ladies and gentlemen, to generate confidence and stability, but also certainty, in Spain, in the Canary Islands to start quickly, but also with the maximum health guarantees, the recovery of our economic activity and in particular of tourism, which is so important to the islands. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA TELECHEA I LOZANO, OF THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT HAS EFFECTIVELY RESPONSIBLE TO WORKERS WHO HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO GO TO WORK IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE GOVERNMENT DECLARED BY THE GOVERNMENT BY THE STATE OF ALARMA? [[File number 180/000190]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u208	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mrs Carolina Telechea i Lozano, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Does the Government believe that it has responded effectively to workers who have not been able to go to work during the state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u211	President, Mrs Telechea, yes, yes, I am convinced that the Government, as it has been deploying standards associated with the alarm decree, has been ensuring that all those workers who were unable to work as a result of the alarm decree have had adequate coverage in terms of the corresponding benefits. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u212	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Telechea i Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u213	Thank you, President. Minister, during the state of alarm your government has left many workers helpless. They sent people to work on the fifteen days of the confinement due to pressure from the right and without the PPE. They did not solve all those families, especially'monomarental' families, who are forced to give up their work for the care of their children or dependents, which has led to greater inequality in an already ill-treated sector, such as care, which is mostly carried out by women. They have left many families without the support for the lack of payment of the ERTE, which did not arrive. In Catalonia in May there were 255 000 people working with ERTE and without charge. Self-governing and SMEs also deserve much more from their Government. We have also discovered that there have been companies that have taken advantage of the COVID to dismantle and close their facilities, parasites that, as in the crisis of the last decade, make the misery and suffering of the workers their business, such as the case of the Nissan, to the workers from whom I send all our support, and from the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, with the leadership of Vice President Pere Aragonès and Councillor Chakir El Homrani, are trying to find a solution for the workers and not abandon them to their fate. Can you tell us how you're going to defend the 27,000 families who are going to run out of work? And we wouldn't want to see how that seemingly seemingly happened to Nissan happen to pass with the workers of the Conca d'Odena, and as an equal I feel personally committed and demand their immediate reparation. What policies do you plan to do? Are they really going to repeal labor reform? Or not? And the law bites? What does your vice president, Pablo Iglesias, think of the pact with Citizens, a right-wing party that defends the opposite? We ask you to carry out truly progressive policies so that people who need it the most do not stay behind. The crisis re-emphasizes that resource management would be better in our hands than in yours. That is why we defend our own state, because we are convinced that it is the best way to help more and better... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u214	Mrs. Telechea, thank you very much. Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u215	In this crisis, the incomes of 5 700 000 workers have been protected. Put any international reference you want from the past in Spain and see if that figure seems important to you or not. This will make you realize that it is an extraordinary effort to identify all those people, all those workers who, as a result of a situation arising from the crisis of the coronavirus, have had to stop their activity. I believe that the data are overwhelming and internationally recognized. If there is any particular situation, as it may have been, that with a measure that always has a general character we may have escaped, we have been progressively correcting it. The case of the Odena Basin that you pose to me, for example, is a complicated situation. In the first instance, temporary disability was extended not only to infected persons, but to those who were in quarantine, in Decree 6/2020, if I remember correctly. The temporary disability was then extended to those persons who were not in quarantine but who had a general confinement situation in that area based on the criteria of the health authorities. Finally perhaps he is referring to that, because everyone else was covered by temporary disability as a work accident in Decree 11/2020, all those confined in the Odena Basin may be thinking, I understand, of the situation of those who were outside the Odena Basin and could not go to work, who in principle should be protected by an ERTE or by an autonomous benefit. Your situation may not be completely comparable to those inside. We can explore and we are exploring ways to assimilate them, but really look at all the general photography and you will realize that the effort made in terms of finding solutions is extremely extensive. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u216	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u217	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress to the Minister of Industry, Tourism and Trade regarding the extraordinary measures that the Government intends to take to maintain activity and employment in the Spanish industrial sector. Mr De Olano Vela has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Marlaska, taking advantage that you're here, I'm addressing you. The President of the Government has suggested that Mr. Pérez de los Cobos was stopped as part of a cleansing of what he called patriotic police. I would ask you to come out at the press conference to explain what the President of the Government is referring to as a patriotic police officer and, on the other hand, I would also like to give you some advice. If you want to know the sewers of the State, talk to Mr. Iglesias or Mrs. Dolores Delgado, Attorney General of the State, but under no circumstances do you muddle the honor of a colonel like Mr. Pérez de los Cobos. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Maroto, I apologize that the first words were not addressed to you. Mrs Maroto, you run a ministry that accounts for about 40% of GDP and the same for employment in our country. Nearly eight million jobs depend on your policies and we note with great concern how, since you arrived in the government two years ago, Spain lacks a serious industrial policy. You will tell me that there is now a Ministry of Industry and that there was no Ministry of Industry before, but, believe me, the workers and the companies, what matters to them is to feel self-assured and supported by the government and not abandoned to their fate when not directly deceived, as has happened to them since Sanchez and you came to the government. Believe me, Mrs Maroto, a Ministry of Industry that does not do industrial policy, a Ministry of Industry that does not defend our industry is no value; it is simply a useless expense. Mrs Maroto, the question that we are about to ask refers in particular to two sectors that are fundamental to our country: the automotive industry and the electro-intensive industry, which are fundamental for several reasons, because they are major generators of direct employment, of quality employment, by the way; because they are tractors of other sectors; because they are intensive in R & D & i; because they are, moreover, highly exporting - and I do not have to explain to you the importance that the foreign sector had to emerge from the previous crisis - and, finally, they are vital for the future of many regions and I would even dare to say that of many provinces of our beloved Spain. Two sectors, Mrs Maroto, abandoned by your Government and this is something that we affirmed not only in the People's Party, but also you could hear in the mouth of the president of the table for the Alliance for the Competitiveness of Spanish Industry, who stated yesterday afternoon in this house that Spain lacks industrial policy. The truth, Mrs Maroto, is that since you have been in government in Spain, almost seven thousand industrial companies have been shut down. With Sanchez as president and you in the Ministry of Industry, ten industrial companies close every day. This is the black balance of his management at the head of the ministry. This is the truth, hard, simple and plain but the truth. [[The Lord]] A socialist minister coined in the 1990s the phrase 'The best industrial policy is that which does not exist', and you have internalized this phrase in such a way that the results cannot be other than those which I have just described to you. But what are the causes? To put it very briefly, this Government has not adopted a single measure that creates an environment conducive to business or industry. On the contrary, by analysing the government's actions, one can conclude that you are determined to put an end to industry in our country. Let us review some of the milestones of recent months: Vice-President Calviño lying to the European Union about deficit targets; the Minister of Finance lying to everyone, therefore, despite her tireless verborrhea, the reality is that in 2019 all fiscal rules were breached - all: deficit, debt, expenditure -; constant announcements of tax increases and creation of new tax figures; the second president, Mr. Iglesias, calling into question private property and threatening confiscations and nationalizations; the fourth vice-president, Mrs Ribera, announcing the advance death of the diesel, which undoubtedly led to the crisis in the car sector in our country; the Minister of Labour, Mrs. Díaz, demonizing the entrepreneur; PSOE and Podemos agreeing with Bildu on the complete repeal of the labor reform that I believe more than 3 million jobs and that saved the car industry from 2012 until today; and finally, Mr. Sánchez finishing with the independence of the CNMC governing bodies up to now put Mr. Something unheard of, Mrs. Maroto. In short, lack of credibility, legal insecurity, job insecurity, ideological sectarianism and lies, many constant lies, that is, the perfect cocktail to generate mistrust and, consequently, drive away companies and investors. That's why what's happening to us, 26 billion capital flight in March, triple that in 2019 and almost, as I said, seven thousand closed industrial companies. Yes, Mrs Maroto, it is the lack of confidence in your Government and in the lack of industrial policy that drives companies and investors out of our country. Social-communist policies have never worked anywhere in the world, in none, and the truth is that I can't understand that absurd exercise of obstinacy that makes them think that, in this case, they are going to work here. Ladies and gentlemen, in a context of crisis affecting almost the entire planet, when large corporations are immersed in relocation and adjustment projects, when investors are more fearful of their future bets, what kind of message is the government sending them? All an invitation to leave our country, unfortunately; only mistrust, that mistrust that generates misinvestment and enterprise flight. You, your policies over the past two years, basically consist in opening the door to industry and investment. The result is the closure of its plants in our country, as announced by Nissan, in Barcelona, last week and Alcoa in the Marinha lucense, which join the already executed march of Vestas, in León, or the loss of very important contracts in Navantia that cause thousands of jobs in Ferrol and in Cadiz. Let me stop at Nissan's lockdown. Let me also give you a fact that in my opinion is quite revealing. Do you know when it was the last time a car plant was shut down in Spain? It was in 2011 that Mr Zapatero ruled, and the Socialist Party had to return to close again car factories in Spain. This is the truth, Mrs. Maroto, the sad reality. What have you done for the automotive sector? The People's Parliamentary Group offered him a great pact for automotive months ago; they wouldn't listen to us. Now you announce that you will produce one, let us trust that it will not remain in pure propaganda. France and Germany have already submitted their own, 8000 and 5 billion, respectively. You're probably late, as usual. Mrs Maroto, in an opinion article published this weekend, in a vain exercise to evade your responsibility over Nissan's closure, you claimed that Nissan's decision comes from afar. And one wonders, if this is true, did Mr Sánchez lie to all the Spaniards when he claimed, at the end of January, that he had met with Nissan's officials and that employment was guaranteed at the Barcelona plant? Did you lie, once again, Mr. Sanchez? Because either the closure decision was made a long time ago, as you said this weekend, or the decision was just the opposite when Mr Sánchez said, just three months ago, that the job was guaranteed. Both statements are incompatible and here someone lies or, I'm afraid, here they both lie. And if this is clear in the case of Nissan it is even more bloody in the case of the multinational Alcoa in Lugo. Mrs. Maroto, you've been fooling the company and the workers for over a year and a half. They have been fully aware of the real problem of the entire electro-intensive industry in our country for a year and a half: the lack of a regulatory framework that guarantees the price of stable and competitive energy that allows these industries to work on an equal footing with their counterparts in other European countries. The solution you offered more than eighteen months ago is the status of the electro-intensive industry. In this case they have had the loyalty and the sense of state of the People's Party that allowed them, with the approval of that decree in October 2018, to process the aforementioned statute. Or in November. And since that date, everything has been deceitful, excuses and deceitful to the workers. First, they would approve it in April 2019, as Mr Sánchez announced in La Coruña - in the middle of the election campaign - and then, as you announced - in the middle of the election campaign in November. They then launched an auction with conditions that far from lowering the price of energy to these industries, what it does is to make it even more expensive. And finally, they present a draft that does not satisfy anyone at all, the company, the workers or the administrations involved and that if approved would definitely mean the dot to an industry that gives employment to tens of thousands of Spaniards. They are in time to rectify, Mrs Maroto, they know the causes, they know what the instrument is and they know the real and effective solution, because the Xunta of Galicia, the employer, the workers and the governments of Asturias and Cantabria have agreed a document in the form of allegations to the draft statute of the electro-intensive industry that to get started would guarantee the survival of this primary processing industry in Spain and with it that of the thousands of jobs it provides. You also have the assurance of your approval, because Mr Casado has repeated this insistently and publicly: the People's Group will support these amendments. What's the only thing missing then, Mrs. Maroto? The only thing lacking in the will of the Government of Spain, only its will and that of Mr Sánchez to bet on our industry. If you don't, you know you're condemning the closure of those businesses and the unemployment of thousands and thousands of families. That's the truth and you know it, Mrs. Maroto. What I am wondering is whether you have the political weight to assert yourself in the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, I don't think so, and believe me I'd like to be absolutely wrong. After Alcoa's announcement we had three weeks ahead. You've already let the first one pass. Looks like they're having some meeting this afternoon. I beg you not to let go of the missing two weeks Be honest, tell the workers the truth, tell them. The solution already has it and, in addition, with the guarantee of its approval. They have no excuse to drop the electro-intensive industry, Mrs. Maroto. And, of course, I beg you not to trap the workers any more, as you did in the case of the plants in La Coruña and Avilés, when you were taking out breasts - today the President of the Government was taking out breasts - for having protected the sale of these two plants, that this guaranteed the employment and survival of the plants both in La Coruña and in Avilés and, however, after a few months, today no one guarantees the survival of those factories, much less the employment of their workers; as my companions, our spokespersons, Mrs Morales and Mrs Vázquez, have been denouncing him. I conclude by quoting again the president of the Bureau for the competitiveness of the industry that he affirmed here yesterday in Congress: The reduction of the price of light is an insult. If the electro-intensive status is going to be that of the last draft, you better leave it. Take note, Mrs. Maroto. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u219	Thank you very much. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u220	Thank you, President. Mr De Olano, the first thing I would like to say after your speech is that I am not going to allow you or your parliamentary group to hold the government responsible for industrial crises, and I repeat, I am not going to allow it. If something has been shown by this government - and I as the holder of the Industry portfolio - it is that we have not profiled ourselves when jobs are at risk for the closure of a company. On the contrary, we have started to work tirelessly to look for industrial alternatives. And we have always done so with the hands of trade unions and autonomous and local governments, because we know that unity of action makes us stronger. To give you an example, yesterday we held a meeting with officials of the Government of Catalonia, the Free Zone, mayors and social agents to analyze the situation arising from the announcement of the closure of Nissan plants. And we agreed, Mr De Olano - we agreed - to strengthen the unity of action, with the aim of reversing the closure and ensuring the continuity of the plants in Barcelona. And, as you said, a meeting is being held this afternoon with the Alcoa works council, with which, as you know, we have a permanent dialogue. Your Honor, this is the way this government works, dialogue, consensus and action, and I assure you that it has yielded results. The facts, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are that you dismantled the Ministry of Industry during the Rajoy government. It is difficult to understand that a Galician president did not consider industrial policy a priority in his government action, when Galicia is an important industrial pole. The lack of industrial policy, Your Honor, has its consequences. The facts, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are that, two years ago, the government of Pedro Sánchez established as a priority to place industry on the political agenda. It was essential to put an end to a prolonged period of institutional inaction. Ladies and gentlemen, you've wasted too much time. Our priority was to drive a paradigm shift in the relationship with industry. In the face of apathy dialogue, in the face of easy conformism constant work to modernize our valuable industrial ecosystem, in the face of crises not to profile and act. For two years now, the Government has demonstrated its commitment to industry and the maintenance of productive capacities and employment, especially in Galicia, through the strengthening of CO2 aid, the reindustrialisation plan, the promotion of the Statute of the electric intensive consumer and, as I said earlier, at European level through the defence of the border adjustment mechanism. I hear you and your party say that this government is hurting Galicia, Mr Barreiro said yesterday. Investing in Galician industry, Mr De Olano, more than EUR 114 million is harming Galicia? Is it not that Mr Feijóo is against the government, as is Mr Casado during this health crisis, who has preferred to fight the government than to fight the COVID pandemic? Today the People's Party is once again being portrayed by voting against the extension of the state of alarm, which is allowing, Mr Olano, to save lives and protect the health of the Spanish population. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there is no economy without health, there is no economy without health. Thanks to everyone's efforts over the past two and a half months, we have been able to contain the pandemic. Without this collective effort we would probably not be here discussing the measures we are going to take to reactivate industrial activity. We are aware of the economic and social impact of COVID, which you have not spoken about. That is why we have acted with determination and determination from the very beginning. He said that we have set up, Mr Olano, an ambitious safety net to prevent industrial failures, to maintain employment, but also to secure the incomes of millions of workers. Look, through the ICO line of guarantees we have provided funding to more than 500 000 companies. ERTE is protecting nearly three million teleworkers, of whom more than 300 000 are workers in the manufacturing industry. The Government, as you know, has set up a tripartite committee that will analyse and dictate this extraordinary support system in the most affected sectors, which will have more specific follow-up. With regard to the extraordinary termination benefit, which also entails exemption from social security contributions, more than 1 300 000 self-employed persons have benefited, of whom 80 000 are from the manufacturing industry. All these extraordinary measures, Your Honor, are supporting the industrial fabric and have as a priority objective that no one should be left behind. And you were talking about Alcoa. Indeed, he talks to me about the large electro-intensive industry, especially located in Galicia, and I tell him that it is essential for this government. You probably have not met any ministers who have met and been more concerned about the electro-intensive industry; I assure you. We have always advocated maintaining industrial capacities and preserving employment in these plants, but also supporting these companies to improve their competitiveness. Mr. Olano, do you know that the Xunta has exclusive competence in industrial policy? Do you have Galicia's Statute of Autonomy at hand? Read Article 30: exclusive competence in industry. I ask you the same question I asked your colleague Barreiro yesterday: What has Mr Feijóo done these years for the Galician industry in crisis? I tell you, nothing, you've done absolutely nothing. Because the People's Party is not interested in industrial policy, it has never been interested in it. That's why he doesn't exercise his skills in industry. Your Honor, you know that Alcoa has been going through structural problems for years, problems that now, as you rightly say, need to be resolved. In recent years, Alcoa has received millions of euros of public aid and we have demanded that it reconsider its decision. We expect you and your parliamentary group to work with the Government, with the mayors, with the social agents of the A Mariña region to defend the jobs that are at risk today. At this time, more than ever, unity of action and institutional loyalty is needed. Stop looking for culprits, ladies and gentlemen, and start looking for solutions. I hear you say many times - and you have said it again, Mr Olano - that the government has deceived the workers because we promise them a stable energy price. You can consult the hemerotheque, Mr. Olano. Minister Soria's promise. He committed himself on 1 January 2013 to this - I open quotes -: a system that would serve to guarantee Alcoa's competitiveness - 1 January 2013. An announcement made by Soria, yes, meeting with the company committee of the plant of San Cibrao on his land, in Lugo. Has Mr. Soria deceived the workers too, Your Honor? Look, the other day I heard Mr Feijóo say: Alcoa is a typical example of ideological energy policy. And for once I agree with him. It has the ideology of the People's Party, which, Your Honor, approved the current regulatory framework for the electricity sector. By the way, they created an expensive and inefficient system. But look, you were talking about Alcoa and the energy price. Do you know what the energy price is today in our country? I'm going to tell you, and it's data from the Spanish Association of energy-intensive companies, today it's 28.7 euros the gigavatium. [[Rumors]] This is the reality, and you tell me if we have a competitive price problem. I'll tell you how long this minister was when she came to the government: 2018, 57.3 euros the gigavatium. These are the facts and the rest are words. But, look, I would also like to refer to other Galician companies that have problems, Your Honor: does the Barriers shipyard sound like you? What answer did the Xunta, Mr. Feijoo, give to Barreras' problems? None, Your Honor. The Government, through the Cesce, has had to intervene to find a collective solution to end the ship; a solution in which do you know who the great absent was? The Xunta, Mr. Feijoo, as always. Let us talk about automotive, an industry that has shown, Your Honor, its competitive capacity in the face of the shrinking changes in supply and demand at global level. To talk about automotive is to talk about vanguard and innovation, of commitment also to decarbonisation. Look, in March 2019 we presented a strategic plan to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector, and what happened? He tells me: you promise and you promise. The political blockade during 2019 has slowed the implementation of this plan as many measures that this government has tried to push, but also, look, it has prevented the adoption of budgets that would be the support of this road map. You talk to me about industrial policy. Do you want me to tell you the rickish budgets this minister has to do industrial policy? Those who left me their predecessor of the People's Party in a 2018 budget that if anything is missing, it is industrial politics. [[Applauds]] That is the heritage of the People's Party in industrial politics, Your Honor. But, despite that, the sector knows that it has my personal commitment. In these twenty-four months I have visited the main plants of manufacture of Spanish vehicles; I have known the advances in electromobility and connected car; I have met, Your Honor, with those responsible for the main matrices and I have defended in Brussels the interests of the Spanish car. And in countries like the United States, Korea, China or Japan, I have transferred to potential investors the strengths of our ecosystem and the advantages of betting on sustainable and connected mobility by Spain. These are the facts and yours are words. [[Rumors]] I believe that in this bet the Government has acted as a containment dam in the face of the turbulence that has been agitating world car in recent months. Large companies do not approve of their global strategies overnight and it is well known, as you said, that Nissan had problems and structural problems before this government and minister came to his portfolio. In these two years we have had, Your Honor, more dialogue with the Japanese company than in the previous seven years; up to five times I have been speaking with the management of Nissan of Japan. But let's keep fighting. That was yesterday's message: unity of action. We will continue to fight to the end to defend the continuity of the plant and the maintenance of employment. Because, Your Honor, it is time to make a useful policy and provide solutions. The citizens are asking us for agreements mostly. The People's Party has so far decided to be insignificant in this crisis. He does not want to contribute and he wants to make an opposition like the one we are living in and that we are not seeing in any other country in our environment, the truth. Today, Your Honor, it is more necessary than ever, if I said it before, to have a pact for industry that recognizes the importance of this sector with high added value, with quality employment, innovativeness and export vocation. It is key that we agree on political forces, autonomous communities and social actors so that this commitment to industry will have stability, permanence and certainty. I hope that your group, Your Honor, is ready to join this challenge that our country needs so much. I'm finishing up. I told him that we are at the time of transforming our industrial capacities and strengthening the resilience of the industry to modernize our productive fabric, to bet on a more competitive and sustainable industry. As I have pointed out, we have acted with determination and speed to sustain the industrial sector and now it is time to put in place urgent measures to reactivate this activity as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Maroto, you were saying to me at the beginning of your speech: I do not allow you to hold me responsible. Man, if you want, I'm also responsible for Mr. Marlaska, but the poor man already has enough this afternoon, right? [[Applauds]] You tell me about Mr Rajoy and his industrial policy. When Alcoa went through trouble in 2012, you well know that Mr. Rajoy took advantage of a trip to the United States to meet the president of the multinational and got Alcoa to continue making aluminum in the Lucense Sea, until you arrived, you specifically. In the year and a half you arrive, Alcoa will stop making aluminum, Mrs. Maroto. And yes, I hold you, you and Mrs. Teresa Ribera responsible, which seems to be that with her you are not so aggressive - in quotes, understand me well - or you do not defend your thesis so strongly in the Council of Ministers, because in the end the workers know quite well that it is Mrs. Ribera, with her consent, who is going to charge Alcoa in the Mariña. [[Applauds]] And no company will come to produce aluminum to the Mariña until they have a stable and competitive price. When Alcoa went through problems with the People's Party, the People's Party solved them; when it goes through with you, Alcoa leaves. Those are the facts you were telling me; those are the facts, Mrs. Maroto. And you were talking about Feijoo. Ask the workers for Mr Feijóo, ask them, because these allegations to the status he has presented to the Xunta of Galicia are consensual with the workers, with the employer and with his colleagues in Asturias. They have agreed with your socialist colleagues in Asturias, who do defend industry and not you, Mrs Maroto. And yes, I make you personally and Mrs Ribera expressly responsible. The electro-intensive industry is being loaded in our country, absolutely. They'll have to close because of you and you know it, Mrs. Maroto. If by pure sectarianism you don't want to listen to the People's Party, do it to Mrs. Yolanda Díaz. Of course, because Mrs Yolanda Díaz even did a little bit, just until she joined the Council of Ministers, was defending exactly what I am saying to her: a stable regulatory framework that would allow for the competitive manufacturing of aluminium to the electro-intensive industry in Spain. Today he hides behind the walls of the Moncloa and is betraying the workers of Alcoa and his colleagues of Workers' Commissions, but, well, I understand that, as a minister, now he no longer cares so much about the Lucense Mariña and much less about the province of Lugo. I told him that if by sectarianism he does not want to listen to me, do so to his comrades of the Socialist Party in Asturias or to the lords of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, who have also signed with the Xunta of Galicia the necessary conditions for the continued production of primary aluminium in our country, Mrs Maroto. Pay attention to whoever you want, but to anyone who defends the maintenance of jobs and the primary industry in our country, who is carrying it to you. And yes, I do make you responsible. He spoke to me about Galicia and said why the Galicians feel outraged by this government. Mr Sánchez's government has been 18 months and I believe that no one in such a short time has ever done so much harm to Galicia. We have been robbed of 200 million of 2017 VAT, we have been robbed of 170 million euros that corresponded to us as a compliance community and have taken away tens of millions of euros for active employment policies. While you meet with the Generalitat - I think very well - to save Nissan's jobs, the Xunta of Galicia does not even get the phone, Mrs Maroto. Yeah, it's true, they don't even pick up his phone. And yes, I do make you responsible for what can happen to Alcoa. They have caused the thermal closure of As Pontes, condemning the districts of Ferrolterra and A Terra Tea. Many industries on the Galician coast have been put at risk by this amendment to the Coasts Act that they have in mind. But I will tell you one thing: as long as there are members of the Galician People's Party in this House, we will continue to tell you; we will not be the complicit silence of your fellow members of the Galician Socialist Party here and in Galicia or the crutches of using and throwing into which the Galego Nationalist Block has become. As long as there are Members of the People's Party of Galicia in the People's Parliamentary Group, we will continue to demand what is good for Galicia, for the Galicians and for the Spanish as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Olano. Next, to conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u224	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I'm going to tell you with all due respect. You have presented this inquiry because there are elections in Galicia, and it is lawful. He's not worried about the recovery of the industry, he's just worried about the ballot boxes. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I'll tell you again. I will not allow you and your group to hold this government accountable for the industrial crises. I would ask you where the Ministry of Industry was when you ruled this country for seven years. The industrial companies had no dialogue, they had no ministry to go to - that is also said by Mr Barceló when he comes to visit me - because, ultimately, there was no industrial policy. That's the reality. We all have a role to play in this crisis, Your Honor. We all have to live up to this delicate moment for our country. Parliament is fundamental and I believe that it is now up to us to be united. It's a complicated time for our country. Do you know what the People's Party's contribution to this health crisis has been? What you are going to do today: vote against the extension of the state of alarm with your party partners, with VOX. These are the facts, Your Honor. These are the facts. We are now in the midst of descalation and it is time to address measures for a sound, sustainable and inclusive recovery. This recovery therefore requires the participation of all: parliamentary groups, workers, businesses, autonomous communities and local authorities. The Government has proposed that we direct our proposals towards the general interest and has offered a pact of social and economic reconstruction to get the country out of the crisis as soon as possible and with the greatest strengths; a pact, ladies and gentlemen, to generate confidence, stability and certainty, which is what Spain and Europe need to start quickly, but also with the maximum health guarantees, economic and social recovery. Citizens, workers and businesses are asking us to reach broad agreements, and this is what we have to deal with now, to solve the problems. I hope that you will convince Mr Casado of the need to live up to the circumstances and that we will achieve that pact by industry in this Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction. Your Honor, it will not be a government pact, it will be a pact for everyone's industry, as has been the great agreements of this country that have persisted over time. I'm not going to insist on the arguments. You have yours and I have mine; I already told you that they are very good. The absence of industrial policy is undoubtedly its road map. Ours is to do industrial policy, but to do it with budgets that mark a road map and not with budgets where the absence of industrial commitments is clear; and I tell you this because I have to manage them. I repeat that this Government has an inescapable commitment to the industry in this country, to the automotive sector and to the large electro-intensive industry. You fix the Alcoa problem on the energy price. Read Alcoa's statement. It speaks clearly of an excess of productive capacity as a result of falling demand, but also of the price of aluminum, because you know that we are in a global market and are entering aluminum from China much cheaper. That is why I also ask your colleagues in the Galician Parliament to defend Mr Feijóo's industrial policy, because he has exclusive powers. Your Honor, of course I've reached out to you and met Mr. Feijoo. However, what I do not find is institutional loyalty, which I find in all the territories, starting with Castile and León, passing through Asturias and Andalusia and arriving at the Generalitat. What is involved here is saving jobs, what is involved here is that companies do not close down. You were talking about companies that have closed down and you were talking about the Vestas company. Do you know that we reached an agreement with the Board to save the jobs of Vestas and that we sold the plant to Network Steel? We did this with a People's Party government that believes that industrial policy is important and that has the support of the Socialist Party on the land where I was born, Castile and Leon. But you do not seek industrial policy to solve people's problems and what you do is accuse others of their own weaknesses. Industrial policy in capitals, Your Honor. Look, you were telling me that we have a horizon to work together. Your Honor, I'm holding hands with you. Let's work together to get a country project going. I think what we are being asked to do right now is to live up to the circumstances. We just passed an unprecedented pandemic and continued to reach out to him. Let's work together to carry out a country project. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gil Lázaro, on the basis of Rule 72(2), requests that the Journal of Sessions be read, and that is what we are going to do. However, I would like to stress that this Presidency understands that the debate that took place concerned two separate moments in the Journal of Sessions. In particular, the minister was referring to a debate between Mr.Egea and Vice-President Pablo Iglesias talking about the Duke of Ahumada and Narváez, and I think Mr.Gil Lázaro to another. However, we read out exactly what Mr Gil Lázaro is asking for. [[Mr. Gil Lazarus utters words that are not perceived]] You don't have the floor, Mr. Gil Lazarus. The secretary will read the Journal of Sessions, as requested, please. [[Mr. Gil Lazarus utters words that are not perceived]] You don't have the floor, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I repeat, you do not have the floor. The secretary will read out the request you have made.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u226	I read the text. Ladies and gentlemen, you have put an old civilian guard in the spotlight this morning. [[Rumors]] An order was disobeyed, so it seems that you are suggesting to the Security Forces and Bodies that you should attend to what you tell them,... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u227	Thank you very much, Secretary. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR, ON THE SERIOUS CRISIS OPEN IN THE FIELD OF CIVIL GUARDY BY THE LAST DETITUTIONS IN THE CITIZENSHIP, BY THE GENERAL POLICIES OF DETITUTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS TAKEN UP BY THE MINISTER AND, GENERALLY, BY THE GOVERNMENT BODIES TO THE OTHER TERMS OF THE FORCES AND SECURITY BODIES OF THE STATE DURING THIS HEALTH CRISIS. [[File number 172/000035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u228	We turn to the following point: Inquiries addressed to the Government. Urgent interpellation of the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of the Interior, on the serious crisis opened within the Civil Guard for the latest dismissals in the aforementioned body, for the general policy of dismissals and appointments carried out by the Minister and, in general, for the orders issued by the Government to the senior commanders of the State Security Forces and Bodies during this health crisis. For your defense, you have the word Mr. French Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, again. Good afternoon, Don Fernando. The facts are very clear. On 25 May, we proceeded to the dismissal of the head of the Madrid Civil Guard Command, Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos, and since then we have learned, we are learning from a series of news stories that are going to give us the press and that finally force you to have to explain yourself. These facts are that the previous Sunday afternoon the chief general of the Civil Guard of Madrid, José Antonio Berrocal, comes into contact with Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos and asks him to inform him about the performance that the Judicial Police is carrying out on an important issue for the Government of Spain, which is the investigation that the government delegate in Madrid, José Manuel Franco, has had regarding the authorization or denial of the demonstration of Women's Day, issue of political topicality that does not need to be explained. Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos refuses because he says - check - that the law says that the judicial police act under the judge's mandate and that, moreover, criminal investigation proceedings are secret, as you well know, because section 301 of the Criminal Prosecution Act says it, and that it will not do so. And then he receives a second call on Sunday evening from Lieutenant General Fernando Santafé with the same object, and the answer is the same: he is not going to do it, he is going to comply with the law. He then received a third call from the Director General of the Civil Guard asking for the same and even expressly indicating that it was a sensitive matter for the Government and that he should report the proceedings of the Judicial Police to the Government. And as Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos's answer is the same: that he will not do it because he is an honest man, it turns out to cease him. These are the facts. After that, we find other news such as, for example, that the State Attorney's Office is filing an appeal in that criminal case disregarding the task of the Civil Guard and saying that the report is incorrect, and unfortunately it turns out that this task of the Judicial Police is in the media and is known throughout the world. The first question I ask you is whether you share this view of the State Attorney's Office on the work of the Civil Guard as a judicial police within a criminal investigation, within a criminal summary. Do you think you are legitimized as Minister of the Interior to be able to say whether that action by the Judicial Police has been correct or incorrect? Does it not seem to you that the assessment of that opinion, of that report of the judicial police, falls within the legitimate competence of the investigating judge No. 51 of Madrid, who is conducting the investigation of the case? In the background, it beats something more important than the mere cessation of Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos, it beats respect for judicial independence and the separation of powers. Something would have to sound to you the concept of judicial independence when you and I met at the Central Court of Instruction 3 of the National High Court, before you ascended to the National High Court Chamber. Can you confirm that those calls we know were made through the press? Can you tell us if you asked for those calls? Do you find it justifiable to call a Civil Guard command for this purpose, to report on the performance of the Judicial Police? Have you investigated these calls? Have you investigated whether this may be an interference in the performance of the role of judicial aid? Do you know what object these calls had? Was it simple information about when the judicial report was due or did you want to stop the expert report on legal aid? They wanted to manipulate him? You wanted me to say something else? Because, indeed, it seems that, of the objective facts, these investigations of the Civil Guard in function of judicial police are not very favorable to the defense of the government delegate in Madrid, José Manuel Franco. Is that why it was a delicate report? Is that why you were so interested in knowing what you were going to say? And what matters most to me is whether you ordered the cessation of Diego Pérez de los Cobos or simply accepted the proposal we have heard from the newspaper, also from the Director General of the Civil Guard, who was elevated to the Secretariat of State for Justice, since he also holds, by the way, another magistrate? Because the facts seem very clear. It seems very clear, it seems very obvious, it seems very diaphanous that you wanted to defend the Government against a judicial investigation, knowing what the Civil Guard was doing, which depends on your ministry. This is what anyone thinks. You know as well as I do that a government can't get into a judicial investigation, that can't give instructions to the judicial police. You say you have lost confidence in Diego Pérez de los Cobos, but to those of us who know Diego Pérez de los Cobos this seems absolutely ridiculous. He is a person with an indefatigable curriculum, a person who has worked with four interior ministers of different political signs and a person who had the difficult task of establishing the coordination team with the Mossos d'Esquadra on October 1 and who had to make very difficult decisions to fulfil the mandate of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to ban the referendum. And you think of the absurd explanation, second explanation, that you're doing an ordinary remodeling; and yesterday, in the Senate, you say that what you're doing is investigating the leaking of that report; you didn't want to know it, you wanted to know who had leaked it. First of all, if it is a loss of confidence, you know that the contentious-administrative jurisdiction does not justify the cessation of an official simply on the basis of a loss of confidence, but you have to detail it, and if Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos resorts to it, I'm afraid he's going to win the appeal against his cessation. Secondly, you are talking about a remodeling. On Sunday afternoon, by phone, through three calls, do you remodel the Civil Guard dome, when until this morning it turns out that Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos has no substitute? Well, it seems a little improvised and strange, at least. Thirdly, if, finally, as you said in the Senate, what you are doing is investigating the leaking of a judicial report, my lord, you have no competence to do that! It should be the judge who investigates leaks from the judicial police reports. He's lying, he's lying and he's lying! Three times he lies! The truth is that we would like to know the truth; and it is that you, look, have ceased José Antonio Nieto, head of the Labor Risk Prevention Service of the National Police, because you were concerned about the national police; you have ceased Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, precisely because you do not want to violate the law; Lieutenant General Fernando Santafé, after Laurentino Ceña's resignation; and, quickly and running, you have committed the Minister of Defense to join the divisional general, Salas Moreno, in the category of lieutenant general. And you told me earlier in the question that in other cases neither the scale nor the criterion of antiquity had been respected. Look, I don't care about the other cases. Do you know why the escalator is respected? The escalator is respected so that politics does not put its departures in the political neutrality of the Civil Guard. That's why the escalator is respected. And I don't think it's good that others did it, you shouldn't have done it. He also stopped Manuel Sánchez Corbí, simply because he sent him an email saying that the UCO was paralyzed without money; he stopped the Director General of the Civil Guard, Felix Azon; he stopped the Secretary of State for Security, Ana Botella. I don't want to make any jokes with any Soviet dictator, but, look, in the Ministry of the Interior for years you are going to talk about Marlaska's purges, because you want to submit to the official; you want to submit to honest officials; you want to be servile officials. And his Government demonstrates the same with the Attorney General's Office, with the Attorney General's Office in the trial of the case; with the CIS; with Radio Televisión Española; with the EFE Agency. Don't you remember what the Constitution says, that the Administration objectively serves the general interests, with full submission to the law and the law? Have you forgotten how important it is to have a neutral and apolitical administration and that, moreover, it is the duty of the official to be apolitical so that you can better base your decisions and not be mistaken, how you are constantly wrong? He wants a servile administration. He wants to infuse fear of officials, who may lose their salary and the future of their professional career. How would you have felt about you having done this to him in your brilliant judicial career, Mr. Marlaska? I don't think you were a servile judge. I work with you; you fought ETA, we fought Batasuna. Do you also want servile judges as well as servile officials? Look, you're trying to get rid of the good name in Spain that the Civil Guard and the National Police have. Also when he forces General José Manuel Santiago to say that they are going to fight the bubbles against the Government, as if only the Government could report in this country; or when he overexposes the police commanders to hide the number of dead, the defective sanitary equipment they have bought or the absence of respirators. And you stand before, as a wall, good police officers to parapet the government in the face of criticism from the opposition. That's very innoble; very innoble. And then it turns out that in order to try to shut up the Civil Guard and the National Police, you say you're going to make wage equalization. First of all, don't call it wage equalization; you've got an audit report in a drawer that tells you what wage equalization is and what it costs; we want to know it, but you don't want us to know it. By the end of 2019, you tell us that until there are no budgets, there will be no more money for the State Security Forces and Corpses. It is managed, proposed, a popular legislative initiative is being processed and, in February 2020, the Government vetoes it for budgetary reasons, and there is no epidemic. And now we are waiting for the rescue of Europe and there is no longer a budgetary problem. Now we're going to water with money to see if I can get the silence of these officials. How little do you know these officials, how little do you know them! You know the phrase: honor is my currency. The honor is my currency is a phrase that in the mouth of Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos would make us all stand firm; in his mouth it would be a joke of very bad taste. You know that you have - and, by the way, you exercise - the right not to declare against yourself, because you now have practically the condition of investigation, because you want to obtain political benefits from the partisan use of the Civil Guard, because you stop honest officials, because you want to have servant officials; you do not protect prison officials - Citizens have submitted in all extensions of the state of alarm an amendment to consider authority to prison officials - and the fear that the President of the Government gave us this morning when he said that you are investigating the Patriotic Police, the same will be to build another Patriotic Police at his service. You have to resign, you have to do it out of dignity or wisdom. If you don't remember the dignity you had when you were a judge, do it out of wisdom, because you're screwing up so many times that you're finally going to force the president of the government to stop him. And I'm telling you, it hurts more than a quit, and if the quit is unfair, imagine what Diego Pérez de los Cobos must be thinking. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u230	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u231	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to deny all the inaccuracies that have been the subject of your presentation today. First of all, I will simply start by saying that some of the ceases are not of this minister, are of others responsible. Obviously, I assume them, such as that of police officer José Antonio Nieto, who had not met until he referred to me by third persons, but I will ask him to try not to use the names of public officials. I will try to customize as little as possible, because if we do not have to patriminate any institution, in this case the Civil Guard, we do not have to patriminate any of the public officials because we do not put them in a comfortable situation, because the loyalty of the public officials - of whom we are - is with the Constitution and is with the law. The principles of neutrality and impartiality, those are the main elements in the work of every public official, Mr Bal. When I became aware of the text of his interpellation, I was surprised by three things: first, the aggressive tone of his writing, and I will quote several intercomilated expressions: 'the purges of the minister; sectarian proceeding; suspected of endangering the reputation of the State Security Forces and Bodies for obtaining political benefits' - close quotes -. Mr Bal, you can and must disagree with the Government, it is very healthy when you are opposed, but believe me that insult, disqualification, hatred or exaggeration do not give any more strength to the arguments. Secondly, the set of biased information, because today when you say facts it seems to be something different than when you were talking about facts in your reports to the courts, because it bases them on different journalistic information. With all due respect to the media, the facts are something else. He tells us about phone conversations, which you even tell us as if you had been a part of them, reports accusations of persecution and purges in the Civil Guard. The implausible thing - being particularly serious in a person like you, which I presume is knowledge of the functioning of the State Administration - is that you say in your letter of inquiry - and also here today in your intervention - that in order to buy wills this minister made appear from night to morning the millions of euros necessary for the so-called wage equalization in the payrolls of the State Security Forces and Bodies, when the reality is that we are facing its third tranche of 247 million, which obviously took place in the Council of Ministers, but previously it had been processed for more than three weeks and, five days before, it was taken to the General Commission of Secretaries of State and Assistant Secretaries. [[The lady]] In addition, she seems to have a problem with Working Women's Day, and today she has demonstrated it again. When he speaks of the 8M he speaks only of the Working Woman's Day and forgets all the crowd events that took place that day; that day seems to have been nothing else. They only have something against 8 March and 28 June. Thirdly, I am sentenced to those facts and to those grounds because when there is hatred, when reality is manipulated, it inevitably takes a culprit, and I assume that responsibility. After reading his interpellation, I listened to the quotation recommended to every lawyer: to listen politely, in this case his intervention, and I have done so, as you have seen. And as that same quote recommends, let me answer you politely and tell you that your intervention has been to a certain extent, and I say it with all due respect, disappointing; with no arguments and full of prejudices, as if the text of the inquiry you recorded was the same as that of 28 May. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bal, as I have said on other occasions, repeating a lie often does not make it true. There is no political persecution, there is no arbitrary or contrary to the law, there is no sectarianism. The Ministry of the Interior of the People's Party, which you may still long for, which tried to influence judicial investigations and in which even custom police reports were carried out and leaked, has been left behind. What there is, Mr Bal, is a Ministry of the Interior with an unequivocally aligned project with respect for fundamental rights and public freedoms, committed to decent working and remuneration conditions for its public employees, committed also to the Security Forces and Bodies. And I'll give you some examples. The largest investment in security infrastructure has been made in the last ten years, with a plan of EUR 600 million, as the President of the Government recalled this afternoon. A Civil Guard Equality Plan has also been drawn up, the immigration coordination authority has been created, which reduced irregular entry into our country to 50 per cent, a Gibraltar Field Security Plan - has heard of the Gibraltar Field Security Plan, has it not? - which has entailed the recovery of authority in the area by the Security Forces and Bodies, and has also been given the means to deal with the cuts that had materialized, with a replenishment rate in the public employment offer of 115 per cent, as recalled by the President of the Government, with 2606 police stations and 2275 civil guards last year, in 2019, and we are already working, today, for the year 2020 on the same terms. If there is a progressive programme of government voted by the Spanish, - and this goes especially for their lords of the PP, of Citizens and of VOX - there is also this in the area of security and we have begun to comply with it. As is the case, Mr Bal, there is a legal framework which allows this Government, just like the previous governments, to form teams within the scope of possible and freely appointed appointments. The cessation you allude to and others are part of this process of renewal and impulse, of remodeling the Civil Guard management team in the positions of trust, but also, yes, it is part of the loss of confidence, and it was said since my first appearance in Moncloa: remodeling and loss of confidence. I refer to it, but I have added something more today by answering the questions; as your honor knows, trust is a key element in certain positions of free designation in the Public Service, positions for which trust is required, in which the highest levels of neutrality, capacity and professionalism are required, and trust is earned and lost at any time. In this particular case, Mr Bal, I would like to remind you of something very simple and in what I am sure we agree on; when the State Security Forces and Corpses are going to carry out any kind of operation, it is logical and normal for them to inform their superiors within the chain of command of the operation they are going to carry out, not of the content of the operation, not of the content, Your Honor, not of the content. Do you imagine an operation against a terrorist cell that will be developed tomorrow with entries and records and that the Minister of the Interior will not know it? I give you this and other examples because it is not the crime, it is the nature of the action, not the content of the action, nor the defendants, nor the specific entries and records, but the action being carried out. You will agree on a crucial point in this matter. It is not to be received that we filter judicial investigations where secrecy rules, as I have recalled today, and that they filter even when the procedural parties have not yet had knowledge because the filtration of such action has three serious consequences, which you know well: the first, defencelessness of the parties; the second - as a judge has always concerned me deontologically - parallel social trials, because all the leaks usually have an interest, not the objective interest of information, have an interest in directing the opinion - by the way, as the parallel trial that you are encouraging against me - and the third, and I think the most relevant, is that the leaks - also said this afternoon - are a constituent fact of crime, and I did not say that I am investigating. Whoever has to investigate the leaks is who has to investigate them, which is obviously the Judicial Police. What I have mentioned is the concern about the leaking of the Civil Guard Directorate and the Secretary of State for Security, which led to what eventually led to the failure to provide an adequate response. This minister does not ask for reports that make up the proceedings, does not ask for them, nor does he ask for access to their contents. What's more, I'd say I'm not interested. However, what this minister and his team expect and demand from all public officials is scrupulous respect for the law and the procedures. Therefore, given a contingency as indicated, an explanation is requested in the document taught by the President of the People's Party. And if there is no explanation of that performance and of that content happens what happens, the loss of confidence, with all respect for the professional career of the person concerned. We, I say again, did not go further because we do not want to affect the professional career, but we do not have the obligation, and as you have recalled, even if it is a position of trust, we must justify the fact of loss. That document is in accordance with that circumstance so that it can appeal the same, which you have not done in any case. Moreover, when you have responsibilities the diligence is necessary to correct - for that we are responsible - any dysfunction that may originate in the Administration, as is the case with the leaks. Acting in another way would not be consistent with the values of the Civil Guard, of which they want to patrimonialize. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Mr Bal, I would like you to explain to this House some things; how it is possible to make the 247 million of the 807 million euros appear by magic art and in record time, but above all, Mr Bal, I think that the whole House would be grateful if you could illustrate to us what are the reasons why this government, I insist, this government, is prevented from making appointments in positions of free designation in the same terms as the governments that preceded us, why we cannot at one time and in one case lose confidence in a post of free designation, because when you review the hemeroteca finds: Interior ceases the police dome of Pérez Rubalcaba, 11 January 2012; Zoido suppresses the figure of the deputy operational director of the Police and the Civil Guard, 27 July 2017. It is true that these are two decisions of the People's Party, not yours, although Zoido was a minister thanks to his parliamentary group. It is also true that you will be able to tell me that if you govern you would not do this sort of thing, but that when you look at where you govern and review appointments of free designation, you find, for example, that when you achieve the Citizens and People's Party investiture, 82% of the posts of free designation of the City of Madrid, among them, by the way, do you know who?, the Director General of the Municipal Police; or that when you access councils in Madrid, Murcia Region or Castile and León that formerly occupied your members of the People's Party, you cease and form teams by dismissing positions of free designation appointed by your partner. In our case, a cessation is a purge, political persecution, sectarianism, when not a possible crime.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u232	Minister, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u233	I'm finishing up. If necessary, removing 82% of the places of free designation in a municipality is to professionalise, as their press releases say. Mr. Bal, I invite you to enlighten us on this at the turn of the reply. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u234	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u235	Thank you, President. Don Fernando, truly, it is immeasurable to see you defend public officials; unbelievable, but truly immeasurable. You say that we are politically obsessed with blaming them for the fact that they did not ban the 8M demonstration because there were many mass events that week. Look, if it's not my obsession, it's an obsession with the judge of Instruction Court number 51 in Plaza de Castilla. I don't know, he's been seen a little bit by the plumber, because I believe that, in fact, what he's missed is that you also wanted the Civil Guard, acting as a judicial police, to tell that truth that it's his truth and only his truth, and that we've been constantly answered in the Chamber when we told them that they had to have banned the 8M demonstrations: that there were other crowd acts. Of course, maybe you made the calls to see if the judicial police report said that, man, there were also other mass events, the VOX congress, football matches, etc. Maybe that's why he missed the answer. He then tells us about his party's electoral program for the State Security Forces and Bodies, and continues to insist on remodeling. Sunday night's remodeling I think you'll take a letter of nature from the Civil Guard and the National Police, and Sunday night, instead of asking for a pizza and watching a movie, you'll be worried about all the officers of the National Police and the Civil Guard thinking they're going to remodel them, when it turns out you didn't even have the replacement, who you named this morning, Mr. Blanes. No one believes it, absolutely no one. He then tries to establish comparative terms with the knowledge of the role of the judicial police that they have no comparison: an operation against jihadism and a delicate operation where José Manuel Franco, the government delegate in Madrid, is accused, for a step by step of this government, which comes late and does not prohibit a mass act only for ideological reasons, which shows that there is a massive infection of the COVID-19 in Madrid. Are you really comparing these two terms to me? Do you think the ones we're listening to aren't ready? These comparisons are truly ridiculous. Then you make another comparison and tell me about the cessations that normally take place when governments change. But do you really want to tell me that the changes in government and the cessations that occur in the administrations of deputy directors general or directors general can be compared with the cessation of Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos, who receives an order that is illegitimate and that can involve real interference, a disturbance in the principle of the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary? Man, please use some arguments a little more solid and, of course, don't ask me, that the defendant is you. If you want to know how it stopped in the case you told the chief of the municipal police, you ask the corresponding officials. You ask him there, in those cameras. Perhaps you have to ask our common friend, Enrique López, who is the interior adviser of the autonomous community and who is also a judge, like you, although it seems that you believe something more than you do respect for the law. He tells me to explain to him the interest you may have in these cessations. He throws balloons out, says this is something of others, that he found out and assumes them, but that it was not his will. I have already explained it to you, but I repeat it to you: because you want a servile administration, because when you talk about the loss of trust and try to justify it as a normal thing, it is not; you take refuge in the loss of trust to scare the national police, the civilian guards and the honest officials who do not want to lose their job, their salary and their professional projection, so that the next time you give them an illegal order, they say: gosh, I'm playing it, I'm playing my family's livelihood. That's what you want to get with these arbitrary cessations. Look, the political neutrality of the Administration is like the independence of the judiciary, it must always be at the service of the general interests. I, when I got into politics, was very clear that those were the values that I was also going to defend here, what I have done all my professional career as a state lawyer, defending ministers of one or another sign, of the People's Party or of the Socialist Party; what Diego Pérez de los Cobos has done. Do you know what I'm telling you? That the day I leave here, I'll go with my head high, I'll have my name unharmed. You will not, you will have to one day return to the National Audience and you will find yourself very alone, because you have squandered your prestige, you have squandered your name; we only have our name as heritage. What are you going to say to our friends, the judges of the National High Court? What do you want to say? What do you want to say? What do you want to say to our friends, the judges of the National High Court? Think about it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u236	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u237	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bal, once again we are going to misrepresent, and I am not going to stop at all of your misrepresentations, but at some. Look, ladies and gentlemen, on the right side of the Chamber - excuse me, Mr Bal, who identifies you and your party, Citizens, with them, but it is difficult not to do so not only on the part of your speech, but also because they share different autonomous governments always supported by the extreme right, by VOX - if I were like you, I would have required my team to follow the trail of investigations, even if I tried to disrupt their development in some way. If my team or I were like you, we would have had the report before the judge, before the journalist to whom someone leaked it by breaking the parties' right of defence. If my team or I were like you, we wouldn't have been worried about the leak because I'm sure we would have had some intervention, always for the purpose of instrumentalizing the instruction and trying to spell out the truth. But since neither my team nor I are like you, after communicating to the chain of command of the Civil Guard - as is usual - the initiation of investigations, we did not ask any questions, no specific follow-up and no less consideration. As in any other investigation, he was expected to comment on what the officers understood to be relevant, if they understood it. As neither my team nor I are like you, I was concerned about the fact of the leak as to what I could imply for the Civil Guard's credit and what could harm the same investigation, as I said. As neither my team nor I are like you, when something like this happens, an explanation is required, never for doubting the professional merits of anyone - I repeat - but because the appearance of impartiality and neutrality matters to us, and much, not obviating that it is a legal requirement and because it is necessary to make assessments of what happened when something like this happens, always trying to improve if there were any security gaps. As neither my team nor I are like you, and following, as I said this afternoon, the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court - and which you have recalled -, even if it is a position of trust, we justify the loss of it; I remind you that it has been demanded. In the case before us, perhaps with an wording in which, of course, there was a double interpretation for anyone who had a bad intention, for, of course, someone without any scruple, as I said this afternoon. We run the risk not only of being honest, that we are, but also of being honest. You - and I'm sorry to tell you - at most you only aspire to the last, just to look like it. As I am not like many of you, from the Ministry of the Interior I will continue to build bridges - and we will continue to do so - that will enable us to move forward in the construction of a more free and secure society, where we can all exercise our rights, Mr. Bal, and where our Security Forces and Bodies can count on the necessary means, as I have previously stated. I like opponents who help to grow, who build us all up, confronting ideas, always with the aim of improving the social conditions of citizens, because, as in life, difficult situations come to make us better. Not even situations like the ones we are experiencing as a health emergency and their consequences lead you to change that frantist stance that you even show. You, as I have said, do not bring anything except destructive criticism, but my team - and that other part of the Chamber, the one on the left - do just the opposite. And for now, we are winning you and I will do everything possible because it remains so, and that you will also be joining that consensus little by little. I'm not fooling myself, don't fool me either. What I am going to say is not taken as any personalization, I do not want customizations of public officials - and it refers to what the President of the Government has said - my team and I are suffering to some extent - and for some time now, not now - the consequences of these last two years, the consequences of trying to dismantle what the PP had converted into the Ministry of the Interior. That's why we're not forgiven. Do you know how I carry it? With the understanding of those who know that they are doing the right thing for the Ministry of the Interior, for the National Police, for the Civil Guard and for all Spaniards. And you know how? With the same integrity of other times and which you constantly remind me of, with the same integrity. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal, stood up.-Applause from the Minister of the Interior, Grande-Marlaska Gómez]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]] ACTS RELATING TO THE STATES OF ALARM, EXCEPTION AND SITE. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - Application for authorisation of the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March for the state of alarm for the management of the state of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by the Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, 492/2020 of 24 April, 514/2020 of 8 May and 537/2020 of 22 May. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. Voting on the request for authorisation of the extension of the state of alarm. Voting of the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March; 487/2020 of 10 April; 492/2020 of 24 April; 514/2020 of 8 May and 573/2020 of 22 May. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 92 plus 258 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 46 plus 131 telematics votes, 177; against, 42 plus 113 telematics votes, 155; abstentions, 4 plus 14 telematics votes, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-03-CD200603.u240	The extension of the state of alarm, which will be published in the State Official Gazette, is therefore authorised. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the remaining items on the agenda can be voted on by telematics from 19:15 to 12 noon tomorrow. The vote on these points will take place at the end of tomorrow's sitting. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and ten minutes in the afternoon. [[*******page with picture **********]]
