ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u2	Mr Sánchez, how do you intend to protect the Spaniards by opening up an institutional crisis? You promised to keep and keep the Constitution loyally to the king, but once again you lied. He has been disloyal for two years, tolerating his Government's attacks on the head of State. Look at these statues. [[Marks the sculptures of the Catholic Kings behind the presidency of the House]] Spain and its monarchy have guaranteed our historical continuity in the last five centuries, and forty years ago the Spaniards democratically elected it as the political form of the State, and almost six years ago these General Courts proclaimed as our king, that of all, Don Felipe VI. The monarchy was voted in the same referendum that legitimized this Parliament and the Government as State institutions. Despite its vetoes, justice is administered in the name of the king, who is a symbol of the unity and permanence of the Spanish nation. And we are not the only ones: of the twenty most advanced democracies in the world, seven are parliamentary monarchies; by the way, that list does not contain any dictatorship of those who finance their partners or those which Mr Borrell wears. Mr Sánchez, if you want to change the regime, what you have to do is present a constitutional reform and not continue to subvert legality cowardly through the back door. What happens to them is that they know that they would need the votes of the People's Party and that we would never tolerate it, because we are their dam of containment. [[Rumors]] Perhaps that's why your vice president fantasizes about liquidating the political alternation; yes, the one who said it would never be his government's because it would take his dream away, take us to the ration books and to the lack of democracy, and that's where he is. Perhaps that is why it allows the independenceists to say yesterday that they are going to the democratic breakup; yes, those they wanted to imprison with the crime of illegal referendum and those they now want to pardon. Maybe that's why he was talking about prisoners who were in Bildu's office; yes, those about whom he was so upset that he was asked if he was going to make a deal with them. And maybe that's why he's throwing at his spokesman to say that I'm doing a constitutional rebellion; yes, that ERE advisor from Chaves who should never be a minister if you complied with your false code of ethics. Mr Sánchez, if you have any institutional dignity left, stop your radical government and break with your partners, who are already threatening legality with another blow. And all this in the midst of the pandemic, taking advantage of the social shock to advance in its constitutional desertion. But the problem is not the Constitution, nor the monarchy, nor Europe, nor the municipalities, nor the autonomy, nor the opposition; the problem is you, who are degenerating the institutions and ruining the Spanish by a handful of votes. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Casado, at last, I am not going to enter into the weekly provocations that you pour into your parliamentary speeches; I am going to focus on the question that you have posed to this House and to my person, and it is precisely if this Government protects the future of the Spaniards. And I tell you radically that yes, we protect both the present and the future of the Spaniards. But we protect you from real threats, not the fictitious threats that you invent in this House in your speeches. We protect, for example, the Spaniards in the present and in the future by extending the ERTE, as we did yesterday through an agreement with the social partners until 31 January. We also protect self-employed workers by extending the cessation benefit. We also protect our institutions by demanding the main opposition party to abandon the blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court. We also protect the institutions and the European project by agreeing last July on a very important package of a recovery fund that will involve EUR 140 billion over the next six years not only to improve our country's economic conditions, but to make our economy much more resilient in the ecological and digital transition. In short, Your Honor, we are protecting the present and the future of the Spaniards. What are you doing, apart from insulting, Your Honor? What are you doing during this unprecedented time that you are living Spain and the world? Apart from insulting, Your Honor, you invent fictitious threats. You come here and stand up as the defender of the Crown, the defender of the Royal House. Go carefully, Your Honor, for before you stood up in the so-called defenders of the unity of Spain in the face of Catalan independence and see how we ended, Your Honor! See how we're done! [[Applauds]] Therefore, do not follow that path or constantly use hyperbole in your interventions, Your Honor. I can only ask you what I offer, and what I offer, Your Honor, is unity; unity, for example, to institutions and autonomous governments. Take, for example, what happened yesterday in the Community of Madrid. We have reached an agreement, which I think is very important, which is going to take place today in the Interterritorial Council precisely to... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN RECONSTRUCTION FUNDS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000290]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u6	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo from the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u7	Good morning, Mr. President. I ask you about the management you intend to make of the European programs Next Generation. It is an important issue and a real organizational challenge, of which we have very little information and confusing news today: on the one hand, from Europe, which delays final approval, and it seems that the German Presidency links its approval to that of the European budgets; on the other hand, on seven defined areas, in which the limited emphasis on the industrial sphere is surprising; and on the other hand, Spain has to submit a preliminary draft, starting on 15 October. Who's in it? There are news that talk about Economy and news that talk about Moncloa; contradictory news. What reforms will be committed? What investments will be prioritized? What will be the coordination and participation of the different actors? All this because there are worrying precedents in the management of the European Structural Funds: nothing more and nothing less than those for the period 2014 and 2020 have only been implemented 30%.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u8	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Esteban, for your question. We have held various Conferences of Presidents with the various autonomous leaders and we are also doing internal work in the Council of Ministers precisely to address the governance of this new instrument at Community level. I also had the opportunity last week to meet with the President of the European Commission. To the autonomous presidents at the last Conference of Presidents I transferred that the will of the Government of Spain is to co-govern these funds. Why? Because there are many skills that have to do with, for example, urban renewal, housing rehabilitation, sustainable mobility, which are in the hands of the autonomous communities and also uniquely of the municipalities. What is the governance scheme that we are going to propose? Firstly, a follow-up unit, which will be set up precisely in Moncloa, because we want to give that prevalence, that institutional political importance to the management of the funds; secondly, an interministerial committee, which will logically be chaired by me; thirdly, a sectoral conference, in which the autonomous leaders will participate and will lead the finance minister, and, finally, of course, we will be accountable to your ladies and gentlemen in this Parliament, and we will logically propose that it be the Joint Committee of the European Union Congress-Senado that can assess the management of the funds. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u10	Mr. Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u11	Basically, Mr. President, three messages. First of all, on that perch you have to present and from which you will then have to hang the concrete programmes and plans, industry must have a relevant presence if it is to be truly transformative and lay the foundations for a different economy for the future of the country. That perch must therefore be very much in the industry's mind. Secondly, the Government cannot and should not manage these programmes and plans exclusively or almost exclusively. It must have autonomous communities for design, but also for management if you really want to go beyond the big company, if you want to penetrate the fabric. And the projects must be those that change the productive model and where there is enough tissue to carry them out; otherwise, we would be wasting that help. I think clusters are fundamental in all of this. And thirdly, Mr President, if we want to be effective, we need to legally articulate specific new legislation to deal with all this, because as the current legislation is, we would never get there, it would be a real bottleneck. You have to be imaginative. Moreover, I hope that, if they do, it can serve as a future management model. We must be effective, we must bet on what it can transform and we must also manage the autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u12	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u13	Thank you, Madam President. We agree, Mr. Esteban. We agree that we need to speed up the implementation of these funds, and we are therefore going to propose a revision of the basic legislation to ensure such early implementation. Secondly, we agree on the importance of industry. Thirdly, we agree on the importance of co-governing these funds and, therefore, counting on the autonomous communities. I would like to make the following announcement to you, Your Honor: when last week I had the opportunity to meet with the President of the Commission, we will be holding a Conference of Presidents at the end of October or at the beginning of November, with the presence of the President of the European Commission and all the presidents and autonomous presidents, precisely in order to talk about the recovery fund that will be presented by Spain, which we hope will have the support of your ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? IN THE CHAIR: MR MERTXE AIZPURUA ARZALLUS OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: IS IT COMMITTED WITH PROGRESSIST BUDGETS SUPPORTED BY THE MAJORITY OF INVESTIGATION? [[File number 180/00289]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u14	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u15	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, do you want to protect the workers and their rights? I hope so. Do you want to expand social rights, create quality jobs, bet on ecological transition, secure decent housing, advance social justice, boost industry, support equality measures? I hope so, too. In short, do you want to defend and expand the rights of the working social majority? If the answer is yes, it will need to implement bold new policies, determined to give people back some of the rights and dignity that the right has taken away from them for so many years. And he knows that this will require progressive budgets that mark a new direction for this State, for the peoples living in it and, above all, for the workers, both Basques and the rest of the State. And as we like to be clear, I will tell you that we are sure that if that is your bet you will be able to count on a majority of left and progressive in this House. That is why I ask you for the same clarity and I ask you: are you committed to progressive budgets supported by the majority of the investiture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u16	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua, for your question. I believe that the Spanish Government has been quite clear about the budgets that Spain needs and is going to put forward by the Government; budgets that have to be progressive because this is a progressive coalition. Sometimes we lead the debate to absurdity. I understand that the budgets proposed by a progressive coalition will be more progressive than the budgets on which we are working, which were approved in 2018 by an old majority - fortunately, not present in this Parliament -, the majority that Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro, as Minister of Finance, have already passed some legislature. From the point of view of the contents and the proposal, it is clear, Your Honor, that we will have, at least in the proposal, progressive budgets. And we're already doing it. With the budgets of Mr Montoro's former Government, we have had a vital minimum income, which we have budgeted at EUR 3 billion; we have had aid, I believe, which is extremely important, for the survival not only of companies but also of workers, the ICO lines, with almost EUR 140 billion; we are going to be investing approximately EUR 1 billion a month to extend the temporary employment regulations to workers until 31 January; also the benefits for cessation of activity to self-employed workers; also, Your Honor, everything that has to do with equality and ecological transition; very few days ago in the Council of Ministers we approved our country's Climate Change Adaptation Plan. In short, the Government governs. Not only is it giving an effective response to the pandemic, but it is also launching its road map. We live in extraordinary circumstances. I think we can all agree that we are living in extraordinary circumstances, which require extraordinary agreements. That is why the Spanish Government is doing what it is doing is to appeal and summon the whole of the House. There are parliamentary groups which, of course, are self-excluded: the far right has clearly been self-excluded, the People's Party has also been self-excluded in any way to help the governance of our country. But I hope that there will be a parliamentary majority in this Congress that connects with the feeling and emotion of citizens, who want, regardless of what they vote, to have new budgets to give an effective and effective response to the reality we are living in. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u18	Mrs. Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u19	Mr Sánchez, social and progressive budgets are not possible with the right, they are not possible with those who segregate neighborhoods by social class, with those who defend the rich while slashing and insecure citizens, they are not possible with those who - whether with the acronyms PP, VOX or Citizens - agree and carry out the same policies. You have seen it in many votes this week. It is not a question of cross vetoes, but of cross policies, because the privileges that the Right wants for a few are incompatible with the rights that the Left wants for the many. You know it and that's why you have to choose. He knows we have a word, we do what we say and we say what we do. That is why today I want to show you our willingness to dialogue and, if necessary, agree on budgets that are good for the social majority and make us move forward. A tremendous crisis is coming and people must be protected. You can't leave it to the right or a loophole to make life precarious again. We are here to improve the lives of Basque citizens and also to try to dignify life...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: HOW DO THE NEGOTIATIONS OF THE SECOND SECOND Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030 FOR APPROVING NEW GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/00311]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u21	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u22	Mr Sánchez, you leave Parliament today without defending the king or the Constitution. Have you compared the parliamentary monarchy to independence? How can you fall so low? The insults to the king and the pardons to the independenceists; regrettably. Mr. Churches, you understand very well. You have been saying for several weeks that the People's Party will never rule Spain. And what you really want to say is that you're going to do everything you can to keep screwing the chair. Carmena used to say that, too. Look carefully at this bench: the People's Party and Pablo Casado are Spain's hope, today the People's Party is the alternative to the failed government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias. You talk all day about holding hands, also in budgets. But you're more of a hand-lifter. And if not, let them tell their number three, Alberto Rodríguez, that it is to raise his hand to the police and is in the Supreme waiting for him to be called to testify. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Between you at the National Audience and your people at the Supreme, you could assemble the meetings of Podemos between trial and trial, and also call the Secretary of State for Tourism, accused. Mr. Churches, why are you talking so much about VOX? Sánchez is the first president of democracy to openly ask - two weeks ago - for a motion of censure. You without VOX are nothing, and you know it. Everything is worth keeping in power. Focus on saving lives and jobs. More PCR and less CDR. How are the budgets, Mr. Churches? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u23	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I do not know, Mr. García Aegean; it is you who govern thanks to the far right. In response to your question, formal negotiations on budgets have not yet begun. As you know, Minister Maria Jesús Montero and Secretary of State Nacho Álvarez are working on a draft. When that document is in place, we will be introduced by the President of the Government and I and the formal negotiations with the groups will begin. Thank you for your question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u25	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u26	Mr Iglesias, gentlemen of the government, say, with absolute disloyalty, that they are going to take over health care in Madrid. And Aragon's? What about Catalonia? What about La Rioja? What about Navarra? They all have worse numbers. And what control are you going to take? Those who buy masks that don't work, those who buy fake tests, those who have ghost expert committees, those who ignore the risks, those who send people to manifest themselves risking their lives in demonstrations like 8-M, and those who don't know or tell our dead? [[Protests]] They don't cheat on anyone anymore. Madrid fights against the virus and you fight against Madrid. That's why Madrid is Ifema, the management of schools and the struggle to avoid the Barajas collage. And you are going to be remembered by the 8-M, by the abandonment of senior residences and by the eateries in the Salamanca neighborhood. Mr. Churches, you have shown that the best way to end a revolutionary is to make it rich. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u27	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Aegean, I listen carefully to your Baroque speech and I am grateful that the president of your party has a clearer speech. I think we should clarify some things about the functioning of democracy and what institutional respect means. The other day Mr. Pablo Casado said something that he has been reflecting on me ever since. [[Rumors]] He said: The Spaniards have voted for Philip VI, but we have not voted for Pablo Iglesias and Alberto Garzón. Apparently, this would be stupid, but the president of your party is no fool; if he says something like that, he's saying it for something. And I've been thinking about it and I've heard your speech today and it's very interesting. It has claimed the monarchy, but not so much the parliamentary one, but that of the last five hundred years. And that has a meaning. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yes, he has said so, he has claimed the monarchy in the last five hundred years in Spain, and that has a very interesting significance, which is basically the problem that you have. For you, the foundation of sovereign power is not Parliament. [[Protests]] That is why Mr Casado says that Felipe VI has been voted on and yet not the members of this House. Do you know what the problem is with that, and it's a very interesting approach? Which is anti-democratic and unconstitutional. And let me give you some advice. You are doing a great deal of damage to the parliamentary monarchy. [[Protests]] When you use the parliamentary monarchy to shield yourself and try to politicize the judiciary, you are doing it a lot of damage. When you, ladies and gentlemen, identify with the ideas of the right to the monarchy in this country, you are taking away years of life. Forgive this Republican recommendation: Don't do us the job, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u29	Quiet, please. Is that what you're talking about? IN THE CHAIR: MR VOX Vice-President OF THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND Agenda 2030: Should you interpret yourself as a wish or as a threat to the affirmation of the Vice-President of the Second GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS and Agenda 2030 on the grounds that the opposition will not return Forming part of the Council of Ministers? [[File number: 180/00303]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u30	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iglesias, you and your party have brought nothing of value to Spanish democracy; on the contrary, you come to demolish a series of consensuses that have formed the legal architecture of what our democracy is. And in the meantime hatred and resentment, which is what you have really brought in, you said last week that the opposition will never again be part of the Council of Ministers, and this is a really worrying issue, because it reminds me of at least two things: one was what the Bolivarian Hugo Chávez said, of which you are so follower, with your 'never again to govern', that for now it is being fulfilled in that way that you so much like, and can also remind us of what the Passionary said to Calvo Sotelo a few years ago: 'You have spoken for the last time', and shortly after he was murdered. Is what you said last week part of a wish or is it a prognosis? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u32	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, although we have very different ideas, I consider you to be a very intelligent person and I think you could have done a more level intervention than you have done. I'm just going to answer your question. It wasn't a threat, it was a wish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u34	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u35	Mr. Vice President, there are people who are impressed by your attacks, there are people who are impressed by your display of hatred and resentment. Not VOX and I either, because we've already known you for a few years on some TV sets, where we disassembled all the theories I was telling elsewhere, because you don't know the economic structure and functioning of a country like Spain. You are a real fraud, you are a fraud because you represent everything you say you hate: you say you hate IBEX 35 and then you take smiling pictures with them; you attack the rich and families who buy big houses and then you do exactly the same; you attack those who pose in magazines as if they were the real family and that's exactly what you do next. A real fraud. We're not fooled anymore. Those who really attack you are the workers, those who say they represent but call Lumpen, and laugh at them because they say they don't read enough, and that even though you haven't earned a decent newspaper in your life. They no longer deceive anyone at all, let alone the workers. Do you know what's going on? That in the end the maximum is fulfilled: A little pasta is enough for you to be part of the caste. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u36	Mr. Second Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I really expected something more level. [[Rumors]] You have spoken in your first threat intervention, and you threaten. They did it the other day from their VOX account saying they'd have to kick the first secretary of the Congress Bureau in the ass and send him back to Argentina. The first secretary of Congress is a grandson of Andalusians who had to emigrate fleeing the persecution of the dictatorship that you claim as a government preferable to the present. The first secretary of Congress is the son of a lawyer murdered by the Argentine dictatorship. And let me tell you that none of your deputies reach the sole of their shoes in terms of democratic commitment to Gerardo Pisarello. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, are the party that promises kicks in the ass; kicks in the ass to migrants, kicks in the ass to Republicans, kicks in the ass to feminists, kicks in the ass to Basques and Catalans. You know what? Moving from promises to deeds requires something you lack: guts, lordship, guts. [[Rumors]] There is an enormously cruel and certain Castilian saying: barking dog, little biting dog. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND AND MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE SECOND MINISTRY OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS CREATE AND AGENDA 2030 THAT WITH HIS WORK IS HELPING THE CONFIDENCE OF THE SPAIN IN THEIR GOVERNANCES? [[File number 180/00308]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u38	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García from the Citizen Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Churches, the trust of the citizens in their rulers is on the ground. And I want to ask you: Do you personally think that you, as Vice-President of the Government, are helping during this pandemic to solve the serious problems that citizens have?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u40	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, thank you for the question. Honestly and assuming the mistakes that he has made, I believe that this Social Vice-President, with the work of coordinating the social policies of the Government, has contributed to the construction of a way out of the economic and social consequences of this crisis completely different from that which took place after the 2008 crisis. Modestly, I believe that we have contributed to the guiding principle of government policy being the defence of the general interest, which, in my view, is the most important constitutional value. And let me return the question: Do you believe that they generate trust by governing with Ayuso in Madrid with the support of the ultra-right? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u42	Mrs. Arrimadas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u43	You have to have the face of cement armed to ask us that when you rule with Bildu, with gentlemen who have not even condemned terrorism. I will tell you what you have done - because I was asking for you - during this pandemic apart from watching many television series, that I don't know how you have so much time the truth. While all the Spaniards were applauding the work of the health workers, you were urging them to make pancakes by confronting the Spaniards and attacking the head of state. While we have more than fifty thousand dead in our country, you encourage us to make money against any government that is not of its political colour. While more than a million jobs have been destroyed in our country in a few weeks, you have done two things: one, you have not stopped attacking judges who investigate corruption that stalks your party and, two, you have risen your salary - of course not - and attacking justice by trying to divide it as a good classic political caste of all life, in which you have become astoundingly quick. While families worry about returning to school, you worry about giving privileges to your partners, giving pardons and penal discounts to separatist politicians convicted of embezzlement and sedition. All of us will be judged by what we have done during the pandemic. Despite the fact that you are in the Government and that you have been the worst in managing this pandemic in the world, we have been responsible and have proposed, negotiated and carried out measures that we know have saved lives and jobs in our country, because we always defend the general interest and we will continue to do so. But you are taking advantage of the pain and weakness of Spain during the pandemic to try to impose your sectarian ideological agenda to attack the king and to turn our country into a banana republic controlled by you. But, look, I'm going to repeat a phrase I told your separatist partners many times during the 2017 coup: luckily for Spain and unfortunately for you, Spanish democracy is much stronger than you think. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u44	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, I thank you for two things, I thank you for the tone and I thank you for the sincerity. You have not failed to say, and that is what you said in your speech, that your political objective is to change the direction of the coalition government. That is legitimate and it is good that you say so, but, Your Honor, in politics we must choose; being in politics we cannot bet on strengthening public services and, at the same time, on privatization. You have chosen, ladies and gentlemen. He's going to let me read something from someone you admire a lot, President Macron. He said: We must relocate and strengthen the production forces in our own territories. Health and industrial sovereignty will be one of the pillars of the reconstruction plan. If this is what we say, you say this is social-communism, but this is what Mr Macron is saying. And I will read you something else, which also comes from the French Presidency: Any alliance with the far right is very serious. A common platform between citizens and the far right would call into question political cooperation to form a renewed centrist group in the European Union. It is not an anecdote, it is one of our great concerns, France will not be pleased with these approaches. You, ladies and gentlemen, have chosen, and you have chosen to rule with the support of the ultra-right. I have to inform you with the best tone and with the best disposition that the path of the coalition government is going to be very different from yours, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - THE DEPUTATE DON MARIO GARCÍES SANAGUSTÍN, IN RESTITUTION OF THE DEPUTATE DONE CONCEPTION GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE SECONDARY THIRD AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC MATTERS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: IS THE VICEPRESSENT THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC MATTERS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION IN WHICH ECONOMIC RECOVERY IS ALREADY ON THE MARKET? [[File number 180/00310]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u46	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. It was not necessary three mountains, Mr. President, it was enough three words: live the king!, and you have avoided saying it. But I am not surprised when we listen to the second Vice-President of the Government appeal to the guts, the government is ruled by guts; it is governed by intelligence and humility, something you obviously do not know. But I am convinced that the Vice-President of the Government will come out in defence of the constitutional monarchy, as it cannot be otherwise. Madam Vice-President, when a government is to be judged, it is judged by the results, by the data, and of course there is no comparison plan in which one can see how the Spanish economy, the economic fabric and the social fabric are crumbling. You know perfectly well that we are now falling, according to the second quarter of this year, by 21,5 %, which is the worst fall of the 27 countries of the European Union. We are at the tail of the countries of the European Union. If you look back, there's no one. And this is not a fragmentary fact, as I said the other day with little prudence in the rostrum, it is a real fact, Madam Vice-President of the Government. There is no one behind, and when there is no one behind, it is that we are, directly, the worst and are in the hands of the worst government. But if we look at it on the temporal plane, it's the worst quarterly fall in the historical series. The worst quarterly falls took place in 1993 and 2008. Do you know who was Minister of Economics then? Pedro Solbes. You're doing Pedro Solbes good. You are an insubstantial replica of Pedro Solbes. But the worst is not there, the worst is in the destruction of employment. Spain is destroying employment at a rate of 7.5%, triple the European Union's job destruction. Do you know that we are also the last country in the European Union? And I'll tell you what. With regard to its militant feminism, remember that more female employment is now being destroyed than male employment. That would be their main contribution to equality in this country and, unfortunately, it does not. And what's going on? That you will appeal to your shoulders. Look what shoulder you have on the left! The shoulder of totalitarian culture, the shoulder with which, every time it speaks and exercises its verborreic power, there is a constant loss of capital. Obviously, that way we will not be able to prosper in this country. I'm asking you something. I'm asking you to at least give up. Look at what Pedro Solbes said in 2008. Pedro Solbes said he was wrong. He recognized it in an act of contrition. He said he should have left that train. You have the possibility to leave this train or, at least, to leave it the driver, who has it in the corner, and, of course, his travel companion, who is the worst travel companion in this kind of adventures. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u48	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u49	Thank you very much, President. As I had the opportunity to explain in detail last week, Mr Garcés, all the bodies foresee an intense growth of the Spanish economy, more than 10%, in this third quarter of the year. The economic recovery is under way, but we have to control the rebounds, we have to put the recovery plan in place and we have to approve the General State Budgets for the year 2021 as soon as possible if we are to continue on this positive path. Mr. Garcés, every week I try to urge you to have a constructive attitude and to leave personal insults, and there is no way. Let me share with you today three principles that guide us, to see if they inspire you. First of all, we must act rigorously, and that begins with a good diagnosis of the situation and, above all, by abandoning miraculous solutions, such as that kind of magical tax reduction, which for you is a balm of Fierabras, which solves everything. [[Rumors]] Secondly, dialogue, seeking maximum consensus, that social dialogue that allowed us to pass last week the teleworking law, which allowed us this week to extend ERTS and support to the self-employed. I sincerely hope that your party will support them when the validation comes here in Parliament. Thirdly, to defend the general interest with loyalty, to work intensively to defend the interest of Spain, the image of Spain, protecting, as the President of the Government said, the present and future of the citizens. That is defending the general interest, and not, as it seems to be dedicated to making its boss, raising doubts about our country among European partners, when we are, as Mr Esteban said, at such a delicate time in the negotiation of European recovery funds, which are so important to our country. Your Honor, I think it's obvious, but I'm going to repeat it. Patriotism does not consist in waving flags or shouting. Long live the king! Patriotism consists in working to defend the general interest of all citizens, just the opposite of what you are doing, which has many names and none of them is beautiful. So, once again, let me urge you to tie your shoulder and stop putting sticks on the wheel, to see if we all promote recovery for the good of all, for the good of Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES YOU WANT TO GUARANTEE THE ENTERPRISES OF LAW IN ALL THE NATIONAL TERRITORY? [[File number 180/00304]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u50	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, are you willing to guarantee the rule of law throughout the national territory?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u52	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Olona. Obviously, and through the State Security Forces and Corpses, in coordination with all the ministerial departments and all the institutions and all the other powers of the State, our will and firm commitment is to ensure the rule of law and the exercise of rights and freedoms by all citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u54	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u55	Mr. Second Vice President, in VOX, the kicks in the ass were stuck with the law in our hands. And that I don't know if it's having more or less guts, but you can ask the Catalan coupsmen incarcerated or the former President of the Catalan Generality if they go down, and I assure you so. [[Applauds]] Minister, I don't want to neglect you. In April, with 30,000 killed by COVID, 18,000 according to your makeup figures, remember you publicly stated in an interview? 'This government has no reason to regret anything.' I ask you, Minister, today, with more than 56 000 dead, do you maintain the same opinion? Who is able, at the door of a second wave of pandemic expansion, to take almost a month of completely disappeared vacation? You, Mr Marlaska, because it is clear that the dead have not taken his rest this summer. Talking about your commitment to our rule of law then seems a little ridiculous, because it no longer deceives us, Mr Marlaska. You joined this social-communist government by demonstrating your status as a magistrate, remember? And I'm talking about your being a magistrate. There is no longer - and I have told you this on some occasion - the shadow of the toga, and the politician in which it has become makes us tremble. You, Mr Marlaska, have applauded EH Bildu in this House; you have dynamized the prison policy of dispersion, granting prison privileges to 95-year-old prisoners, Mr Marlaska, not Basque prisoners; 95 out of a total of 220 serving prison sentences in 2019. You are part of a government, along with the extreme left, which has as its preferred partners Catalan coupts and Basque pro-Turns. Today they negotiate budgets for prisoners and recriminate, in public acts, that it is said 'Long live the king', while they consider freedom of expression the expression 'Gora ETA'. And you have completely abandoned our public servants, Mr Marlaska, uniquely our prison officials and agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses. It is the parties of the Social-Communist Government that have encouraged public disorder in the Community of Madrid these days for pure political interest; and the consequences have been paid by our usual agents. It was the IPU that had to preserve the security of the Madrid Assembly this past 24 September. [[Show a picture]] Mr. Marlaska, where are your words of public recognition and support? Because the government partners are asking you for their heads. Minister Marlaska, will you again allow these images in Barcelona to please the Catalan coup-makers? [[showing another photograph]] This image can no longer be repeated, because the Bravo agent on it is one of the agents you abandoned and died of because of the coronavirus, Mr. Marlaska... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Olona, I see in your presentation a serious conceptual confusion - which is already common in them - and a certain disorder. Perhaps it is a preparation for that motion of censure and a new slogan for Mr Married, indeed the true recipient of it. With regard to the Head of State, I would like to tell you that you have maximum institutional respect for and recognition of the work of the Head of State by the Government, for this conceptual and thematic disorder that you have addressed. With regard to the lack of resources from the State Security Forces and Corpses, there are five thousand new places this year; last year another five thousand; salary equalization increase, 20% more than when we arrived and, of course, providing them with material means, among other things, to fight, as they do, with effort in the Gibraltar Field against drug trafficking. You also refer to questions about the movements of prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA condemned for the most devastating events; compliance with prison legislation. The rule of law defeated the terrorist organization ETA. The rule of law applies the law at all times. The rule of law is not vengeful. Perhaps you are alienated from the law; for us it is not. You speak of many issues in this regard. We will continue to comply - and I say it again - with the rule of law. We will continue to coordinate and participate with the rest of the powers of the State, with the judiciary, with the legislative power, with you too; with you it is very difficult, it is impossible, with proposals such as those of yesterday in the City of Madrid, where I feel that the People's Party and even Citizens joined in such a perverse initiative and so in law fraud of a law that seeks the recognition of all, the reunion of all, and all you want is the disencounter. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES YOU CONSIDER THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S COUNTRY PROJECT FALLS IN OUR STATE OF LAW? [[File number 180/00312]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u58	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u59	With all due respect, Madam President; thank you very much. Minister, speaking of the rule of law, do you think your Government is watching over the rule of law? His Government and his coalition are bringing Spain to ruin. It is not a constituent crisis, as you said here; it is a tremendous economic and health crisis that your Government is worsening. It is a matter of concern to see a Government seeking responsibility instead of taking on its own responsibilities and, among other things, they are also able to mislead the institutions of the State without any blush. What is it, Minister, to pardon those who would do it again? What is it about reforming the crimes of sedition and rebellion to the liking of the offender, Minister? The law is to fulfill it: hard lex, sed lex, and you know it, Minister. It's also worrying about last Friday. Why wasn't the head of state in Barcelona on Friday to hand over the offices to the new judges? Who made that decision, Minister? Who made that clumsy, cowardly decision? Mr Sánchez has left this Congress once again without defending the king; now you have the opportunity to answer and do so with transparency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u60	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rojas, thank you very much. I'd like to make a first thought. I see that Freudian concept that the voice of reason is soft and does not rest until it is heard is falling into its group. Today, with the formulation of your question, I know that you know that this Government has a country project, but you do not like it. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u63	I will tell you that yes, there is a country project and, yes, it fits into our legal system. It is a country project that looks to the future, collecting the best of the past and rejuvenating its wounds; it is an inclusive project that embraces everyone and leaves no one out, as you want; it is a project that, as the President of the Government explained, has four pillars that we want you to support: social justice, defence of public services, freedom, territorial cohesion. [[rumors]] [[A Member of Parliament: As in Venezuela!]] Of course, of course there is a country project, a project that is maintained even with the pandemic. Mr Rojas, the largest amount of economic resources, 200 billion, 20% of GDP, intended to cover this economic, social and health crisis. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u65	I think that's the key and those are the elements, and not the scream, as we just heard, from some of your colleagues. I take it, Your Honor, we have a country plan and we want to get you into it. [[Rumors. Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u66	Mr. Rojas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u67	Minister, no shouting or silence, answer: Who made the decision to veto the king in Barcelona? [[Rumors]] You said you took it who had to take it. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u69	Answer, because we are in Parliament and there has to be transparency, because this is what we have come to, Minister; we have come to ministers of your government who attack judges, or question the Head of State... [[Mr. Zaragoza Alonso: Let your companions answer!]] [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u70	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u71	... or that encourage the octopus of housing, or members of the coalition sitting under investigation for assault on authority. [[Rumors]] That's what we've come to with your government, that's your government and your country project; we don't know or know others, Your Honor, and we can't... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u72	Silence, please; I ask silence. [[Various Members: Zaragoza, Zaragoza]] Of all, I ask silence. [[Mr. De Olano Vera: Of course, he too]] Mr. De Olano! [[A lady MP: A little pill, a little pill. Another Member of Parliament: Everyone!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u73	Minister, we really cannot accept that omission. Look, when a vice president of the government says that judges are reactionary togadlers, we are not worth the minister in silence. That one has passed three peoples, Your Honor, and you are silent. We are not worth your silence, defend the more than 5000 judges who leave their skin every day for serving their country with few means, and you know it because you have been one of them. We demand transparency in the management of the pandemic and we demand transparency in the management of the Government. The Office of the Prosecutor is not here to ensure the interest of the Government, it is here to ensure the general interest of the citizens, and it knows that and has to defend it, and it has to do so and it has to raise its voice in the Government. It's good enough of all this ignominy. He breaks his silence and defends Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u74	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rojas, you know I appreciate you, but I am consistent with the question you have asked me. If you want to hear what you just formulated, wait for your VOX partner's question, to which I will now answer. Be careful. [[Several Members: Ah!]] I have tried to explain to you the country project that this Government has, but in your words it is clear that you also have a project, your political party has a project, your parliamentary group is trying to put it, and it is that of the trench and negationism, not everything: not to support the Government in the pandemic, not to support the Government in reconstruction budgets, not to support the Government in the path of dialogue to solve the problems of this country. [[A Member of the European Parliament: To pardons]] Not everything, everything: not the renewal of constitutional bodies. Why do they not listen to the European Commission, which has given its opinion on the need for renewal? They're still part-time constitutionalists, and that's not good for us, Mr. Rojas. He knows that the road to construction is done by hoisting his shoulder and not from the trench hidden there. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u76	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u77	I know you don't like the government plan, but that's the one. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHY HAS THE GOVERNMENT IMPLEMENTED THE KING'S PRESENCE IN THE ACT OF DELIVERY OF SPECIES TO THE Judges OF THE 69th PROMOTION? [[File number 180/00305]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u78	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Why did the government veto the presence of the king at the judicial ceremony in Barcelona?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u80	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Gil Lazarus, I regret that you use the king's figure as an element of ram against the government. The figure of the king is an element that unites; he should not untie us, and you should know it. [[Rumors]] I regret that it is their concern and not the health crisis that our country is suffering, the economic crisis that we all have to solve and, why not say so, overcome the social crises that our reality is offering at all levels. [[Rumors]] What happens is that I know it's a vain lament because you're located in another world, you're located in insult, in mud, and that's where you won't find us. Over and over every Wednesday I hold hands with them. Join us. They have been the only ones left out in the idea of a justice for all. We need them. Come on, because I'm sure the society that brought us here will thank us. I don't want to miss your question. He knows that the presence of the king in any act is a collegial decision that is made between the government and the Royal House. Many issues were considered: the closeness of the date of a very specific and determined, delicate judgment in a situation of also complex coexistence was assessed; the proximity of 1 October was assessed. [[rumors]] Many issues were valued, but above all something was valued so that the Government will never stop looking and is the best coexistence among citizens. And he got it. An attempt was made to change the act; it was not possible. It was done, but I'm going to tell you one thing. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u83	In that act not only the king was missing, all the members of the governing room of the Supreme Court were missing, sixteen of the seventeen presidents of the TSJ of our territory were missing, a good number of the students who were collecting the office themselves were missing, the Justice Councillor from where we were. This minister was there because, of course, the important thing was the act and that we were going to have a new package of judges to ensure the legal order and coexistence in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u84	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, embarrassing balloons out to not tell the truth, and you can't really explain it. He cannot explain it in its proper dimension because the veto on the king was a rascal and cowardly act of this government for submission to the coupsmen. It was of course the height of cynicism and shame that for its part affirmed that the veto to the king was to defend coexistence. Hear, a wretched statement, the expression of the moral vileness of this Government, which is ready to defend itself. Mr Sánchez, as long as he remains in power, is willing to make a suit tailored to the thugs in connection with the reform of the crime of rebellion and sedition so that the next attempt will make it cheaper for them. And Mr Sánchez is willing to sit at a table with these coupsmen to talk about self-determination, referendum and amnesty; and Mr Sánchez agrees that the lord of the hill and his spokesmen, from the Council of Ministers, attack the Monarchy, and Mr Sánchez and his Government agree that the political heirs of ETA crush Spanish democracy. That is the passing of three peoples, minister, and do not shout, Long live the king!, even if you think otherwise. That is why the motion of censure represents the commitment of millions of Spaniards who will not surrender to the enemies of Spain. It represents the voice of the street, of millions of Spaniards tired of enduring the lie, the hypocrisy, the shame of this Government, and it represents, in short, the will of millions of Spaniards who feel proud of their king, proud of their nation, proud of their history, proud of their Constitution, proud of having lived together for forty years in peace and who are, of course, unwilling to remain silent in the face of the trophies of this Government, which is a threat to coexistence, social justice, democracy and freedom. That's what the motion is... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Gil Lazarus, I've tried to give you some reasons, I've tried to give you some explanations. You can share them or not, you can understand them right or wrong, but what is entrepreneurship, unforgivable and in absolutely immoral constitutional terms is turning that situation into a constitutional crisis. Look, you can't complain about the words that have come out of this government or this minister in defense of the constitutional monarchy, of the parliamentary monarchy, and you can say whatever you want, but the reality is what it is. When you talk about the Constitution, it seems to be something of yours. No, it's not his or his party; it's all Spanish. And you know the difference? That in my Spain it is up to you, but in yours it is not up to us. They can't get over that, and that's where we go wrong. [[Applauds]] Seek the path of the democratic path, which will make us all better. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DID THE GOVERNMENT HAVE THOUGHT TO ENSURE THAT ALL THE PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS OF THE STATE ARE SUBMITTED TO THE DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES AND TO THE RESPECT OF THE PARLIAMENTARY MAJORITIES? [[File number 180/00316]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u88	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. How does the Government intend to ensure that all State institutions respect the most basic democratic values, as well as the parliamentary majorities that exist here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u90	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. First of all, I would like to thank you - and I shall give you my thanks in your speech, but I extend it to the other parliamentary groups - for that writing in which you have requested the need for the renewal of the constitutional bodies, because that is the way to answer your question: by complying with the law, by complying with the Constitution. That is what I say to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The renewal of the constitutional bodies is to create the rule of law and the legal system. And the construction of a social and democratic rule of law is done in compliance with the entire Constitution, and not just the part that interests to take out at every moment. Indeed, that is the way: dialogue, respect for the legal order, and that is why, of course, we all have to go because it is the only way that coexistence is peaceful, that situation that marked the Constitution of 1812, that is to have happy citizens in the most constitutional sense of the term, and it is in a State that fulfils, in a State that promotes social justice, freedoms, that works in the public to avoid inequalities and that works in territorial cohesion, that is now more necessary than ever. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u92	Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I am going to talk to you about three institutions - not all of them, of course, are up to you, but it is up to you. The first is the Community of Madrid. Moncloa-Madrid conflict. Who gets it? All of them; we've got them all and we've got them all. What you agreed yesterday with Ayuso is not a coffee for everyone, as has been described, is that the doctor tells Ayuso that he cannot drink coffee and then none can. 155 for the whole of Spain. That's what you've agreed to. Bad example. From: Judicial Power. In less than 24 hours a president has been convicted of a banner, absolved of a corrupt for a scam, and the sentence of a pederast teacher at an Opus Dei school has been reduced. That is the judicial power today in Spain, which is not a judicial power, it is a power, and it goes against all, against a part of this country and also against you. [[Protests]] Calm down. And three: The Royal House, the mother of the lamb, what shall I tell you? Simply a very graphic thing: VOX has here, unfortunately, fifty-two Members, but in total it has fifty-three, because it has one in Zarzuela. [[Protests.-A lady MP: Hala!-Applause]] Here's the dramatic thing.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u94	Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Protests]] I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u95	Ladies and gentlemen of the right, of the far right... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u96	I'm asking for silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u97	...they're right. Felipe VI was voted a Spaniard; this is Francisco Franco. [[protests]] [[shows a photo]] He was about ten years old. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: Come on, man!]] A little young. Calm down, it's too soon. [[Several honourable Members: Long live the king! Long live!-Protests.-Applause.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u98	I pray silence, please, and respect the control session, which is the way to respect all of us. [[Protests Continue]] I'm asking for silence. [[A Member of Parliament: Respect for the Head of State.-Mr García Aegean: To withdraw from the Diario de Sesiones]] I don't want to start calling them by name every one of you who's screaming. [[Protests.-Several Members: What a barbarity!]] Quiet, please. [[Mr. García Eggea: To withdraw from the Journal of Sessions]] Mr. García Aegean, silence. You don't have the floor. [[Protests Continue]] Let's continue with the control session. [[Mr. García Aegean: It's a shame! To be withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings]] Mr. García Aegean. Quiet. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to give you a little thought because I believe that the previous Portuguese language claims it. [[Protests]] Being in a pandemic situation does not at all mean giving up the exercise of reason and depriving yourself of the benefits of a calm and loyal reflection, and that goes for many of you. Mr. Rufián, I do not share your analysis. You have done an analysis of health, justice and the monarchy. [[protests]] I will tell you one thing, the effort that this government is making in order to combine the effects, to co-ordinate everyone's efforts to get out of the pandemic, I think it will pass into history. [[Rumors]] And that's a reality, because it's a new reality that we face, we've never met. In the area of justice, I understand that he does not like the judgment, but it is a judgment handed down by the Supreme Court of Spain, to which I have the highest respect. And I'll tell you one thing, it was a unanimous sentence. The legal order is given on behalf of the king, justice is given on behalf of the king by independent judges, and I believe in that. And I will defend to the last drop of my blood both the monarchy and the constitutional state and justice. And finally, the monarchy. The monarchy gives us everything... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr Casado Blanco asks for the floor]] They know perfectly well that the control session cannot be interrupted. So, let's finish the control session. - OF MR LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE PROCESSING OF THE INDULT THE POLITICAL RESPONSE OF THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE RESOLUTION OF THE POLITICAL CONFLICT IN CATALUONE? [[File number 180/00301]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u101	Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u102	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, last week in your answer to my question - and I do not have time to reply - you launched the question of pardons, which has caused so much trouble, when it is a mere administrative procedure. Do you think that, with everything that has happened this week - because small week, small time to be Minister of Justice - in Spain, let us pardon the question and focus on another administrative procedure that has not taken place, such as the signing of the decree of disqualification of President Torra, which neither the President of the Government nor the Head of State dared to sign? Because the Supreme Court has just consummated a legal abuse that has culminated in the first disqualification of a President of the Generalitat in office. The question is simple, and I do not put it as a supposedly progressive and supposedly Justice minister, I ask it as a Democrat: Doesn't it embarrass you?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u103	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Borràs, I am sorry to pin the globite on you, but the processing of a pardon is no political response, it is compliance with the legal order, in accordance with the Law of 1870, regulating the right of grace. Grace is an exceptional measure, it is a measure of grace, as I have just indicated, and it consists in the possibility of a remission of all or part of the penalty or of some of its consequences, and always after a final sentence. It is an administrative procedure that has a few perfectly regulated steps: it is presented, registered, transferred to the sentencing court and the sentencing court requests information from the Prosecutor's Office, prison institutions and those parties that may have the status of affected or victims of the crime. From there, a proposal is made to the Council of Ministers. Therefore, it cannot be a political response to anything, it is a response to the legal order, which this Government will always comply with.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u105	Mrs. Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u106	Minister, you have not listened to me, I have asked you to pardon the question, but as I had it prepared... You talk to me about thank you and I talk about shame. Because overthrowing a democratically elected president is such an unusual shame that, perhaps, they don't even dare publish it in the BOE. Do you not realize that this legal monstrosity will not only represent the umpteenth shame for your country, the shame that European justice will end up disabling Spanish justice for this and for the rest of the misconceptions it accumulates in its obsession with serving Spain instead of serving the justice and defence of the rights of its citizens? The president of the late Supreme Council of the Judiciary urged the new judges to act always for the benefit of Spain, not for the sake of justice; between justice and Spain, you always choose Spain. With this same sentence it is intended to disable independence, but nothing further from reality: to more repression, more determination, and more violation of rights, more conviction of the need to have a State of its own that respects us. This horrible week we've had many examples. Yesterday I was with Dani Gallardo in Alcalá Meco. We have seen what are the priorities of justice, which is absolved by the Bankia case, but punishes the democratically chosen majorities in Catalonia. They wanted swift justice, and when Catalan independenceists are judged, you have express justice, expressly against it. Spain being a perfect democracy is just a slogan, because when Spanish justice discovered that it had power, democracy ceased to be the most important thing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u107	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Borràs, you in your role and me in mine, what do you want me to tell you? I understand his political argument, his language, even his epic, but he understands that this Minister of Justice can only assert the guarantee offered by the legal system and its instruments, because it is believed that we are a social and democratic state of law. I will not go in and discuss with you - you have heard me say it many times - a sentence; the sentences are complied with, the sentences are respected and tried and enforced by the courts. We can argue in the doctrinal fields, but now, as Minister of Justice, you will not find me making an assessment of a sentence, because it would not be understood and, worse, the citizens would not understand it. You speak of a political crisis, a crisis of coexistence, and I tell you that this government has only one instrument for that: dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. Only by dialogue can we emerge from political problems. Justice must fulfil its role, but politics must do itss; let us not mix matters up. That is why I ask you: join the dialogue, because it is the only way we know in democracy to get out of the problems without having to have more wounds in our society. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED ROSA MARIA ROMERO SÁNCHEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP IN THE CONGRESS, THAT FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: Has the Government given all the explanations that it has to give about its management of the COVID-19 pandemia? [[File number 180/00314]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u109	Questions to the Minister for Health. Question by Mrs Rosa María Romero Sánchez of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u110	Minister, your government was late in implementing the measures: the PPE did not arrive in time; first masks, no, and then masks, yes; they hid reports and do not recognize the actual number of dead. Do you think you have given all the explanations your government has to give? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u111	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you yourself have observed, in your capacity as chairman of the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs, the Government has given you all the explanations you have been asked about the course and evolution of this pandemic. In particular, I have appeared at my own request on 17 occasions before the Commission you chair; I have submitted myself to the control of this House on a weekly basis, answering nineteen questions, counting today's two, and thirteen in the Senate, plus five questions from the High Chamber, and I have answered, if I am not mistaken in number, six thousand written questions, most of your political group. In these appearances in the Commission which you chair you will find the answer to all the questions you have asked. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u113	Mrs. Romero Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u114	Sánchez said in July: we defeated the virus and controlled the pandemic. Well, ladies and gentlemen, since then we have had to regret that in this second wave we have more than 2500 victims. Minister, since the WHO declared the international health alert, it is your ministry's responsibility to manage the pandemic. And I don't say that either I or the People's Party, as section 14 of the Public Health Act says. What have you done at this time? They have left the autonomous communities alone, they have profiled themselves, they have done so; an irresponsible action at a time as difficult as the one that Spain is experiencing, with more than 56 000 dead. Why are they blocking a committee of inquiry that is transparent, that evaluates its management? Let the truth be known, as it is being done in Germany, in Italy, in France. What are you hiding? Spain is the country with the most infected and dead per capita in the world, with the most infected health, and with poor management; this is what prestigious institutions, such as the University of Cambridge, say that Spain is the country of the developed world that has managed the worst pandemic. Minister, rebounds are not a problem in Madrid; Spain has nine of the ten European regions with the most infected. That is why I ask you to stop attacking the Community of Madrid, to stop attacking the people of Madrid. Why have you politicized the pandemic against Madrid? What do you do it for? As a candidate for the Generalitat of Catalonia? Look, we need a government that coordinates a response for the entire national territory; a government that coordinates with clear, homogeneous criteria, for all equally, endorsed by experts, those that do not have and should be naming as soon as possible. We have not stopped reaching out to them since the People's Party, but the pride of his Government is only comparable to the incompetence of his management in the pandemic. That is why I say to you: stop doing politics, help the health care workers, help the autonomous communities, help the municipalities. Institutional loyalty. Sanchez left today without defending the king... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u116	Your Honor, talking about everything and mixing everything is the best way to not talk about anything and not solve anything. [[Applauds]] I don't think I exceed myself if I ask your lordship a little bit, just a little bit of rigor and seriousness. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Rigor, you]] We are in the middle of the second wave across Europe, also in Spain, of the pandemic. I urge you, I urge you and your group to work together, to tie their shoulders, because to whom I do not join tomorrow will be subtracted. [[Rumors]] The Government has been constantly doing its part, coordinating the autonomous communities - four coordinated actions in public health had never been done in our democracy - and has put legal, material, economic and technological means at the disposal of the autonomous communities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u118	It has acted and will continue to act with loyalty to all the autonomous communities, saying, yes, things as they are. Today we actually have a high incidence of cases in our country, especially in the Autonomous Community of Madrid. [[A Member: And in Navarre.-Protests]] The agreement reached by the President of the Government and the President of the Autonomous Community is very important, and the Government is going to continue in this direction, in the line of cooperation and of seeking solutions and not seeking reproach, and at the moment we will make an assessment, of course, of how things have worked, and I hope it will be constructive, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ISABEL POZUETA FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT MEASURES WILL BE TAKEN TO CONTAIN CONTACTS IN THE PUBLIC AND LABORAL AREA? [[File number 180/00302]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u119	Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u120	Thank you. Your Honor, we ask you this question because you plan a general idea that something is hidden and not faced. During the last few weeks, in the face of the second wave, family gatherings, leisure and even culture have been limited, but the contagions continue to rise, because while the life of the citizenry is restricted, the meters remain crowded and factories and businesses full of people for eight or ten hours a day. It seems that, as far as we're concerned, the virus respects factories and businesses, transport and rich neighborhoods. It doesn't get infected there. Curious at least. One might think that, while citizens are being asked for sacrifices and meet the well-being of all, this is not the case with businesses and transport. In Navarra, the company Uvesa was closed, following numerous complaints by the workers about non-compliance with health and protection measures. They were not heard, there was no inspection or control, until it had to be closed by a great outbreak. It is to be hoped that these situations are taking place in many other companies. What about the daily images of meters and trains or full planes! I myself come every week to this House by train from Pamplona, three hours away and three hours back, sitting next to people I don't know. You think this isn't a risk? That is why I ask you: what measures will you take to contain contagions in the public and labour spheres?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u121	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u122	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Firstly, I would like to thank the efforts and adaptation efforts made by workers, the labour prevention services of companies, social partners and companies themselves to adapt the working conditions to the reality of COVID-19. From the Ministry of Health, along with the autonomous communities, as you know, we are working on two axes to combat this second wave of the virus: in the early detection of cases and in their isolation and surveillance. This is contained in the early response plan that we agreed with the Autonomous Communities and has been implemented with the successive coordinated actions in public health - and there are now four - that we have adopted. Allow me, more specifically following your question, to highlight two important measures in the field of work. The first, the protocol - which has received successive updates and which was already adopted at the end of February - of action for occupational risk prevention services, done with the collaboration of the six main entities of occupational medicine and nursing, social agents and the Ministry of Labour. Secondly, the real decree of remote work, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers and which regulates this mode of work, important at this time of the pandemic, and also the measures of adaptation to the General Administration of the State, which we recently adopted. This is the path. We follow the measures and their effects and adapt them as we get more information. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u123	Mrs. Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u124	We ask you to work with the Autonomous Communities to agree and strengthen the means of control and inspection in the workplace and the public, before Mrs Ayuso, in addition to deciding on Pamplona or Bilbao, also decides on other areas. Because just as doctors and trackers are needed, inspectors are also needed to ensure that measures are implemented in companies; more means are needed to protect women workers in their health on a day-to-day basis. To protect the economy, which seems to be the first of its objectives, let us not forget that women workers must be protected, who are precisely those who make the economy survive and not the other way around. We look forward to your commitment to take all necessary measures in the workplace as well.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u125	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u126	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In this regard, we are already working and you have my commitment that we will continue to work in this direction. Let me give you an example of the specific measures we are implementing together with the Autonomous Communities in relation to the fruit and vegetable sector and its workers, when we saw, at the end of July and early August, that there were a large number of outbreaks associated with these activities. We did the same with other sectors of the economy, for example, the nightlife and catering sectors. Therefore, that is the line of work: to see where the outbreaks occur, specifically attacking those sectors or companies where they occur, always working in coordination with the autonomous communities. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MIGUEL ÁNGEL JEREZ JUAN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF CONSUMER: DOES THE MINISTER KEEP HIS REFERENCES RELATING TO THE JEFATURE OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/00317]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u127	Questions to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Jerez Juan, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u128	Madam President. Minister, it is Wednesday and it has been five days since you committed an unacceptable act in democracy. In any country with worthy presidents you would not have lasted five minutes sitting in that chair. He first charged against the tourism sector, humiliated our main industry, thousands of entrepreneurs and workers who are getting older than you and still lie down later; he told them that their activity was residual, told them that they had little added value, and you said that you, the minister who least contributes to Spain and the most expendable of the twenty-three. Later, for no reason, he called the National Police and the Civil Guard coups, and the last of them, which has no remedy: you accused the head of State of maneuvering against the Government, questioning its neutrality and its role in the constitutional framework. Mr Garzón, in more than 40 years of democracy, no one dared to cross so many red lines and lead us to an unprecedented institutional crisis. Look, the functions of the head of state are being kidnapped by the executive. So much so that Mr Sánchez left today without defending the head of state. The judiciary is being mistreated by the executive more than ever, and the intentions of the executive are about to weaken our regime of freedoms, and that is more than evident today. You have proposed to liquidate the regime of the 78 and your words against the monarchy, and this is nothing more than the tip of the iceberg. And after all, Mr. Garzón, the most surprising thing is that you are still sitting there, as if nothing, without regrets and conscience. Mr. Garzón, five days after attacking the powers of the State and the Constitution, do you intend to rectify or do you intend to resign? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u129	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u130	Mr Jerez, with regard to your question, I remind you that our political system is a parliamentary monarchy. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u131	Mr. Jerez Juan.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u132	Look, Mr. Garzón, at the Palace of Zarzuela you promised loyalty to the head of state and to keep and keep the Constitution. Since then you have done the opposite, and the opposite is breaking a promise. The one who breaks a promise has no word, and you have no word, and the one who has no word is not to be trusted, and you are not to be trusted, and the one who is not to be trusted cannot serve the interests of the Government of Spain. You have become an unusable person already for the defence of the democratic values that inspire our Constitution, a Constitution that you are not able or able to respect. Mr Garzón, you have exhausted your useful life in this government. Mr. Garzón, turn off the light and close the door on your way out. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u133	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Jerez, I do not know whether you have read Menéndez Pelayo or not, what is clear is that you have assumed the theses, sadly official for too many years, according to which there is an alleged internal enemy in our country: the anti-Spain. [[rumors]] You see anti-Spanish everywhere: socialists, communists, republicans, independenceists, Catalans and Basques; basically anyone who does not agree with his reactionary idea of what is Spain. Hence the conceptual menu that you use to refer to this coalition government: traitor, illegitimate socialcommunist and other verbal excesses like those that you have spoken right now. [[Rumors]] This is not new, this is not even from the pandemic, this is the reflection that you do not accept the legitimate and democratic motion of censorship of 2018. [[Mr. García Aegean: Neither you to the king nor to the parliamentary monarchy]] Mr. Jerez, I'm one of those things, including the Republican one. Fortunately, more than forty years ago they ceased to be persecuted, because thousands of men and women in this country, including many of my party, the Communist Party of Spain, now in the United Left, conquered freedom by facing the Franco dictatorship represented by people like Manuel Fraga, founder of his party. [[Mr. García Aegeana utters words that are not perceived.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u135	Mr. García Aegean, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u136	Mr Jerez, that Constitution of 78, which crystallized that freedom, explained very clearly the neutrality of the fundamental institutions, including the Head of State. But let us not deceive ourselves, you have no interest in the neutrality of the institutions, you want the Crown to do the same as you want the flag and the judiciary, to put it to the head of those who do not think like you, those who are evil Spaniards for you. That is why you are proud to use the courts for your own sake. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u137	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u138	That's why you used the police to spy on rivals and invent evidence and that's why you've plundered public institutions for many years. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u139	I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Minister, just a moment, please. I'm asking for silence. It's hard to hear the speaker. It is difficult to hear the speaker, I ask for silence and respect, please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your attitude, Members of Parliament and Members of the People's Party and of the far right, reflects that what I am saying is true. You do not accept another vision of this country, but there are other Spaniards we think differently from you and we are equally Spanish and we do not use the institutions to launch them to the rest. [[Rumors.-Protests]] According to the court rulings, gentlemen of the People's Party, you are closer to the crime than to the Constitution. You are many things, but you are not constitutionalists. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT AUTOMATION IS A STRATEGIC SECTOR FOR ECONOMY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00309]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u141	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question from Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u142	Thank you. Minister, does the Government consider that the automotive sector is a strategic sector for the economy?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u143	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u144	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. The answer is yes. We have demonstrated this with facts; we have not only protected the car industry in this country, but we have also deployed an important drive plan with €3750 million. Therefore, we are working to relaunch the car industry in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u145	Mrs. Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u146	Thank you, Minister. Look, I'd like to do an act of faith and believe that for you this sector is strategic, but it makes it difficult for me. You like to talk about certainties and I'm going to talk about marketing today, because that's what I see with regard to automotive, a great advertising campaign in which I only see the wrapper, but I don't see the end product. I say marketing because, following a question and an inquiry made by this group, it announced the setting up of an automotive table with the sector and the communities directly affected and also a plan to boost the economy. I say marketing because, despite the fact that the table was set up in June, we don't know the product that came out of there. Do you know why, minister? Because there is no such product, one meeting and no progress. And what a coincidence that after registering this question we have another announcement: soon it will be called. Are we facing a new expectation or a new disillusionment for the sector? I say marketing because they announced an impulse plan, yes, Moves and Renove plans, with more shadows than you look. Returns to the Reindus plan, which fails to take off and which is inefficient for companies to gain competitiveness. It is said by law and industry itself. A tax reform that is unknown, and also already has a hot potato in his ministry in terms of tuition tax. I say marketing because we were told they were going to present an investment and reform plan to Brussels. And I wonder, what is the point of outlining a plan with measures that are not consensual with the sector, that do not take into account the capacity and know-how available to the sector? It is not a question of dedusting projects, but of putting forward new projects with and for the industry, for the automotive sector, a consensual plan and of course that does not conflict with energy transition and industry, because both are compatible. The absorption of European funds, Minister, cannot be based on unilaterality because this is the principle of failure. Minister, the sector is strategic. Prove it, if so, with certainty and not with marketing, because what they have done has been generating many expectations that have been fading away. We are already witnessing announcements of closures of subsidiaries in this sector, a sector that represents 10% of the innovative GDP, which is committed to a green transformation and is demanding a serious and valid dialogue with its government, which wants to work in coordination with its government and with the autonomous communities, in addition to the European strategy. Minister, you have an incredible opportunity to help transform the sector with new recipes, not old ones. It has the best political basis, which is to have all the sectors involved. Play it, set a date for that table, for those working groups, add skills and bet on projects with a global approach and with broad consensus, if you really believe in automotive and industry as a strategic sector. This will be the best marketing policy and of course the best presentation letter that can lead to Europe. We need a robust industry. Please don't miss this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u147	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I don't agree with you at all. You talk about marketing and I talk about facts. He spoke of a plan of 3750 million, of which 1050 million have been devoted to stimulating demand to renew the car park. I'll give you facts. So far we have mobilised, as you know, EUR 250 million of the Renove Plan - we have already accepted more than 110 000 applications - and EUR 500 million through the ICO line of support for professional and industrial road vehicles. Two thousand operations worth EUR 118 million have already been approved, Your Honor. We have promoted CDTI missions, a mission in smart sustainable mobility, and we have received and are evaluating eighteen applications. We have also presented the Agenda Spain Digital, which includes a tractor project for sustainable, innovative and efficient mobility, and we have just presented with the Ministry of Transport the Sustainable Secure Mobility Strategy, connected with an integrated approach and coordinated, of course, with all the autonomous communities. These are the facts and they confirm that there is absolutely nothing marketing, but a lot of work, Your Honor, to support the automotive sector of our country. You talk about governance, governance through an automotive table that we're going to call in the next few weeks. We have waited to convene it, first, because we are putting in place all the measures of the drive plan and we want to make an assessment at the table and, second, because we are drawing up the support plan for the car sector within the framework of the European Union aid fund. This table will mean co-governance with the autonomous communities and with all actors in the sector, where we will be able to evaluate all European projects. So yes, the table will be convened and will undoubtedly be a co-governance table, reaching out to all communities and industry agents so that we move from words to facts and truly push the automotive sector of this country to become more competitive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? FROM THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ-MORO, THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT EMERGENCY MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED FOR TO FRONT THE SERIOUS ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SITUATION OF CANADIANS BY THE NEW TURIST CORE? [[File number 180/00286]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u149	Question by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, what urgent and specific measures for the Canary Islands will your Government pose to the new tourist zero of my land?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u151	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Oramas, for the question. The Government is well aware of the economic and social impact of the COVID pandemic in the Canary Islands. As you know, I recently visited the islands. I have met with representatives of the Government, the lobbyists, the tourist municipalities and, of course, the main employers and trade unions. There we committed ourselves to strengthening the measures of impetus for the Canary Islands, which we have included in the recently adopted III Social Agreement, which we brought yesterday to the Council of Ministers, an agreement which contains all the complaints that made me come to that meeting. Mrs Oramas, the Canarian workers will not lose their ability to pay, will not consume unemployment, the exemptions will be, both for active and inactive workers, and of course the ERTE will adapt to the workplaces. Mrs Oramas, the Government is fully committed to the recovery of the tourism sector in the Canary Islands and we will continue to work on new measures to ensure that the sector effectively recovers from this major crisis. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u153	Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u154	Regrettably, Minister. The only thing that was missing from the Canary Islands was that we didn't have ERTE like the rest of the country. But in the Canary Islands we do not want to be in ERTE, we want to have the hotels open and yet we have at this time half the population unemployed or in ERTE. We are the only winter destination in Europe. We need two things from your government and from you. For five months now, the Government of the Canary Islands - by the way, socialist - employers and trade unions have asked for tests in origin and destination, and you have refused on political issues with other autonomous communities in this country. Portugal did it in Madeira, Italy did it in Sardinia and Sicily. While we ask the German retirees, the British and the Nordics to come to the Canary Islands in winter, because the Canary Islands has contained the pandemic, you suppress the Imserso's journeys because it is dangerous for the elderly to travel. It is less dangerous to be in Tenerife, Gran Canarias, Fuerteventura or Lanzarote than in many cities on the peninsula. There are 900,000 older tourists who could come to the Canary Islands and thousands of jobs are at stake. I ask your Government to reconsider the subject of moving Imserso's trips to the Canary Islands. How are we going to ask Europeans if we do not trust our destinations? Finally, with regard to immigrants who come in pateras, who do not pollute in the Canary Islands, who are not contaminated in the Canary Islands, who have nothing to do with the pandemic, we cannot allow the cayuco arriving on the island to be counted in the Canary Islands. Why? Because we've controlled it. Moreover, Europe is looking at whether the Canary Islands has 50 infected per 100,000 inhabitants, as we have; even if it is 5 or 6% the impact on the statistics of each island, it is unacceptable. His Government has asked him to do this, and I ask him to do three things as Minister of Tourism: test in origin, trips from the Imserso and to speak with the Minister of Health to account for the COVIDs of immigrants in a national statistics, and not to be awarded to each of our islands. We want to work, we don't want misery or unemployment, we want to work in the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u155	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u156	Thank you very much. The truth, Mr Oramas, is that I think we share the same objective, but of course there are elements in your speech that I cannot agree with. You say we've banned... We are working, Your Honor, with the Government of the Canary Islands and with the entire value chain to open tourist corridors with the main issuing markets, but you have forgotten to refer to something, and it is the pandemic. And it's just that we have to keep bending the pandemic curve so that those safe tourist corridors can actually open up. On Monday we were able to adopt in the European Union's Committee of Ministers of Tourism an important statement, led by Spain, calling for the effective strengthening of coordination measures with our counterparts so that Europe can be a place where safe travel takes place again. Therefore, we are working with the uniqueness of the islands, we know that the workers, the workers and the companies want to open, they want to work and, therefore, that is the effort we are sharing. You're talking about the Imserso. Look, there is a report - which I will share with you, if you wish - of the health authority where these trips are discouraged, because this collective, Your Honor, is one of the most sensitive from the point of view of the pandemic. So, you want us to mobilize a collective to the islands or to any territory on the peninsula, putting these people's lives at risk? Of course, Your Honor, we can doubt that we are working on improving the Imserso, but we will not put the elderly in our country at risk, because what we want is to save lives and of course to protect the Canarian tourism sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u157	Thank you very much. - OF THE SERGIO SAYAS LÓPEZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT ACTIONS DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN PROVIDED FOR? THE CLOSING OF THE TRAIN PLANT IN CASTEJON? [[File number 180/00318]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u158	Question by Mr Sergio Sayas López, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u159	Thank you, President. We were asked a question in a session in which many Spaniards have to feel ashamed to see how the Government of their country pies with those who struck democracy in Catalonia, and with those who have not come across a single line of ETA terrorism, instead of defending our constitutional system, the parliamentary monarchy and the figure of the king. I think the Spaniards deserve a less cowardly and less sold government. I will take advantage of this time we have to ask you, Minister, about a huge concern we have in Navarre. Last Friday, the company Trenasa announced the closure of the plant, 110 workers will be on the street, and I ask you, Minister, what will your ministry do?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u160	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u161	Thank you, President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the announcement of the closure of the company Trenasa, I would like to show all the solidarity and support of the Government for its workers and families. Your Honor, as we have always done, the government is always involved in solving industrial crises, defending productive capacities and jobs. We have recently demonstrated this in Alcoa, and I guarantee you that the Ministry of Industry will work loyally and in coordination with the affected administrations in search of solutions to maintain these productive capacities and jobs in Navarre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u162	Mr. Sayas López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u163	Minister, the government can't turn its back on Navarra. In just a few months we have attended the closing of the Gamesa plant in Aoiz, with 239 workers on the street, and now Trenasa, in Castejón, with 110. Trenasa is located in Castejón, which has an unemployment rate of about 20%, and in an area of Navarra that is one of the most punished for unemployment in our entire community. So far our community is feeling ill-treated by the Spanish Government, we have seen it when the recovery funds have been distributed when we have been given 1% of the funds and we have 1.4% of the total Spanish population, but it is that we contribute to the state's burdens according to GDP 1.6. The 160 million are the crumbs of the recovery fund for a community that is being particularly punished by the pandemic. If we analyze the numbers of contagion, Navarra is the most contagious community in recent weeks. You do not say this because you govern it, but these are the real figures of the disgovernment in Navarre, with a president who is acting more as a socialist president than as president of the whole community. We have also seen this when you agreed on the deficit target well below what the AIReF allowed, and now let us hope not to see it distributed with European funds. Navarre has challenges in digital transformation, in ideological transformation, in reinvention of the industry that makes it particularly interested in receiving funds from the New Generation Europe Programme. That's why I'm asking you, Minister...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u164	Mr. Sayas, thank you very much. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u165	Thank you, President. I have already told you, Your Honor, that this government is always on the side of the workers, and of course we are going to analyse the problem that the company has and put all the means in place for its resolution. You spoke in your intervention of many things, to me really the question that worries me and that concerns me is the impulse of industry, and above all of industry throughout the territory and in Navarre. He has spent very little time talking about it, which I regret, because it is indeed very important to re-industrialization in our country and especially in Navarre. You were talking about the recovery funds, some funds, Your Honor, which you know are going to channel through the 2021 State General Budgets. And, Your Honor, if you are so concerned about the distribution of these funds, I hope that your parliamentary group will support budgets that are really an impulse, a country project and something that this country needs to relaunch the economy. Therefore, I urge you, Your Honor, if so much I insist - the industry is concerned, to support the 2021 General State Budgets, which will be the channel to be able to boost the industry of this country through the European Union's recovery funds. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? IN THE CHAIR: MR MARGARITA PROHENS RIGO THE COLAPSE OF THE OFFICES OF SOCIAL SECURITY, WHICH IS IMPRISED TO TREAT FOR THOSE THOUSANDS OF SPAIN ASSISTANCE AND PENSIONS? [[File number 180/00313]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u166	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you're always late when you're here. Minimum vital income, 90% of unmet applications. His star measure has not only crashed, but his poor management has dragged Social Security. Thousands of pensioners - 100,000 according to some sources - have been unpaid for four months. These new retirees, mothers, widows, orphans, you've left them behind. And also the women, the main beneficiaries: single-parent households, domestic workers, de facto couples who had not recognized, all stay behind, because with you no one manages to get ahead. Minister, are you planning on doing something to unlock Social Security? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u168	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u169	Madam President, Mrs Prohens, last week you asked me about minimum living income and it really seemed that you were referring to some of those autonomous incomes that have never been paid and never developed, after decades more than the minimum living income that you just pulled out. Today he is referring to Social Security and I think he is referring to another country and another time. Social Security has managed and been treated with two million people this year in the middle of the pandemic, two million. Do you know how many deals Social Security makes in a normal year? Six hundred thousand, that is, Social Security has done three times as much in this year as in any normal year, because Social Security has been absolutely instrumental in achieving unprecedented protection of income and productive fabric. In addition to managing pensions and all family benefits, it has had to deal with one and a half million casualties per COVID, it has had to develop ERTE files and it has had to process the minimum living income. We're really in another country. It is yours and real Spain where Social Security has been decisive and instrumental for the Spaniards to have been able to protect their incomes and go through this very complicated situation, under the conditions in which they have done so. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u170	I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Mrs. Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u171	Minister, get out of the official car. Do you know the anguish that causes thousands of people waiting for a benefit or trying to get an appointment? Mr. Escriva, do you know what's wrong with you? That you were the engineer who designed bridges and taught lessons behind a table, but when you touched down to the work and started building the bridge you fell. And you know what else he fell for? His reputation. It has not only caused unprecedented chaos in Social Security by tripling waiting time, but you suffer from a lack of judgment or authority in this Government, and I do not know what is worse. You, who seemed to be the best-prepared minister when he was doing analysis, when he was in charge of managing, have proved to be one more, unable to do the least that is expected of you: to pay pensions in time and form. Do not do as the Ministers of Education and Universities, who so much washing their hands have proved to be indispensible, although the head of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs would also need to wash honor and conscience. You, who remain silent while others act, are part of Europe's worst government to manage the health, economic and social crisis, the only one capable of causing an unprecedented institutional crisis in the midst of a pandemic, with a president who has left this House without even defending the king. You, Minister, have colleagues with your own curriculum who are already looking for a way out of this government; others cannot do so. Maybe you should imitate them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u172	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u173	Hearing her argue without data and with anecdotes reminded me of Mr. Trump last night... [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u174	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u175	...with all that demagogy and all that misinformation. [[Applauds]] He's telling us a reality that doesn't exist. What's the reality? And there goes the data, not the comments you make. The data is... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u176	Mr. Hispan, Mr. García Aegean, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u177	Social Security solves a pension in fourteen days on average. Do you know how long it takes the Autonomous Communities to settle a non-contributory pension? Four months, some autonomous community up to a year. That's the reference. And then the most important thing comes. Do you know between 2012 and 2018 how much employment in Social Security fell? Employment in Social Security was reduced by two thousand people, and the average age of social security officials is fifty-eight years. Where's the responsibility? We're trying to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u178	Thank you, Minister. [[Mr Casado Blanco asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u179	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u180	Madam President, I call on Article 72 to request the application of Article 103, since offensive concepts have been poured into the institutions of the State, and Article 104, to order them to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions. According to the president of the government the responsibility is to attack the king and the irresponsible is to defend him; it is the world upside down. But, Madam President, you have a responsibility not to tolerate an accusation like that of the Republican Left and Mr Rufian saying that the Head of State is authoritarian. Bildu already did it at the investiture session and you didn't do anything. But I have to remember once again that the monarchy voted democratically as a political form of the state, by the way, also for 90% of Catalans, and that Fr Philip VI was proclaimed a democratic king in this Parliament six years ago. Do you think that the President of the British, Danish, Dutch, Belgian, Swedish or even Norwegian Parliament would not refer to this intervention as I am asking you to do? The institutions cannot thus be attacked with the complicity of this Government. It's not all right. That's enough, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up. Several honourable Members: Long live the king!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Married, I've had the opportunity to say it before. This Presidency makes an interpretation of one of the greatest freedoms in democracy, such as freedom of expression, in accordance with our constitutional text. Many times in this House we have to listen to things that are rejected, that are not shared, of course, and that may even offend in some way, but I believe that my role as president is to respect freedom of expression. [[Rumors]] No insults and no direct insults have been attributed. [[Protests]] Each parliamentary group, therefore, will use this use freely. What I ask, please, in general terms, all Members and Members and all Members of this House, all Members of this House, for the sake of coexistence in this House, for the sake of the image of this House, for the sake of the exemplaryness that we owe to our society, to all the citizens and to all the Spanish citizens we represent, is respect. I'm asking you, please, containment. I ask you, please, to know how to listen to the dissenter, who thinks differently from us. I ask you, in short, please, education; that's all I ask of you: education. This monitoring session has not exactly been an example of this. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, I rise. Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u182	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. [[Mr Casado Blanco asked for the floor. Mrs. Arrimadas García asked for the floor. Protests]] I'm not giving any more use of the word. I'm asking for silence, please. [[Protests]] We now turn to urgent appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to assess the absence of measures taken by the Government to ensure the survival of businesses and jobs in the hospitality sector and other tourism-related sectors in Spain. [[Protests]] I'm not giving any more words, ladies and gentlemen. Let's continue with the control session, which is not over. [[The lady]] Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u183	Thank you, Madam President. You are getting very badly defending Mr Rufián from saying barbarities and not giving the floor to a Member who asks for it. I just have a very easy question...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u184	There are no shifts for questions, Mrs. Arrimadas. What article do you claim to ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u185	72.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u186	Article 72 refers to compliance with the Regulation. What article do you want to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u187	103. I want to ask you a question as president of the Congress of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u188	Mrs Arrimadas, that is that reference has already been made, and the President has spoken about it. [[rumors and protests]] There is no debate with the Presidency, Mrs Arrimadas. [[Rumors]] There is no debate with the Presidency. Let's continue with the interpellations, please. [[Protests by Mrs. Arrimadas]] Mrs. Arrimadas, let's continue the interpellations, please. I repeat the text of the inquiry that we are going to discuss below. Urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to assess the absence of measures taken by the Government to ensure the survival of businesses and jobs in the hospitality sector and other tourism-related sectors in Spain. For your defence, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u189	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, President. I begin by transferring the question Mrs. Arrimadas wanted to ask him: What is an offence to the king? What does this House and the President of this House consider...? [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u190	Mrs Martínez Granados, you have the floor to present your inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u191	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, minister, save lives and save jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have heard us say this to the full, as the mantra of a background corridor that isolates itself from noise, screams, distractions and concentrates on what is really important. Saving lives and saving jobs. Last Sunday, ladies and gentlemen, we celebrated Tourism Day, although the celebration is little more than a phrase made. There was not much to celebrate, but we did remember many people, entrepreneurs who set up their SMEs with much effort and no less illusion, with all their savings, and not only with their own, but also with those of their families, asking for credits, making lots of numbers to know if they could carry out those projects with which they wanted to carry out their families. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not find anything new if I say that our tourism sector is in a situation of extreme vulnerability, and less bad that in Citizens we started a tourism plan to this government, which did not want to move a finger, at best, for this strategic sector, for tourism, and has dedicated itself to denouncing it by saying, as Minister Garzón has said, that it does not bring added value. Beyond asking what added value Podemos brings to the Government of Spain, and considering that the Minister of Labour attacked Andalusian agriculture, saying that slavery was practiced, one thing I have clear: an industry is not powerful enough in this country until Podemos tries to defame it and discredit it. I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that tourism is dying for us, that it is dying for us, and that the government is continuing with the patches and wasting time from absolute negligence. And with tourism we destroy jobs and business fabric in all sectors dependent on this real locomotive of wealth and job-generating, including hospitality. What is hospitality? Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are going to put our faces and souls at the hotel. The hospitality, ladies and gentlemen, is the soul of Spain and the bread of many families; it is the bar of our neighborhood and the menu restaurant next to our work; it is where you are given good days as anywhere else; it is where only by looking at yourself, if you go every day, you know what you will take; it is where while you attend a thousand things from the mobile, when you lift your eyes you already have the coffee on top of the table, and you have not even been asked if you want sugar, or whether you like it in glass or in cup. And all that they do with a smile and asking you, how's it going? Hospitality is that place that has the detail of keeping your little iodized salt bottle low in sodium, because they know you have a health problem and they want to take care of you. The hospitality is more than a business, it is a place where we spend a lot of time with our friends and co-workers. When one has worked in hospitality - and I have done it for many years - look at the world differently, understand that there are people on the other side of our leisure, learn to respect everyone, workers and customers. As a friend of mine who runs a bar says: there should be a summer of mandatory hospitality for everyone at the age of eighteen, as a master experience; so we would treat everyone much better and with more respect. Hospitality is the ice cream shop to which we take our children to take their favorite ice cream when one afternoon you have a free space, and also the nightlife where we can enjoy, dance and have a drink with friends when our daily life allows us. Hospitality is that restaurant that we find in the centers of the towns and cities, in ours and in which we visit. The hospitality are those places where we can enjoy in the bar some wines or a good meal with a dessert with our family. Hospitality is also the restaurant that offers high cuisine and competes with restaurants from all over the world to get the long-awaited Michelin star, thus collaborating with the brand Spain, and where many tourists will experience the gastronomic experience of high Spanish cuisine. Let us not forget the catering companies that are dedicated to the celebrations and to providing services in the tourism of congresses, of which little or nothing has been talked about by this government, nor the food trucks that travel to the fairs and local parties throughout our country, nor the self-employed and entrepreneurs who searched for a place and invested everything they had and who take out twenty-five hours a day and risk everything to put in place a project with which to earn a living because it has been the private investment and the effort of the people who have raised up to the hospitality and the tourism. Let's not forget that the hospitality is also all those workers who care for us every day in each of the establishments spending a lot of hours, when others enjoy a leisure time: cooks, pinches, waiters, sommeliers, maîtres, cocktailrs, vincentadores, cleaning staff. In addition, the tourism and hospitality sector is the main customer of many other sectors: wineries, beverage distributors, agri-food farmers, cut flowers, cattle farmers, shellfish farmers and fishermen. In addition, there are a large number of companies that form and form this sector, small and large, that provide services or live in symbiosis: hotels, animators, photographers, tour guides, event organizers, taxi drivers, VTC, rental car companies, musicians, humorists and magicians. They all form a sector that is suffering a great deal today. Even today, Minister, I do not know whether you are aware of the impact that it can have on our economy by leaving the self-employed and tourism companies to their fate. In Citizens we know perfectly well that fighting the COVID means minimizing contacts as far as possible, maintaining the safety distance, not being able to enjoy as before all these establishments. No one needs to tell us, because we were the first to ask for the state of alarm and we managed to agree to reduce the security distance to a meter and a half, always based on scientific criteria, so that thousands of hospitality businesses could survive this crisis. It was a very important step and the hoteliers know it. We know that the virus is still threatening us and it will take us long to enjoy it again as before. And that is exactly what must inspire the government to support this sector unconditionally, confidently and forcefully. We are concerned about the inaction on the part of your ministry, minister, because you are made proposals, you are asked for things, and we always encounter the same answer. They can be responses of two kinds: the first, we have met, we are planning, we are seeing an agreement, we want to draw up a plan, we have done not know how many sectoral committees, or the second, that of the ERTE, the ICOs and the cessation of activity for self-employed people. With this I do not say, of course, that they are not good measures since they are extraordinary, and therefore we proposed them from Citizens and we managed to get them to disconnect from the state of alarm to continue supporting them. They have helped, of course, but we have many more things to say and many more measures to put on the table. Do you think that a self-employed person who has a bar in a neighborhood can cover his or her fixed expenses and feed his or her family exclusively with the cessation benefit? Do you think that a restaurant, a hotel, a travel agency and its workers may be waiting, literally, until the last minute to see if the government finally decides to expand the ERTE and include them? Because, I have to remind all your ladies and gentlemen and the Minister that in this last negotiation the tourist and hospitality sector began outside. Do you think that any of the entrepreneurs in the sector - who knows him well - will be going to apply for an ICO credit without knowing whether with their activity they will be able to re-enter enough money to face the repayment payments of this credit in time? Madam Minister, the hospitality sector and that of all these tourism-related companies, large and small, from the inland or from the coast, need specific support for this, because I do not exaggerate when I say that they are on the brink of an abyss. If the Government does not act by implementing specific measures for them, they will lose everything and it will be irrecoverable. Did you hear them on the street? Have you heard what they're asking? Explained in another way, the business fabric of the tourism sector contributes 13.2% to the gross domestic product, creates 2.5 million jobs and very much more economic activity and more jobs indirectly. We have to ask for the families, for the workers, for the self-employed, for everyone; we have to ask for them, and more after the agreement reached yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, you have negotiated as irresponsiblely as possible; you have strained the talks waiting until the last minute. In short, they have played with business and with the expectations of millions of workers and businesses, and it is not welcome, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it was only one day before the ERTE and the aid to the self-employed could be extended; they did not fall for a single day. Yesterday they were announced, today it will be published and tomorrow the extension will apply; late, ladies and gentlemen, but at least it has arrived. Do you realize that millions of citizens have been holding their breath for months, looking to the government for solutions and waiting until the last minute? That's your project, that's your planning: the last minute. The Spaniards don't deserve it, ladies and gentlemen. Stop mocking the Spaniards, please, because the ERTE negotiations and aid have been a mockery. Instead of working to reassure our country's self-employed workers, they have focused on crude negotiating strategies to achieve what we don't know, but to anger the social partners and frighten the Spaniards it has served. You have made a commitment to go after the virus; Citizens met with representatives of the hotel industry and tourism in Spain in March, and in April we presented the first measures: a plan to support the tourism and hospitality sector. However, after a disastrous summer, today we still have to ask them to attend to this whole sector. What about Christmas? What's going to happen to Christmas? Is there going to be Christmas? Are there going to be end-of-year parties? Is there going to be zambombas in my land? It seems to me that if we continue like this, it will be very difficult to continue the holiday season and that tourists can get here. Minister, there is a sector that needs answers, new answers; it needs solutions, more solutions; it needs security and not uncertainty. The prize certainly compensates, as the reward for doing a serious and conscientious job cannot be better because it means having a quiet conscience and sleeping every day quiet. Being responsible for the happiness of millions of Spaniards requires giving the maximum. If they don't do it now, when do they plan to do it? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u193	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for asking me because it allows me to explain at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies the measures that the Government has put in place to support the tourism sector and the hospitality industry since the beginning of the pandemic. The value chain of tourism is one of the economic activities most affected by the current health crisis of the coronavirus; we are, Your Honor, very aware of this. In recent months I have visited many tourist destinations and I have seen the difficult situation facing the sector because of the lack of confidence in travel, but especially because of the restrictions on mobility imposed by our main issuing markets, due to the unfavourable evolution of the pandemic in our country. During this time I have also had a fluid dialogue with the representatives of the autonomous communities, also with representatives of the entire value chain, with which we have agreed an ambitious package of measures with two priority objectives that you pointed out: firstly, to protect businesses and workers, and secondly, to revive the sector. Mr President, so far we have mobilised more than EUR 25 billion to support the tourism sector, and we have done so because this government has a commitment to the sector; tourism is a priority on the political agenda for this government. Never before, Your Honor, have so many resources been mobilized to support the tourism sector of this country. We have approved, as I said, an ambitious shock plan with cross-cutting and multisectoral measures aimed mainly at maintaining employment through, as you have pointed out, the flexibility of ERTs, also the extraordinary provision of self-employed people, the injection of liquidity to businesses, the postponement of taxes and social contributions or measures relating to the leasing of business premises and also mortgage debt moratoriums. The tourism sector, Your Honor, has been the main beneficiary of this safety net. Yesterday, we even reinforced this protection network for tourism activities, considering it to be an overprotected sector in the new regulation of ERTE which, as I pointed out, was adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers. I will give you just a few examples of the effectiveness of these measures which we have adopted and which I thank your parliamentary group for their support in the parliamentary process. Your Honor, over 115 000 tourism, leisure and cultural companies have been financed through the ICO line of endorsements with a financing amount of more than EUR 15,100 million, to which is to be added 400 million and about 5000 operations from the Thomas Cook COVID-19 line for the tourism sector and related activities. You were talking about hospitality and talking about people. See: hotels, restaurants, airlines, passenger companies, travel agencies are among the main beneficiaries of this aid. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about mobilizing more than EUR 15.5 billion for companies to have liquidity and to endure. But, ladies and gentlemen, more than 147 000 companies in the tourism sector have welcomed the relaxation of ERTs. The ERTEs in the toughest months of the pandemic have protected more than a million workers - those, Your Honor, to whom you referred - and the new regulation improves their protection and gives peace of mind, Your Honor, to companies and workers as the demand recovers. The extraordinary termination benefit that we recovered yesterday has benefited more than 420 000 self-employed, with a cost of EUR 12 billion, and tourist companies, as I said, have also been the most benefited by the mortgage debt moratorium: 2086 hoteliers have taken up this measure until 31 July, bearing a cost of EUR 731 million. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to be very clear, because all this aid that has benefited the tourism sector, as I said - more than EUR 25 billion that we have mobilised - has been authorised by the European Commission under the shock plan to alleviate the effects of COVID-19. I repeat, all aid has been authorised under the temporary framework of State aid. But you should also know that we have also implemented other measures, such as the tourism sustainability plans that we will adopt today at the sectoral conference that we will hold with the autonomous communities, the support for the digitisation of smart tourist destinations or the State Financial Fund for Tourism Competitiveness. Therefore, Your Honor, with all this objective data that I am giving you, it is hardly credible that you have asked me about the absence of measures put in place by the Government to ensure the survival of business and jobs in hospitality and related sectors. We do not want to be complacent because the situation, as you pointed out, is very complex until we have the vaccine or effective treatments, but what I have just given you are arguments, Your Honor, that are unquestionable facts of the extraordinary deployment that this Government has made to support the tourism sector. These measures, Your Honor, have cushioned the social and economic impact of the crisis and are also very useful in initiating economic recovery as soon as possible. A recovery, Your Honor, for which we have also worked, as we presented in June a plan to boost tourism with EUR 4262 million. This plan consists of twenty-eight measures articulated in five lines of action to regain confidence in Spain as a safe destination, to improve its competitiveness, to reactivate the sector, to strengthen the model of knowledge and tourist intelligence and also to deploy marketing and promotion actions. Within this plan, it highlights the development of twenty-two guides for the reduction of the contagion in the tourism sector, guides that we have coordinated with the Institute for the Spanish Tourist Quality, with the participation of autonomous communities, the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, social agents, associations of the sector, experts and also the Spanish Association of Labor Prevention Services. Without a doubt, these guides have been fundamental to reactivating tourism activity with the maximum health guarantees, but also, as I said, the drive plan contains the plans for tourism sustainability that we will adopt today at the sectoral conference, plans that will undoubtedly entail important improvements for our tourist destinations and that have been very welcome, and I have already announced that we have received 154 requests. I would like to thank from this rostrum the 154 tourist destinations that have presented these plans, as they will certainly allow us to develop comprehensive pioneering projects in the rural environment, but also in mature destinations to improve their competitiveness and their tourist products. We have also promoted measures in the field of worker training, and we have put in place a plan with the Ministry of Labour for the retraining of 70 000 tourism professionals at a cost of EUR 106 million. Your Honor, these are just some of the examples of the measures we have put in place to support, to revive the tourism sector, but you have no doubt, Your Honor, that the government is acting tirelessly to revive the sector. That is why we are also working in other areas that are priorities at European level, calling for uniform measures to ensure safe travel between Member States and to relaunch tourism. We adopted on Monday at the Council of Ministers of the European Union a statement led by Spain which was supported by ten Member States which will undoubtedly allow Europe to be re-established as a safe travel destination, eliminating indiscriminate and disproportionate measures, such as quarantine or travel restrictions, and taking coordinated and predictable measures to give confidence to travellers. We have also called for specific attention to be given to the outermost island regions, including the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, for their high dependence on tourism and air connectivity. We will also ask the Commission on Monday for a European shock plan to rescue the sector with specific support lines, but also for a European travel guarantee fund to ensure the financial liquidity of tourism and aviation, to ensure payment of claims for reimbursement and to enable companies to offer flexible credit vouchers. Secondly, another area of action in which we are working is the plan to relaunch the sector to channel the investments that we are going to receive from the European Union, a plan that will undoubtedly allow the development of tractor projects in the field of tourism and that will be developed jointly with the autonomous communities, municipalities, social and economic actors to relaunch the sector in the medium and long term. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we must also take advantage of this crisis not only to recover growth as soon as possible, but also to meet the challenges facing the sector in the medium and long term, driving its modernisation and the sustainability of the sector towards greater economic and social resilience, but also towards greater social and territorial cohesion. I'll get them to do it together. Businesses and workers, ladies and gentlemen, need certainties, not chrispation. We have proved to be a dialogue government, strengthened agreements with the social partners and agreed support measures with the sector and the autonomous communities and municipalities. We must live up to the moment we are living in and create a climate of confidence to overcome the pandemic together, but also to build the foundations for our country's economic and social recovery. I'm just finishing up, Madam President. We must work together and together because there is a long way to go. That is why it is so important to give security and certainty in the next steps that we develop to relaunch the tourism sector of our country, because they will agree with me that we are playing the future of the sector. Since the start of the pandemic, we have demonstrated, I insist, unquestionable facts that tourism is a priority for this government. We will certainly continue to study further measures to support the sector according to what the situation requires. We have demonstrated this with the ERTEs, both in the recognition of the tourism sector as a protected sector and in the ERTEs of resurgence, supporting the trade and hospitality sectors in the face of administrative restrictions by the control of the pandemic. Your Honor, you have the clear commitment of this minister and this government to reach agreements, to work together, to cooperate. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with words that the President shared in a tweet on World Tourism Day that we celebrated last Sunday. The president said: Tourism is key to Spain and is a priority on the government's agenda. Let's work on your recovery to turn this crisis into an opportunity to drive a more competitive and sustainable model. Betting on him is betting on our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. The next item is Mrs Martínez Granados.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u195	Thank you, President. Minister, thank you very much for your answer, but I have to tell you that I find the same answer again. Two or three weeks ago, the Secretary of State for Tourism and the Secretary of State for Trade attended the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism, and answered the same questions you have answered here today: meetings with the sector and with the autonomous communities; drawing up plans; a lot of investment and a lot of money at stake for the sector. For the hoteliers have not yet seen the EUR 25 billion; the majority of the hoteliers still need much more help. You've talked about ICO credits, but they're credits you have to return. How will ICO credits be returned if the sector is not really reactivated? That's the question I have. Is there going to be any other help? Are you going to implement other measures in case that happens? That's getting ahead of the plans. ERTE is the big measure for all sectors, but I was asking you about specific measures for this sector, measures for now. It is clear that the sector needs to be rebuilt from this crisis, but that will take time. Money will be needed and it will be necessary to arrive in time to present these plans on 15 October in the European Union for all these funds to arrive. And consensus will also be needed, they have to listen to the rest of the political forces. We have recorded a lot of measures and so I passed it on to your secretaries of state; I gave them my phone and my email to get in touch with us. We have a lot of measures, we have talked to the sector and we know it first hand, but we have to do it now. Long-term reconstruction plans are necessary for the tourism sector, they want them and they also thank it, but what about for now? What if there's no Christmas? What if there are no celebrations? What if there are no company meals? What if the congresses that also moved a number of tourism companies that are now paralysed are not being held again? What if we can't have weddings and other celebrations between now and the end of the year? That's the problem, the problem we have now. The problem is that we have to get ahead to finish the year without losing more companies, which many have already closed. There are a lot of self-employed people who can't keep working because there's no place to work and as we expect a lot more time you won't see where to go back. That's the problem, Minister. We need those measures now. Now begins the high season in the Canary Islands. What are you going to do in the Canary Islands? We need specific measures. That EUR 25 billion has not been made available to the hospitality industry, which is being communicated to us by the ministry. From Citizens will always find our hand stretched out, the government from the first minute of the state of alarm has always found our hand stretched out. They know, because they have counted on the loyalty of Citizens since the first day, that they have two ways to face this enormous crisis that is involving us: on the one hand, they have the way of separatists, populists and blackmails, privileges and grievances and not a single good idea for Spain, or on the other, they have the way of Citizens, that of useful opposition, that of proposals, the responsible, the serious, the rigorous, the moderate, the one that listens to the sector. You have to take the right path for the good of the Spaniards, for the good of the tourism sector, for the good of the hospitality sector. You have millions of jobs and lives in your hands, thousands of SMEs and self-reliant people are holding your breath and we need to give them a break, and they need it now. Let us save tourism, let us save hospitality among all, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u196	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, you ended up with a shared goal and it is that we have to save, but we also have to reactivate the tourism sector. I have wanted to transfer data that are unquestionable of the measures we have implemented to support the tourism sector, not only shock plans that are actually being effective. You said that the hospitality or other sectors of the value chain have not seen the measures we have implemented, but I have to say yes. In fact, yesterday when the third social agreement was adopted, the value chain of the tourism sector is within the overprotected sectors. We have therefore strengthened this measure to ensure that the sector is effectively protected while laying the groundwork for recovery. However, we have to do this together - I certainly share this reflection - and that is why it is also important to control the pandemic. You have responsibilities not only in the management of pandemic control, you also have responsibilities in the field of tourism; you have them in some autonomous communities where you govern with the People's Party and I would also like these actions to support the tourism sector in the autonomous communities where you govern to be reflected in the support for the sector. This is not always the case, Your Honor, and I would like to point out to you that I ask your autonomous communities to make sure that they are also making efforts not only to control the pandemic but also to reactivate the tourism sector. I was concerned, Your Honor, that at the sectoral conference at which today we are going to approve the tourism sustainability plans Andalusia has not presented any tourism sustainability plans of destination. And it has worried me because, if we all have to hoist our shoulders, you also have to hoist them in the autonomous communities where they rule, Your Honor, because we need to control the pandemic. You asked if we're going to have Christmases, we're going to have Christmases, it can be a normal Christmas or it can be a Christmases, actually, where we live with the pandemic. And we're working to look at all the scenarios. For us the priority is reactivation, we are working on the recovery plan of the sector so that, in fact, the funds of the European Union can be channelled. I have said this before in my question, funds that will be channelled through the 2021 State General Budgets and for which we hope to have the support but not only of your parliamentary group but also of this House as a whole. We dialogue with all the political forces, we dialogue with all the autonomous communities regardless of the political party that governs them, we dialogue with all the representatives of the sector, but that dialogue leads to the facts and the facts are that we have mobilised: 25 billion euros. No Government had ever mobilized so many resources to support the tourism sector. I am convinced that this minister and this government will continue to work on reactivation of the sector. We ask you, of course, that where you have competence in the tourism field, you draw your shoulder and also support the sector all because everything adds up. And where they have competence, Your Honor, they also develop all the necessary measures that health experts are telling them to control the pandemic. If we don't control the pandemic, it's going to be very difficult to save the tourism sector. So let us also work with the autonomous communities where they govern to control the pandemic and so that we can all save lives and save tourism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the political management of the Government, the defence of the rule of law and the constitutional order. [[File number 172/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u199	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the political management of the Government, the defence of the rule of law and constitutional order. Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will begin this inquiry by expressing on behalf of my group our firm commitment to the Transition and to the constitutional framework represented by the Constitution of 78, that framework of coexistence which we all Spaniards have given ourselves and which has brought us the greatest stage of collective progress at the hands of the social and democratic rule of law, with the parliamentary monarchy - yes - and with the Head of State, too. [[Applauds]] We live in a great country, besieged by a pandemic and a deep depression from the economic point of view. And while the Spaniards are busy protecting their lives and jobs, you are taking advantage of it to promote a serious political and institutional crisis. Spain suffers a cascade of attacks against its democratic institutions from within the government itself and from all its investiture partners. This offensive, unprecedented in our democratic history, has already reached the highest judicial level in the State. As Minister of Justice and senior notary of the Kingdom, Mr Campo, I assume that you have taken good note of these events. I am already asking you a question so that you can think about the answer: Who gave you the instruction so that the head of state did not come to Barcelona last week? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Yes, sir!]] Because radicalism, populism and independence have waged a war against the model of coexistence and the constitutional order born four decades ago of harmony and reconciliation. That sectarian offensive against the institutions of our rule of law has been facilitated by the weakness, complicity and lack of scruples of the President of the Government who, after a democratic victory in the polls, voluntarily decided to fall into the arms of all the enemies of constitutional Spain. Mr Sánchez is, therefore, the first and last responsible for everything that is going on and you, Mr Campo, have become the minister of this injustice too. [[Applauds]] These attacks go far beyond the usual political pragmatism of Podemos, the prime partner of the Socialist Party in the government, are not unrelated because what we actually witness is a constituent and revolutionary operation behind the back of the Constitution itself. You yourself recognized it here when you said: Together with the constituent crisis we also have a constituent debate and we have to do so among all of us. And he added, referring to the independenceists: We can't leave anyone out. If we were benevolent, we would think that the Socialist Party is suffering from a very serious variant of the Stockholm syndrome because it is hostage to all the anti-system parties; the problem is that the Socialist Party has joined these maneuvers of institutional deverberation with the fury of the convert. Ladies and gentlemen, my question is divided into three sections. The first, the government's attempt to control the judiciary; the second, the surrender of the rule of law to Bildu and the independenceists; and the third, the revision of our entire model of coexistence. The first of these is the Government's attempt to control the judiciary. A gradual erosion of the foundations of our rule of law, the corrosion of these institutional counterweights and the invasion of the balance of power have been a constant feature of all the political action of the Government since the very day of the inauguration of its president. The short circuit of the prosecutor's office in the hands of her predecessor, Mrs. Delgado, the submission and manipulation of independent organs - no longer so much - of the State and the indiscriminate attacks on judicial organs by Pablo Iglesias, leader of a party accused of illegal financing, are just a few palm cases of this offensive against the division of powers, the integrity of our institutions and judicial independence. The second of the paragraphs, the surrender of the rule of law to Bildu and the independenceists, because their political action has as corollary the rewrite chapter by chapter of the account of the great victories of the rule of law against those who from armed coup, criminal terrorism or the seditious uprising tried to blow up in a thousand pieces. You have gone far beyond every political scruple. The whitening as a parliamentary interlocutor of a formation such as Bildu, heir to ETA, which killed almost a thousand Spaniards is the most immoral attack that has been launched from the palace of Moncloa to the line of flotation of the constitutional consensus. [[Applauds]] And not everything goes well, although everything goes well for this government so far as to remain in power, as the spokesman of Bildu said in this very rostrum to make clear the ethical involution of the Socialist Party - I say quotes -: 'Paradoxes of life, today is the day that after three decades of trying to end the Basque independenceist left, it turns out that we are here conditioning the Government of Spain and the laws that this Congress approves.' - I close quotes. Minister, how do you feel about these claims? Where did the Transitional Socialist Party go? Is there really anything left of that party? Not a year and a half ago Vice President Calvo said the following - and I'm reopening quotes -: 'We're not going to support Bildu. For us these red lines are red lines and the socialists, with our flaws and virtues, are very reliable. Everyone knows what we can abide by, what our principles are and the lines we do not pass. - Close quotes. Looks like an ice age has passed since Mrs. Calvo's statement. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist bench, the rapprochement of ETA prisoners and their pacts with Bildu, that is their personal contribution to the democratic memory of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] History is not written by politicians but by historians, and that will be the only democratic memory that will be remembered by future generations of this twilight socialism. After the victory of Spanish society in the face of the independence challenge, again today you are defrauding the Spanish by politically pardoning what our legal system dictated. Disabled Mr. Torra seems that the government already has the green light of Republican Esquerra to continue humiliating all the Spaniards and resume its table for self-determination, whose only point of the agenda is the destruction of territorial integrity and the final point of the historical continuity of Spain as a nation. And you are also open, Minister, to two other parallel ways of assigning separatists, as you yourself announced in this House exactly a week ago. On the one hand, he will begin the proceedings of the pardons to the leaders of the coup on 1 October and, on the other, he will also reform the Penal Code in order to end the impunity of some coup prisoners who have made it clear that they will re-offend. What do you mean? Reduce the sentences of convicts? Facilitate the return of Puigdemont and all the fugitives? Mr Campo, you have passed three mountains, it is the mountains of the rule of law, Minister, that you pass. [[Applauds]] Finally, the review that you are doing of what is our model of coexistence. This arbitrary veto on his majesty the king to attend the handing over of offices of the new promotion of judges in Barcelona clearly shows a government willing to abuse its constitutional prerogatives in a courtship to parties that have declared war on the continuity of the Spanish nation. Frankly, what is embarrassing is to hear a minister of the Kingdom of Spain justify this veto to the king because we must ensure coexistence. Your Honor, only those who break the democratic principles of every rule of law undermine the harmony and coexistence of Catalan society, fracture it and confront it, the very ones you intend to please. With your decision, have you thought of the non-independence Catalans, whom you have abandoned? Their conduct means telling them that they are alone, that they do not have the support and solidarity of the rest of the Spaniards and that our rule of law is not a guarantee for them in the defence of their freedoms and their rights. We in the People's Party do not resign ourselves to that. Co-existence is the right of all Spaniards to democratically decide our life in common. What is causing a lot of trouble and a tremendous democratic displeasure is to listen to you, Mr Campo, because from your words what can be inferred is that for you and for Mr Sánchez the visit of the Head of State to Barcelona posed a danger to coexistence. I remind him of the hope he had for millions of Catalans and for millions of Spaniards for the speech of King Philip VI on October 3. Every time you have a doubt go to that speech and see how it comforts you what coexistence means. [[Applauds]] As Minister of Justice you promised for your conscience and honor to fulfill your duties with loyalty to the king. Doesn't he have an atom of courage and democratic principles left to defend the head of state? Do you condemn the attacks by Mr. Iglesias, Mr. Garzón and Mr. Castells on the Head of State? Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, answer today and speak clearly to the Spaniards: do they reprobate them, yes or no? What will be the price of budgets for our democracy? How far are you willing to go? What they have to do is stop negotiating the spending ceiling in the basement of democracy, because it is not negotiated with Spain. [[Applauds]] If they persist in that diversion, they will have us in front of them, and they will have us in front and on our feet with all the democratic firmness of this party, which is a state party that was born to defend freedom. And our freedom as citizens gives it to us one of the brightest democracies in the world, which is based on the same constitutional order that one part of the government intends to destroy with the complacent mutism of the other. Before, now, in the opposition and sooner rather than later in the government, in case you want to tell your fellow Churches, this party, the People's Party, will never leave the Spanish helpless. Before and after the ballot box instructs us to repair its economic and social wreckage again, before and after the Spanish entrust us with the responsibility of opening a new cycle of employment and prosperity, we will be flying the flag of our freedoms in the face of sterile attempts to liquidated our constitutional order. Sterilized, yes, Minister, because Spanish democracy is much stronger than all its enemies. Let us make use of all the democratic resources at our disposal to defend our rule of law, gentlemen of the Government, and keep this in mind, and keep one thing in mind: first the Socialist Party will be broken than the Spanish nation. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. On behalf of the Government, I now call on the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gamarra, I was beginning your words by talking about the strength your party has and the courage they have when they fulfil the constitutional commitment. I would like to see that constitutional commitment in the renewal of the constitutional bodies, that is the commitment to the Constitution: to fulfil it! [[Applauds]] But no, you are part-time constitutionalists, part-time!; only their mouths are filled with words. But the commitment to the state, to the citizens is the facts, and that is what I would like to talk to you about. I see very little original this week. I have just answered a question to his colleague about the fit-up to the Government's political project and he is now questioning the defence of the rule of law and constitutional order. I repeat it: little original, a little obsessed and even, if I may - I say it with temperance - distasteful. I would have liked to see that bench yesterday, when we were talking about housing and citizens' problems, as it is now, which is what it should always be, but no, I see that there are some issues that interest them and that citizens' problems and needs are at the back. [[Applauds]] It seems - I say it only seems - that their desire is that all the policies they do not like are illegal, unconstitutional and, of course, immoral, unjust and all that plethora of qualifications with which they have been dispatched. But it turns out that, as I have just reminded Mr Rojas, neither the rule of law nor the constitutional order is determined today by the People's Party. Allow me, Your Honor, another initial appreciation, because you, of so much colliding with the tree, never finish seeing the forest: The Constitution which you invoke so much but which you read so little and which you so much resist to fulfill says that Spain is a social and democratic state of law. But why do you always forget the part where it says social and democratic? What's going on, that's allergy, lack of interest? Because I'm not done finding out. But it's not good for democracy. Look, if you continue to read the same article 1 of the Constitution you will see that there are higher values, and those higher values of the legal system are very powerful: freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism. Don't forget, the game of alterity is important in a democracy. Don't forget, Your Honor, none of the three adjectives that our Constitution uses to define our legal framework, and don't forget the inspiring principles either, because that and not what you think is appropriate is our constitutional order. Your Honor, do not attempt to define the constitutional legal framework for all of us, let alone the privilege of saying which policies must remain within and which ones. The Government not only acts within the constitutional order, but has the active commitment, alive to develop it with enormous fullness. Our political project seeks to increase something as simple as the capacities of our State to meet those objectives and higher values: freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism. We are consolidating, and we should do so among all, a social and democratic rule of law. As I have already had the opportunity to say today in this House, the draft country that defends and develops this government concretely this definition and constitutional aspiration in a programme with four clear pillars, four axes: social justice, that social justice that they have not supported since these benches; defence of public services, which have largely destroyed in recent years; freedom and territorial cohesion. And we continue there, ladies and gentlemen, on that path of defending constitutional values and today that path necessarily focuses, and above electoral interests, on protecting the health of our citizens. Also in preserving their basic needs in the face of the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic, guaranteeing a dignified life for no one to stay behind. Therefore, let us not be mistaken, the Government is very clear where the focus should be and right now it should be in the health of the Spaniards, and that is what we are dedicated to, without neglecting, of course, other areas of management. Every time I come to this House I get the feeling that this priority is not shared by all groups, yours seems to continue with your prepandemic obsessions and insists over and over again on trying to throw Catalonia at the head of the government. Anyway, I'm surprised how Marxists you're doing over time. Groucho Marx said politics is the art of searching for problems, finding them, making a false diagnosis and then applying the wrong remedies. This is how you go, fulfilling the recipe step by step from those collected from signatures against the Catalan statute 14 years ago to your current opposition to dialogue or the accusations you make today in this House. With regard to pardons, we are clearly adjusting to the law that regulates them. I encourage you to read it. Or does the People's Party intend that we breach the law and keep the petitions in the drawer depending on who the applicant is? Your Honor, you're not gonna find us there. In order to teach constitutionalism, the Constitution and the legal system must be known in their entirety. Also that law of 1870. [[Applauds]] I must remind you that in Spain the fundamental rights and public freedoms of all, of all and of all are respected, do not sow arbitrary and disheartened doubts also about the necessary and compulsory processing of pardons because they can only be evidenced. We expect more from you, ladies and gentlemen. They refer again to the criminal types of the sedition, you have brought it back to me here, and I see myself in the obligation to reiterate to them what I have been holding in an already tiring way: this reform is nothing new, the President of the Government announced it in his investiture speech, but, in addition, it is an article that knows very well that it was discussed in FAES in 2008 and it is an article that drags almost two hundred years into its factual normative description. In particular, the crime of sedition was incorporated into our order in 1822 and as such was designed to give legal response to a conduct peculiar to that, exactly two hundred years ago. The Ministry of Justice is also the Ministry of Legislation and, among many other duties, we have an obligation to improve it technically, adapting it to the social context in which we live. This facilitates the work of judges for the benefit of the citizenry and responds proportionally. Do not forget that word, Mrs Gamarra, proportionality to attacks on coexistence and our legislation is deficient in these articles. Everyone says so, observe the comparative law of our environment and also observe the difficulties that obsolete legislation brings to our judicial system, in particular within the framework of the European Union. Look, nowadays it cannot be legislated in abstract or small, it is always necessary to resort to comparative law, especially in matters such as criminal law and in a Member State of the European Union. We have a group of countries that have removed the equivalent of our sedition. For example, Germany eliminated this crime as early as 1970, a reform, by the way, known in the doctrine precisely for its deep liberal and guarantor spirit. That suppression in no way meant impunity. It is not necessary to be frightened or to be trembling because the behaviors previously collected for this crime were led to the breaking or disturbing of public order. As I see it writing down, I say, Article 125 of the German Code. A crime is focused on violent acts committed by a crowd against persons or things that endanger public security, which is punished - listen carefully - with a custodial sentence of up to three years. In ours, as you well know, the penalties can reach fifteen years. A similar case is that of France, a country very close to our doctrine, where our crime of sedition finds its most affluent figure in the aggravated type of crime of rebellion. Despite the name, it has nothing to do with the rebellion of article 472 of our Criminal Code, but it is an attack on the public administration carried out by individuals through the exercise of violent resistance. Well, the maximum penalty is two years' imprisonment, three years' imprisonment, and thirty thousand euros' fine if committed in a group. When the rebellion is armed, it will rise to five years and only if it is armed and group it will rise to ten. As you will see, we are still on very different thresholds than our own. If we go to Italy, the crime of sedition does not exist as such, and we must refer to the crimes against the public administration in order to find the closest and closest figures. Specifically, I am referring to the crimes of violence and resistance to an official carried out by a plurality of persons assembled. And so I could continue to bore all your lordships. As you can deduce, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of the most sedition-like crimes that we can find in the countries of our environment is linked to clear functions of the State and public order. That is precisely his most constitutional point of view. That is precisely why, because they are genuine crimes against public order, they are punished with very different penalties than ours. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - excuse me - a bit of common sense and especially when we talk about the Penal Code. No more irresponsible and senseless statements. Finally, I will address the issue of handing over the offices and the presence of the king. All decisions of the Government are made in defence of the general interest. The absence of his majesty last Friday does not cease to be an agenda evaluation. As I said a while ago, we may be right or wrong, but I do not allow you to question the respect of this government for the monarchy, let alone that of this minister. [[A Member of Parliament: Come on now!-Rumors]] Do you think they do the Crown a favor with their attitude, using their majesty as an element of political confrontation?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u203	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u204	If such monarchs declare themselves, they exercise that loyalty and respect to the Crown by ceasing to put the cry in heaven for an agenda item. [[rumors]] As Mr Esteban said recently in this very House, weak favor is given to his majesty and his constitutional neutrality by trying to confront the Head of State with the Executive. [[One honourable Member: shameless!-Another honourable Member: you have no face!- Rumours]] I'm going to disassemble your conspiracy theory. No one has vetoed the king's assistance to Catalonia. [[Several Members: No, no, no!]] In fact - look at you - Catalonia is the autonomous community... [[Rumors]] Listen, please, a little quiet. Catalonia, along with Andalucia, is the community that has trodden our monarch the most. He's done it on thirty-eight occasions. And since we have conspiracy theories, I suppose you will have been greatly surprised by the ruling recently handed down by the Supreme Court, which confirms President Torra's disqualification. According to your approach, it would certainly have been normal for this separatist government to manipulate justice so that the sentence would be acquittal, but the prosecutor's office - woe!, the one to which you permanently accuse of the seven plagues - opposed the appeal and supported the sentence imposed in court. Everything within the normality with which our Administration of Justice usually operates and very far - far, ladies and gentlemen - from its obsessive terraplanism. They respect the administration of justice more. Respect her and support her because surely the citizens will thank her. It seems there is only conspiracy and manipulation when the trial result is not to your liking. Wow! The PP - it is already known - is not only the maximum and only interpreter of the constitutional order, but it tells us all when justice is manipulated by social-communism and when it is impartial. Yours, ladies and gentlemen, is Marxism, but - I insist - Groucho. I'm done, Madam President. Perhaps the most striking thing about this interpellation is that the PP, which continues to be anointed by the three powers of the State, precisely comes to touch us with the Constitution while openly and shamelessly refuses to comply with it. It is no longer a beam in one's own eye, ladies and gentlemen, it is a defachation that goes beyond the limits of institutional loyalty. Read the European Commission's report in the newspapers today. It's no longer holding. Comply with the Constitution and cease to be part-time constitutionalists. I'm sure Spain will thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u205	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. I give the floor to Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u206	Look, Minister, I have listened to you very carefully and, starting with the start of your speech, I am sorry to disappoint you but it is that the People's Party does not pretend to be original, what we intend to be is the real People's Party. What we invite the Socialist Party is to stop trying to be original by abandoning the Socialist Party that the Socialists defend, even starting with Felipe González. We will go further, because you have started talking about Article 1 of the Constitution and it draws my attention - we know it perfectly well - but it is that you have left yourself, I do not know if intentionally, paragraph 3 - will be in order not to offend a certain part of your Government - the political form of the Spanish State is the parliamentary monarchy. [[Applauds]] Article 1, paragraph 3, because you wanted to give us so many lessons on the constitutional text. [[Applauds]] We from the first article to the last, including the provisions. And let us go to the three sections that I referred to in the inquiry and to which I have to say that you have not answered very correctly. The first is the control of the judiciary by the Government. It is too obvious to bring to light, when you have no other kind of defences, the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, which has been shown not to be blocked for what is the renewal of judicial bodies. But, look, what's drawing my attention is that you're bothered by one more live king! that the attacks of Pablo Iglesias on the judges. [[Applauds]] That's what we're really worried about. And, furthermore, since you like to respect the constituent so much, because there is no constituent crisis, I will remind you of that qualified majority of Article 122 of the Spanish Constitution. Aren't you unable to reach an agreement? Because you prefer agreements with those with whom you govern and defend your majority from the investiture than with us. That's the key. Speaking of the General Council of the Judiciary, the problem is not the People's Party, the problem you have in your colleagues on the Council of Ministers, because it is the General Council of the Judiciary itself that has had to issue two communiqués - 23 April and 9 August - in relation to the second vice-president. That is what you should be worried about, that on the very bench of the Council of Ministers, at that table, you sit with the one who offends and weakens the separation of powers. [[applause]] As far as the Prosecutor's Office is concerned, Minister, what assessment does it make of the reflection that the European institutions are making today on an appointment of the Attorney General of the State which does not seem very independent at European level? Do you have anything to say about this? The second aspect concerns the surrender of the rule of law to Bildu and the independenceists. Minister, after the lesson you have wanted to give us on pardon and also on the crimes of rebellion and sedition, first of all here you have given us the key to all this and it is that reform itself is the President of the Government who announces it in the investiture debate. And I say: why do you do it in the investiture debate? Is it why you made some kind of commitment to some of the parties that supported you in your investiture debate? [[Applauds]] Because at that time there were a lot more important things for millions of Spaniards than the crime of sedition and rebellion, but for some of the Members who had to vote here the crime of sedition and rebellion was very important. That is the key that at this political moment in which you say that you are focused on fighting the pandemic and the economic crisis, you are focusing your efforts on the reform of the Criminal Code on two crimes, that of sedition and that of rebellion. You have told us about a lot of countries, but tell me if there are any politicians in all those countries who are currently in their prisons serving sentences for a crime of sedition or rebellion. None, it only happens in this country. And while you're in jail, you're reforming that article in the Penal Code. The political moments matter and you are doing so right now because it responds to a political commitment, and it is not hidden because it is perfectly reflected in the agreement for the creation of a table between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat when they speak of overcoming the judicialization of the same. These are the keys, and the Spaniards aren't dumb enough not to realize what's going on here. So we think very well of his comparative law lessons, but he does not compare us with other countries because only in this country are there prisoners in prisons serving sentences for sedition and rebellion while the Government is reforming those articles of the Criminal Code that will have a retroactive effect on their convictions. And this is the only country that has also runaway politicians who are also affected by this cause and have not yet appeared in court. That is what you should be focusing on and not reforming the Penal Code to make the conduct you have carried out cheaper. On the other hand, Minister, and on the basis of coexistence, this is not just a question of the People's Party, it is that you believe that we have seen something...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u207	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u208	I'm finishing up, Your Honor. ... weird and it's the fruit of our imagination, but what's happening in this country is what you're causing. Otherwise, someone as unsuspecting of being in the People's Party as Felipe González would not be questioning and criticizing the budgetary negotiation that you are conducting. Have you not just abandoned all the principles and also the ethical commitment of the Socialist Party? I think that's where the keys to that coexistence are that you're violating. Because, Minister, you are talking about agreements and the need to keep moving forward, and you know very well that with this party we are reaching agreements; last week, without going any further, in the parliamentary seat and in relation to laws that you have urged. There, when it comes to such agreements, there will be the People's Party, but in what is not the People's Party it is in that operation that you are carrying out. Besides, I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u209	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u210	I'm finishing up. With regard to questioning the parliamentary monarchy, you have just accused us, the People's Party, of questioning the parliamentary monarchy, and I ask you: what opinion do you deserve from the reflections and statements you have made regarding the parliamentary monarchy, three of your colleagues in the Council of Ministers, Mr Iglesias, Mr Castells and Mr Garzón? Because from Garzón to Garzón here what is happening is that constitutional order is constantly being violated. Finally...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u211	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please. Interpellations have an estimated time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u212	Minister, I simply hope that you will answer all these questions on this last shift. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u213	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, I thank you a little bit for the low pitch in this second intervention, but there is a reflection that I do not refrain from doing to you from the first second. He began his first intervention - I heard it very carefully - by saying that they embraced the Transition. Me too, but the transition is dialogue, it's talking to the other, the game of alterity, and that's what they're not practicing today. Believe what they say because always, always, the facts fail them but the words say them beautiful. It has introduced a repetition of elements. Don't look where there isn't, don't look for elements of confrontation because with this minister it's going to be quite difficult. I will find myself in the agreement and the agreement is in justice - and justice with capitals - and justice is the legal order, because I have told you that this is a ministry of legislation and this ministry will promote all those reforms that it believes are good for the coexistence of the Spaniards, of all the Spaniards, not only those that you like. And that will be discussed in this House in its day and everyone will be able to express and have all the relevant reports. Don't think, don't look for suspicion, look for normality. Seek to grow in our democracy, in our social and democratic state, which is also governed by law. [[Mr. García Aegeana utters words that are not perceived.- Rumors]] Yes, Mr. Theodoro, yes, please. Listen, he just hears himself. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u216	I'll tell you one thing. Do not seek confrontation between this government and the monarchy, because they will not find it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u217	Minister, just a moment. Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel, please respect the speaker, who is the speaker in the rostrum, the Minister of Justice. I'm asking for silence, please. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u218	Thank you, Madam President. At the end of his speech, I asked what opinion I deserved from the three manifestations of the members of the Government. I have said that in Parliament, I do not share them, and I think they are very clear about what I have said. But I also tell you one thing, I will defend to the last drop the right of each Spanish to exercise his or her freedom of expression, because I am also guaranteeing that citizens can be realized with expression and manifestation, because the word holds everything. All ideas are respectable and we will have to see the possibility of conjugating majorities to transform realities. That is the game of democracy. That is why I was telling Mr Gil Lázaro this morning that the problem is what Spain wants to build. I want to build a Spain in which we all, also the dissenters, but I want us to do it according to certain guidelines. That's why I don't tear my clothes because someone's pardoned me. In case you don't know, everyone who asks for a pardon has a final conviction; otherwise, they wouldn't ask. They have therefore violated the legal order in accordance with the provisions of judgments and judicial decisions. If you were in the government, would you really not process the pardon? Wouldn't they handle it? They're taking me to thicker words. Power is exercised by complying with the law and by complying with it in everything, in what I like and in what I don't. I ask you what you would really do. How do you think this Minister of Justice might not process pardons? I have explained to you that two thousand a year are being recorded and four thousand are being resolved. There's a jam. We have come to the Committee on Justice to explain all the details in a transparent manner. I have said here that it is up to them and that they will be dealt with. Mrs. Gamarra, what do you want this Minister of Justice to do? Don't treat them? Well, you're not going to find me there, because I'm going to process these and all of them, even some day those of those who might be in their ranks. It doesn't matter. The rule of law is strong enough. What I'm really asking you to do is work. He knows that from this ministry we fostered dialogue and I have publicly thanked both his spokesman and his parliamentary group for the effort they made to bring forward texts, because that is what Spanish citizens demand of us and in that he will find us. Soon I will come up with new laws that I hope we can discuss and that with their contributions they will come out richer. But let's create everything and not just that part that interests me, because this minister of justice who is part of the government complies with the law because he believes it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u219	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u220	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, on the Government's plans to address the greatest impact of the crisis in the Canary Islands due to its unique features and its reflection on the State's general budgets for the year 2021. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u221	Madam President, thank you very much. The truth is, this is one of those cases where I need half an hour that I don't have. I only have seven minutes to try to simplify a complex issue. This motion is the result of an inquiry that I defended last Tuesday and in which I think I explained to you why the singularities of the Canary Islands are not a whim or an invention; why the enormous dependence on tourism that the Canary Islands has, at this difficult time in which the sector most affected is tourism, can lead us to a situation that is potentially catastrophic and of social failure, and we also told you what we thought had to be done, in my opinion, in an absolutely objective way. [[The Lord]] We have not come here to propose gifts, or additional benefits on others, but to propose a response to the uniqueness of the Canary Islands. Consider some last-minute data as an example. I can tell you that unemployment in the second quarter in the Canary Islands has increased by 15% compared to 8%, which is the average of the state. In EPA terms, the unemployment rate in the Canary Islands is 21.5 %, compared to an average of 15.3 % in the State. I can also tell you that GDP in the second quarter in the Canary Islands has fallen by 36, 27 points... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u222	One moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent and, if you are going to leave the seats, to do so with as little noise as possible.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u223	Thank you. ... compared to 22.1 points in the rest of Spain, 14 points of difference. I think this makes it perfectly clear what we're talking about. Before I continue - in case I may have difficulties over time - I want to explain what our attitude will be towards the amendments of the various groups. I am grateful to the VOX Group for its amendments, but I am sure that they understand that we are in extremely remote positions with regard to the conception of the State and the powers of the Canarian Community, which is why, by thanking the effort, we cannot logically agree. We have to thank the Group of the European People's Party for a well-documented and worked amendment. I have had the opportunity to speak with the responsible spokesperson on this subject, but I have already said that we are trying to go into a transaction. We have tried a transaction until the last second and we have some difficulties, we have some discrepancies as to the conception of the Ministry of Finance about what to do with a very relevant amount for the Canary Islands. They are the 516 million euros that Canarias has won in final judgment of the Supreme Court for non-compliance of the State in its time of the Convention of Highways Canary-State. That is to say, a circumstance that only occurs in the Canary Islands; there is no community that I know has at this time 516 million euros recognized in a final judgment of the Supreme Court in 2017. I will tell you clearly, the Canary Islands cannot make its budgets if we do not have those EUR 500 million that may be available for the use, defence and promotion of the public services of small business workers, of all those who are having a bad time. That is the discrepancy that we have, which has led us not to be able to formulate a transaction as would have been our wish. This is a matter that must remain on the table but on which we cannot decline in its defense. So it is already a step forward that we will put the point-by-point vote on each of the six points raised by the motion so that it is clear that we cannot dwell on such a question. We believe that there is a debate about what to do with these resources, but I am already advancing that EUR 500 million directed to the Canary Islands to make financially sustainable investments simply means bringing that to surplus and then to remnant, and that is something that simply in a community like ours, with the problems it has raised, cannot be allowed. So, I insist, we are going to ask for the point-by-point vote on the original motion by New Canarias. You will have seen with that motion that we have brought to you and with which we have tortured all of you - we have tortured you because the motion is long, I know - that the canaries have to make an extra effort to explain that when we say that in the Canary Islands we have negative singularities we are telling the truth, we are supporting it in data, we are not inventing anything, nor asking for additional favors over other communities. I have to tell you that for the formulation of acceptable canary budgets to address the situation in which we are facing the target, it has to be about the same numbers as in 2020, and that, as we all know, is insufficient, there should be additional resources and we believe that it is possible. For that we have to look for resources where it is reasonable to have them; on the one hand, from our savings. Well, look, these €516 million are part of our savings, because it's a money that was spent in your day by the community when the state had to put it. It's true that a few years ago, but this is what we're talking about. We are also waiting for the autonomous financing system - we have proposed - to come up with new solutions for 2020, which helped a great deal for all the autonomous communities, not just the Canary Islands, to move forward at a very difficult time. We are in a situation of very significant loss of own resources, and if we associate it with having no more resources we would have to resort to another figure, which is indebtedness. Why? Because the Canarian Community is the least indebted community of the State in relation to gross domestic product. We are therefore raising issues that seem reasonable to us. If Canarias were a community with brutal indebtedness, a product of its irresponsibility, we wouldn't be able to ask for this, but now we are. In the same way that we propose that the extraordinary resources called the New Generation of the European Union, the EUR 72 billion in non-repayable transfers, follow the same distribution criterion applied by the European Union with the Member States, that is, in view of the territorial realities and the real impact of the pandemic on the various territories. We therefore believe that this motion is rigorous. Try to explain things seriously and give a serious answer. We're sorry we couldn't accept a transaction. We are a political force that is going to try to make the new General Budgets of the State prosper, because we believe that this is the general interest, but we need all the elements in question to be clearly recognized by all parties. I end by thanking them for their attention and asking them for support for this motion made by Nueva Canarias, because it is of vital interest to all the autonomous communities and in particular to the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u224	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez intervenes first of all by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. We have already warned here, in the parliamentary seat, with the forecasts of the Istac in hand, and, unfortunately, it happened. In our land, 35% of GDP and 40% of employment depend on tourism. Four million less tourists arrived in these first six months of the year, from this fateful 2020, and obviously stopped spending almost 5 billion. I mean, the disaster was sung, it was insured. We double the growth of unemployment throughout the state and also sadly lead the decline in GDP, and this has to do directly with the productive model imposed on our islands for decades. The damage has been very great, but it could have been even worse. Fortunately, people voted in the polls to a progressive majority that has allowed the deployment of a social shield that has saved the lives of a lot of people and allowed them to arrive at the end of the month, and this is not an opinion, are data: 231,000 people have been covered by ERTE in the Canary Islands, although today there are still 83 000 ERTE workers in our archipelago. That is many people, many families and many businesses that have been able to be covered, thanks to the fact that this Government, instead of cutting and facilitating dismissal, has decided or decided to protect them. The same can be said of self-employed persons: 68 000 self-employed persons have received a cessation benefit in the Canary Islands. A vast majority of them have seen for the first time in decades that the Government is helping them in something. Even so, we know and are aware that there are many people who are staying out of protection, but fortunately, the Canarian Government has implemented the extension of the payment of benefits, so that when the IMV, the minimum income vital, does not arrive, all these families have coverage, and, in case there are duplications, they do not have to return that money. This will also help a lot of people in the archipelago. We must continue to bet that no one is left behind, of course, that is urgency, but the fundamental debate is the model. Last week on the radio, in a debate with the representative of the Canary Coalition - the former president of the Government of the Canary Islands - he said that our claims to diversify the economy were a Chinese tale. I am grateful that we could finally get to the bottom of the debate. A Chinese tale for many canaries and many canaries is the monoculture of tourism. All these years of good governance in the sector left 40% of the island's population at risk of exclusion and poverty, hundreds of thousands of people in structural unemployment and a very high dependence and fragility of our economy, which makes us always the worst when a crisis like this comes. Aspire that the reconstruction funds that come from the state and Europe be used to diversify our economy, our productive fabric, is no Chinese tale. We can, and we must, have better public services that generate thousands of jobs; a care system that puts value on and that pays, of course, for the invisible and exhausting work that thousands of women do in our archipelago; of course, a primary sector that ensures quality and healthy food for our people and also for tourists who visit us, fixing jobs and people in rural areas, who are the most punished in this crisis, and of course an environmental and socially just energy transition. What better time than now to get hold of the plant and make it more energy efficient? Why not have a public pole of renewable energy on the islands, which will make the Canary Islands a centre of energy in the Middle Atlantic for knowledge, production and advice on the production of clean energy and drinking water? This would generate thousands of jobs, as well as quality. Why not take advantage of the resources that come from Europe for that? Because let's not be mistaken, energy sovereignty is not that Iberdrola sells us the mills, installs them and covers us by our wind. This is more of the same, but painted green. As more roads and trains do not solve mobility, mobility is solved with endogenous developments and with jobs distributed throughout the territory and not in certain cores. Data industry, software, culture as a growth vector - there would be multiple options - all of this would generate thousands of jobs and improve the lives of the entire population, and now is the time to do so. Spending public money on pickets and cement is not only deeply unjust and predatory, but it has also been shown to be useless and ineffective. As we say in the Canary Islands, let us not stumble upon the same technique over and over again. It's now or never. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u226	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Echenique used to say about previous interventions, I too have to apologize to all the Spaniards, because the previous speaker seems to have little respect for the State Security Forces and Bodies, and here there is a Member who supports the police and those who defend us. [[Applauds]] Mr Quevedo, the truth is that I cannot fail to recall the last time you were negotiating something about the General Budgets of the State, because a few days later, after having supported the General Budgets of the State, you supported the fall of that same government. I, in case you're interested, want you to know that yesterday we registered a motion of censure. Let's see if he sets an example. As far as his motion is concerned, I should like to tell him that he will be able to count on the support of the VOX Group because what he is asking for is reasonable: that the agreements reached be complied with, that the judicial decisions be complied with. It also calls for common sense in the allocation of European funds for the reconstruction plan, taking into account the economic sectors and territories most damaged by the health and socio-economic crisis resulting from the pandemic and, indeed, the Canary Islands is one of them. In the VOX Parliamentary Group we are not like other parliamentary groups, which vote against what any other promoter group presents regardless of whether it is useful or not for Spain. If what you propose is reasonable, as in this case, we will support it. They ask for resources in the motion to cover the fall in public revenue as a result of the fall in economic activity. The amendment which we have tabled to you - and which seems to have been tabled since it is not going to accept it - is an amendment of addiction in which we call on the Government of Spain to require the Government of the Canary Islands - consisting of a left-wing four-party, including its political formation - to eliminate any expenditure other than the provision of essential public services that the Autonomous Administration is to provide and to reduce its Governing Council to the minimum structure necessary to guarantee essential services in this crisis of COVID-19. Mr Quevedo, in this situation of almost absolute paralysis of tourism, the main sector of our economy, the Council of Government of the Canary Islands must be reduced to what is strictly necessary and the social engineering policies of the ideological agenda that your party has launched in the Canary Islands must be stopped. [[Applauds]] I will give you the same indication that President Sánchez received in July, during his European tour, looking for resources to rescue our economy: they have to find the solution in the Canary Islands. If they do not strive to balance expenditure with the new income reality, no aid or level of indebtedness will be sufficient to prevent the collapse of the economy of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. Finally, I also encourage you to accept our amendment to amend the surplus of the Autonomous Community. The surplus must be consolidated as a financial resource available to the public administration which has generated it, as a result of the budgetary discipline observed; this is the case with the Canary Islands. However, this criterion should not be exclusive to the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, but should be extended to all those administrations which have been disciplined and have obtained surpluses. If that were not the case, there would be an unfair inequality between the different territories and their public administrations. The last time I suggested that you abandon your exclusive nationalist vision in June, you rejected our proposal. You've announced today that you're going to reject her again. I find myself under the obligation to remind you that such short glances turn out to be counterproductive. Do you remember his campaign slogan in the general elections, with a little plane on the sign that he was putting: Pedro Quevedo, the 75% MP? Do you remember what happened? That in April he ran out of seats; he ran out of seats. If you don't agree this coalition against nature with your rivals in the Canary Coalition, I wouldn't be sitting here today. Mr Quevedo, in the last elections the Canary Islands has shown that the lies of nationalism are no longer believed. It is twenty-seven years that nationalism has ruled in the Canary Islands, alternating, according to interests, the partner of government, and have left us in the tail van of unemployment, poverty and school failure. These are not the recent data that you have just read, but are the pre-pandemic data. I'm done, Mr. President. After this legacy of misery and poverty, understand once and for all that unity is a better good than separation and that only a strong Spain will be able to guarantee the future of each of its territories, also that of the Canary Islands. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u228	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Pérez Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u229	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in this House an initiative on the Canary Islands which aims to ensure a sound funding framework for the islands in a critical time. Mr Quevedo, I am already telling you that because of the historical urgency reflected in the economic and social data of the Canary Islands today, which threatens to have very serious consequences for society and the economy of our land, my group will support this motion, although we want to improve it by providing some incorporations. First, we propose that the maintenance of resources in 2021 for all the common system communities and for the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla be channelled through a non-reimbursable fund similar to the COVID Fund, where the relevant rules regarding its distribution and delivery in time and form are laid down. We understand that with this contribution we will have greater concreteness and, above all, a real commitment without margin for possible interpretations. Secondly, we raised a point at paragraph 5 of the motion. Your Honor rightly claims that the General Budgets of the State for 2021 must necessarily include the economic resources collected both in the new statute of autonomy and in the Law of the economic and fiscal regime. In agreement, we propose to incorporate that these resources should also be taken care of in favour of the Canary Islands in the event that a further extension of the 2018 budgets, currently in force, takes place. Thirdly, while we once again defend the rigour and efficiency in the public management of the resources that are of all, we do not share - and I am sure you do not, Mr Quevedo - the arbitrary criterion imposed by Mr Sánchez to arrogate himself as the first person from the Presidency of the Government the exclusive competence - and who knows if it is unquestionable - to distribute the quota of non-reimbursable funds that Spain will receive from the European Union at your will. As we also agree on this point, I invite you to accept our proposal to set up an agency of a professional and independent technical nature that will take over the distribution, management and control of these European funds. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands, with a drop in tourists over the last year of 99.8%, with almost 260 000 unemployed and 83 500 affected by ERTE, is probably the Spanish region most adversely affected by the effects of COVID-19 and, as we have already asked the islands, we propose the adoption of a specific tourist plan for the Canary Islands. And also, due to the migratory pressure that the Canary Islands is suffering, we propose the creation of a special fund for the care of irregular migration that will allow worthy care to the more than 5000 migrants who, in the course of the year and in the context of a serious public health problem, have reached the coast of the archipelago. Finally, I would like to make a few comments. Mr Quevedo, this motion that you bring here today is proof of your distrust that President Sánchez - whom you helped arrive in the Moncloa by supporting censorship first and the investiture later - fulfills the Canary Islands; a distrust - I confess - that we fully share. And we do so because, beyond words, the reality is that the government of Pedro Sánchez, in the decisive moments, is turning its back on the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands. For many months, they have left us alone, not only in the economic and financial fields, but also in the social sphere. Its partners, the Socialist Party and the United Podemos, have never had the Canary Islands on their agenda of priorities. That is why you bring this motion here, Mr Quevedo, because the Canary Islands today is abandoned to their fate and because the Canary Islands now see the Government of our country farther than ever before. Second-rate Spanish? I don't know, but, of course, forgotten Spaniards that we will never forget these months of neglect, disdain and abandonment. I hope, Mr Quevedo, that this motion will prosper, but above all, I hope that the Government of Spain will comply with and take into account the remote and Atlantic island Spain, where a humble but also proud people live that they do not let themselves be overwhelmed and that they demand what they deserve without running over anyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u230	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Quevedo, if something shares our political formations it is the enormous concern for the situation that the Canary Islands is experiencing not only in this House, but also in the Government of the Canary Islands, where we have had the opportunity to amend and correct, because the intervention of the People's Party, which, as always, demonstrates an enormous amnesia, is a powerful call for attention. Mrs Pérez, the only thing the People's Party did for the Canary Islands was increase inequality and poverty. [[Applauds]] The balance left by the People's Party in the Canary Islands was 40% of the population at risk of poverty and exclusion. You, in the midst of the economic crisis, with unemployment rates well above the national average, were able to leave the Comprehensive Employment Plan at zero, suspend the Canary Islands Tourism Infrastructure Plan and reiterate the breaches of the Road Convention, without taking into account the economic, social and territorial cohesion consequences of this. It was the Supreme Court that came to amend this injustice. You, in your years of management, committed a real outrage against the interests of the Canary Islands, and this was understood by the citizenry and demonstrated it with your votes, causing a historic defeat in the elections held in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands, because of its status as an ultraperipheral region, because of the fragmentation of its territory and because of the serious and devastating consequences that the global COVID-19 pandemic is having, requires a thorough analysis of the new economic and social reality of our islands. As other groups that have spoken before me have mentioned, the dependence of the tourism industry on the archipelago, the sector most hit by this crisis, casts worrying data in terms of wealth and employment. The tourism sector in the archipelago accounts for 35% of gross domestic product and 40% of employment. Therefore, the Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands have already adopted measures to ensure the provision of public services in view of the foreseeable loss of income in 2020, measures, ultimately, to try to alleviate not only the economic consequences, but those that will guarantee social protection. You yourself, Mr Quevedo, have acknowledged in this rostrum that many of them have been positive for the island. These are measures such as the implementation of ERTE as an alternative to dismissal, which has received 82,432 people as of 28 September, of whom, as we knew yesterday, an extension was approved in the framework of the social dialogue until 31 January 2021. Good news, no doubt. The approval of the special cessation benefit, which has benefited more than 68 000 self-employed persons and has also been extended. The possibility of financing the fall in revenues due to the impact of the fall in tourism and by the special regime and taxes of the Economic and Fiscal Regime with the tranche of 5 billion from the Special Non-Reimbursable Fund of 16 billion approved in Royal Decree Law 22/2020, so that the Autonomous Communities have additional funding to that of the autonomous financing system. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain has acted with these and other measures being conscious and sensitive to the reality of our land. But the commitment of the Socialist Group and the Government does not end here. We are aware of the difficult challenges facing our autonomous community and that is why it is vitally important to approve the General Budgets of the State by 2021; budgets that will certainly correct the violations made by the People's Party with the road agreement and that we hope you will support; budgets that will contemplate what has been approved in the statute of autonomy and in the Economic and Fiscal Regime and that we also hope, of course, that you will support it. In short, good budgets for the Canary Islands that require that we focus on their approval to meet the demands of the citizenry and that they be met. These are measures that seek to enhance the development and competitiveness of the various socio-economic sectors of our archipelago, as outlined in our amendment, which reflects a real will to continue to advance and build a better future for the Canary Islands. We regret that you do not accept it; we ask you to take it into consideration, but if you do not, you will not have the slightest doubt that we will continue to dialogue and work in this House - and I am sure that also in the Canary Islands institutions - to fulfil our commitment to our land. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u232	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u233	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands is a territory with unique features to be highlighted; singularities that we must certainly address as a country in order to promote the equality of the Canary Islands with the rest of the autonomous communities and among all the Spanish, and never the opposite. More than 80 million tourists visit our country every year, 13 of whom arrive in the Canary Islands. We are talking about a community that has bet and made tourism its excellence, that has been able to take advantage of its wonderful natural and climatic conditions. It is fair to recognize the effort and know-how of private initiative in what is now Canarian tourism: a very high quality industry. Large hotel chains, small businesses and self-reliant ones that are insecure by discouragement have been able to drive a strong sector and with a trajectory of growth in volume and quality that has undoubtedly been truncated by the crisis of the COVID-19. This unprecedented crisis is having a huge impact on mobility, so we find a tourism sector on the verge of bankruptcy. This problem has been more acute in the Canary Islands, since during the first months of the start of tourist activity - July and August - tourism has concentrated more on the peninsula, since there continued to be some distrust on the part of the citizens when making movements in Community means of transport; distrust that was aggravated by the lack of management of this government, which did nothing to improve it. To all this, ladies and gentlemen, we must add that little or no support received from the ministry which has the competence in the field of tourism. I told the minister today: there are EUR 25 billion that is not reaching hoteliers and the tourism sector, as they themselves say. Nor can we forget the unacceptable statements - and I repeat myself again today for the second time, but I think I have to - of Minister Garzón, who says that in Spain we have a tourism sector that does not generate added value, which is completely uncertain. This government has taken hold of the ERTE and the ICO credits, and I refer again to this issue because this is also done by the Socialist Party every time it has to talk about tourism, when it was true that it was a safety net, and very good, to maintain economic activity while addressing the reforms that are essential for Spain and that the People's Party and Socialist Party have postponed for decades. We were sold that they would protect businesses and employment, also the tourism sector, when the reality is that they have waited until the day before to extend the ERTE. Not to mention the added despair of seeing how the Executive tried to leave the tourism sector and the hospitality sector out of the ERTE. We have been asking for this for months, for the tranquility and certainty of the Spanish families who, in their distress, have had to wait until the day before to know whether or not they are receiving this benefit and whether or not they were losing their job; benefits that are not yet being paid on many occasions and it is the same citizens who have to look for solutions to be able to feed their families. But it can be seen that this is secondary to the Spanish Government, because today we have been able to see in the inquiry that they do not care. In Citizens we welcome the agreement reached with the ERTE, but we regret the enormous suffering that 850 000 households would have been able to avoid if there had been more political will. But do not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen, they are consciously doing so, thinking of extending it and forcing negotiations to the last minute so that businesses, SMEs and self-employed people are forced to accept the proposal they put on the table. From Citizens we have been asking the Government for months to move forward and to develop a plan of reforms for our economy, to save it, not to fund it, to prevent more businesses from being lost and more jobs from being destroyed. We have also been offering the government a central route, a common sense route to make budgets for all of Spain where, of course, the Canary Islands will be. In Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing everything we can, working 24 hours a day and stealing sleep hours to maximize the influence of our ten Members, and we will continue to do so. Of course, we cannot talk about these budgets without talking about the aid that has to come from the European Union and from those plans that have to be drawn up from the government and that we do not yet have any information; plans for tourism too, which have to come out of consensus. Spain needs those serious budgets and Citizens are holding hands. Of course, we are not going to oppose this motion because we are certainly at a time when all the autonomous communities need European aid and funds and, of course, serious and focused budgets, but we will abstain because we understand that it is all Spain, that it is all the communities that need this tourist plan and those that need investment, those that need a recovery plan and, of course, also the Canary Islands. Decades of bipartisan patches weigh like a slab. Now that you have to run the PSOE continues to drag your feet with the reforms. It is very sad, ladies and gentlemen, because Spain is not doomed to go back for continuing with the stubble and kicking forward; no, we need to continue growing and we need to save lives and jobs. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u234	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u235	No, I asked for a separate vote point by point.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u236	Okay. - the people's parliamentary group at the conference, so that the government can benefit from the alarms recently made known in connection with the economy and the employment of the Spaniards. [[File number 173/000024]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u237	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, so that the Government values the alarming forecasts recently made regarding the economy and employment of the Spaniards. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u238	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this week is already seven months from the forecast made by the Vice-President of the Government, in which he anticipated that the Spanish economy would suffer only a transitional impact as a result of the health crisis. Seven months of unforeseeableness, seven months of lack of leadership, seven months of lack of response that have had some far-reaching consequences known to all of you: 750 000 fewer jobs, the destruction of 100 000 businesses, 800 000 workers who today depend on these ERTEs approved in the discount time, 6 million Spaniards holding a grant or the news we heard yesterday from the Bank of Spain that six out of ten companies have lost in the first part of the year. Last week, Standard and Poor's improved its economic forecasts by 4 tenths for the euro area as a whole; for the euro area as a whole, less for Spain, which worsened by 5 tenths. It is clear once again, ladies and gentlemen, that neither the health consequences are affecting all countries equally nor the economic consequences are reaching the dramatic level of Spain in our environment. The truth is that today the uncertainty is wide for Spain, for the Spanish economy; it is wide in tourism, in hospitality, in trade, in the car sector, because there is no direction, because there is no plan, because of this crisis we do not know a single measure, nor a single proposal for reform of the Executive. But if it is harmful to have a government unable to cross hands, much more dangerous is to have a government that puts all its energies, one hundred percent, in causing an unprecedented institutional crisis to continue its path - that of destroying the constitutional framework - but also to distract the Spaniards from their own ruin. Because you will not share it, but without institutional stability there will be no confidence and, without confidence, there will be no investment and, without investment, this country will not recover the growth path in many years. Ladies and gentlemen, with 20% of Spaniards unemployed, with the highest youth unemployment in Europe - 41.7% -, with a state which today weighs 51% of gross domestic product -16 points more than ten years ago - we no longer have time, there is no longer any hope that this government will adopt a minimum responsible opposition and present a single reform to this House. The only hope that the Spaniards can have for regaining their jobs and for regaining economic stability for their families is that it represents a party that has already twice brought this country out of ruin, the party that has presented the only plan to rebuild and boost our economy, the party that has presented this plan today in the form of a motion and that has already made known our president, Pablo Casado. A plan that has, within its axes, to improve the competitiveness of our companies by promoting reindustrialization and reducing energy; supporting internationalization; betting on sustainability, the circular economy and the primary sector; with a strategy decided by digitization and guaranteeing legal certainty; depoliticizing regulatory bodies; simplifying regulatory regulations and committing ourselves to repealing two rules for each rule adopted by this Congress. It is a plan to reduce bureaucracy so that it is easier to undertake in this country by making it easier for a company to be set up in just five days, transforming the system of pre-licensing for responsible declaration, harmonizing administrative regulations to achieve a true market unity and developing a law of business growth that removes fiscal, labour or administrative obstacles, modernizing our Administration through rationalization and digitization and implementing a career in office with incentives, as well as reducing the structure of the most expensive government in history. If we have seen anything in this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, it is the number of jobs that has been saved thanks to the labour reform that the People's Party approved in its day, which also served as a basis for generating three million jobs before Pedro Sánchez occupied the Moncloa. Therefore, it is time to increase flexibility, not to end it. We ask, we propose to expand ERTE not in the last minute of discount and for limited time, but until well in the spring and do so with connection to training itineraries, especially in sectors such as tourism and hospitality. We propose to extend the flat rate for self-employed people: with zero income, zero quota; enhance the Second Opportunity Law so that they do not break more companies in Spain and implement effective regulation of telework, as well as promote reconciliation with zero to three years for families. Of course, continue with the reforms, those that were abandoned when the PSOE occupied power, especially those that have to do with the training, and for this we propose to promote the dual FP in secondary school and the participation of the company in the university; orient the training curricula and academic degrees to the labor demand to prevent the university from remaining a factory of unemployed and implement a system of national public assessments for education. And, of course, change the tax policy, increasing the collection bases, but lowering the tax pressure on families and businesses, and we therefore propose lowering corporate tax below 20%, eliminating estates and assets, among others, creating a new form of subsidized hiring for the unemployed as a result of the COVID, articulating tax exemptions for companies affected by the pandemic, increasing the period of lack of ICO credits and formulating a plan for the acquisition of offshore companies and large employers with an administrative highway and also through tax incentives. This is the way, gentlemen of the PSOE, because the prosperity of millions of Spaniards is slipping into our hands while you are still distracted in your policy of historical revisionism, in your attacks on the constitutional framework or in the youngest and most recent fashion postureo in the most quoted magazines, so, since the government of Pedro Sánchez is by action and omission unable to generate certainty in our economy, let me say from here to all Spaniards that not everything is lost, that there are alternatives, that there is the alternative of a party that has already brought this country twice out of ruin, a government party with proposals that it exercises and poses without rigour, a party that will prevent the crisis from costing future generations of Spaniards as a result of having had an incapable and irresponsible government that left the ship of the economy behind it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u239	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Muñoz Vidal is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u240	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum with good news. Finally, we have consensus, yes, consensus, because, when it comes to economic and labour forecasts for Spain, all the bodies, without exception, all tell us that we are going from bad to worse. A few weeks ago Funcas worsened its economic forecasts due to the lack of push in the recovery. The Bank of Spain is already assuming its worst forecasts and its most negative scenario for the gross domestic product of 2020 in Spain, a fall of 12%, and a rate of unemployment that could reach 22 % in the coming year. Coface, for its part, says that between this year and 2021 22% of companies will have to close for lack of liquidity. In the last barometer of the autonomous ATA states that it is very possible that 300,000 businesses will close in the remainder of the year. And they're going to allow me to dare to advance that the forecasts that the government itself has to make must be so bad that that's why it still doesn't make them public. Therefore, yes, there is consensus, as there is also consensus in which this Government denied or minimized the gravity of the crisis with hasty and propagandistic statements of the style 'the crisis will have an unsignificant and transitory impact', said Calviño, or 'the worst has happened', as announced montero, Mary Jesus, without blushing, or'stronger exits', that slogan of the Redondo factory that we hear repeatedly in the programs of Aló president. Ladies and gentlemen, you must know that the data is and that what is account cannot be accounted for. In this there is no debate possible because the crisis that is coming to us is not interpretable, so stop looking for a letter; neither V nor W nor L nor U nor Aladdin's lamp. I don't like to say we already said it, because it sounds pretentious, but we already said it. Unfortunately, we have been warning that this pandemic was coming from the very beginning of March, and, unlike the group that tabled this motion, from the citizens from the first minute we anticipated the situation and made available to the government our usefulness and our responsibility - of a government that we do not like - and we did not do it out of pure pleasure, no, we did it out of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, responsibility born of long-term concern and vision. But months later we are here: our European partners have already begun their recovery, while in Spain the worst forecasts are confirmed, because, while all this is happening, here the government continues to play the role of waste, in what is a clear discharge of functions, at best, and, at worst, it is directly dedicated to attacking the institutions and following its agenda of dismantling the state. You insist on raising that false disjunctive between health and economy, and it's false because it's not. Countries such as Japan or New Zealand put in place tough mechanisms to control the health crisis situation without even seriously affecting their economy. But it is also that this disjunctive is a fallacious dichotomy. If we have been the worst in the global management of the health crisis, we should be the best in the economic outlook, but that is not the case. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has to send a reconstruction reform plan to Brussels before 15 October - as the maximum date on 15 October - and the key to making that plan effective is the exchange of ideas and the agreement. Without agreements our economy will not be able to go back, without consensus we will not be able to regain the lost ground during the confinement, without consensus, ladies and gentlemen, we will never be able to address the important reforms that Spain needs, and I am sorry to say this but time is running out. The general budgets of the state and the European funds will only be a patch if we do not revolutionize our economy. If we do not undertake the necessary reforms, the EUR 140 billion will not only not come in full but will serve nothing. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the PSOE, if this happens, you will have applauded, applauded and welcomed the failure to be able even to manage European solidarity. It is in your hand not to squander aid, it is in your hand to do exceptional things, as citizens do every day since the pandemic was unleashed. And here is our hand, the hand stretched out by Citizens, critical but responsible, to make the reforms that have been waiting for decades, because we are responsible, because we make useful politics and because we are paid for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u241	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the motion you are bringing here today is a mere statement of intent, and for that I think it is already late, because here we are taking action, as we are playing furniture. The future of Spain with this government is uncertain, and you have not done your duty, you have merely hung medals, boasting of how well you have ruled in your time, and that is now enough. Ladies and gentlemen, your opposition during this time has been to support up to three times the government's social-communist prescriptions by voting in favour of the executive's measures and, to make it less clear, to abstain in a fourth on the state of alarm extensions. You can't criticize the government for paralysing the country when you contributed to that paralysis, that's hypocrisy. They do not dare to say no to the Government, they are afraid of being labeled as true opposition, and with this they have become accomplices to their disastrous management. Do not worry, that to lead the opposition we are already here fifty-two of VOX : first, to make constructive politics from a realistic discourse proposing measures to transform the reality, that against which the citizens, the autonomous and all those who are taking Spain forward out of these walls, and, secondly, to stop the disaster to which this disgovernment leads us. [[applause]] Our measures, which we have proposed in a rather important amendment, go so far as to ensure that, once and for all, we serve the citizens, not the other way around. We come from the real world, with which we remain in contact, because we have been the citizen until two days ago, the citizen who suffers and sees his projects truncated because the government and the administration make life impossible for him. And it is that the public sector must be at the service of the citizens as facilitator of their life, but in Spain it is quite the opposite: an obstacle for the entrepreneur to start his business. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain we have a submerged economy that accounts for 20% of GDP. Do the Spaniards have a gene that differentiates us from the rest of our European neighbours by pushing us into the informal market or does entering the legal circuit involve entrepreneurs crossing a border that, far from providing them with facilities, prevents them from moving forward? This has to be remedied now! Do you know the first thing a young farmer has to do when he wants to start his activity? [[Applauds]] I'll explain. Although it meets training and training requirements, the first thing it has to do is pay taxes, before it starts producing, before it generates a single euro. Do you think that's how we're going to end the submerged economy? On the other hand, if we talk about doctors, nurses, scientists, professors and other professionals, in which we invest millions of euros to form them in our universities - do you know where? of our taxes - everything is for them to end up going to other countries, because they value them there, pay them decent wages and provide them with job stability. Here we deny them all that. However, how easy it is for those plugged in by the political parties that have governed us. And you refuse to undertake the structural reforms necessary for Spain to work, because with 'all and all' you are worth it. To offer the Spaniards a real opportunity, if that's already tomorrow. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you have been almost as guilty as the PSOE of the economic ruin of Spain; and you do not tear your clothes because you now defend the lowering of taxes, when you in the government only knew how to raise them. The economic situation is catastrophic. GDP, unemployment and debt: in all the worst in Europe, not to mention the forecasts made by AIReF or Banco de España. We have before us an economic and fiscal challenge that requires a coordinated recovery strategy, not a pantomime called the Reconstruction Commission, which has been written since Moncloa and has the support of its group. What did you, gentlemen of the PP, do when the PSOE, behind the back of Congress, in the full celebration of that Commission, agreed to repeal its labour reform? Na-da, remain accomplices to that. [[Applauds]] We need planning now, a clear road map, because the scenario we see with this government is uncertain. But the task of drawing up budgets is not initiated, and you meet with Mr Sánchez without a budget document to discuss. For what? We have 2018 budgets for Mr Montero - sorry, Mr Montoro, who I am already confused with - and, as far as European funds are concerned, the Social-Communist Government will seek to divert them to ideological projects that strengthen its ruinous political agenda. Spain, with its governments, is the country that least executes the funds, only 34% of what we receive in Europe. Their motion needs concrete action and we offer it with an amendment that includes up to eighteen measures, including flexicurity in our labour market, sound public accounts, preparing budgets on a zero basis that meet the needs of the Spanish people, and dismissing the short and stick; and I make a special mention of measures such as the implementation of the family allowance check, depoliticizing education and access to education in Spanish - language shared with four hundred million people -, attracting international talent, eliminating disparate political spending, industrial development, technological neutrality and our primary sector, so important in our country, that it will be the saving table of depopulated rural Spain. Let us hope that they will accept our amendment on this occasion. Be determined and bet on the Spaniards, not on the seat. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u243	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President. An initiative such as the one put forward by the People's Group to reorient the Government's s sluggish policy is peremptory. After more than two years since Pedro Sánchez arrived in Moncloa and with the partners of the United Nations We can convert the Council of Ministers into a campal battle on account of economic issues, the coronavirus is highlighting the lack of direction that is leading us Spaniards to a crisis that is very long lasting and of unpredictable proportions, so that today it is essential to reduce the taxes that suffocate and bind families, SMEs and self-employed people. Today, it is urgent to implement the reform that allowed us to overcome the colossal work wreckage of the former socialist government. Today, the treatment goes hand in hand with the economic emergency and European court measures envisaged in this motion, to which, Mr President, I shall vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u245	Thank you very much. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that, as one of the people who preceded me in the use of the word said, the objective data, already without entering into own appraisals, are very negative, in general terms, and, of course, the problem of the objective data is that the people are behind them and, therefore, we have to find a solution. The normal thing at this point in the year is that we were talking about budgets, but with some data, and that's the striking thing. What is striking is that so far all that is being said about budgets, what is being spoken about outside the House once again - with so much government there is, a government as vast as this - shows the little interest that plenary sessions have for them. Today we saw the Minister of Justice who was affronting the People's Party that not all its Members were here, which is not possible because of the situation, but I see that there are many in the government who do not have much to do and yet are unable to sit here. Having said that, I think we should already have budgets, see budget numbers now, not things next to budgets, all that is being negotiated in parallel, in what I am not going to enter now; we should already see the numbers, because these are going to be the ones that will contribute to making the possible reconstruction, and it is striking that that does not happen. I do not know if the problem is that between the two partners of government first they have to negotiate side by side within the government itself, then come here and try to agree with those groups to which they are going to give things that have nothing to do with the budgets and from there to reach all the Spaniards. The problem is that you can't wait, people are having a bad time and things can't open up, and now we're talking about how many things can be shut down again. So stop whirling and bring in some budgets, so that we can talk about numbers and concrete things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u247	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u248	Thank you, Mr. President. The People's Party is bringing a motion for an inquiry calling on the Government to consider a number of measures in the face of the alarming forecasts of the economy. It will not be my group that defends the Government, but it really surprises a statement of reasons that basically is reduced to blaming the government for the bad economic forecasts and, in particular, its economic vice-president with expressions like a bochronose attitude, in short, with reproaches that, of course, do little or nothing to help that stability that is needed if, as you say, it is to activate the economy in an economic environment of great uncertainty, an environment of uncertainty that you also seem to be disheartening or obviating. It cannot be blamed, of course, that nothing has been done, because short-term measures have indeed been taken to alleviate the most extreme consequences of the crisis and its social and economic consequences in order to avoid a high drop in demand, a great destruction of employment and a high level of business insolvency. But it is also true that it is now time to talk about the medium term and plan actions, because the challenges that existed before the pandemic have not disappeared, they are still there, and now in an environment where the impact on public finances is deeper. Having said that, we do not understand that the best way of planning to reactivate the economy is through a motion with generalist measures, of course re-centralizing and with a certain nostalgia for recipes derived from the 2008 crisis, and I explain myself. They speak of numerous measures, but not of the autonomous communities, which are competent in some areas. For example, measures relating to training are the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities; or those of industry, in which the Autonomous Communities also have competence. Let us return to the recurring theme of recentralization. They also propose measures that talk about competitiveness within the industrial framework, but some are very generalistic, such as aid for internationalisation or promoting reindustrialization. Of course, there are autonomous communities, such as Euskadi, that go ahead in this. In addition, I remind you that, following the 2008 crisis, companies, without an industrial policy on the part of that government, went ahead precisely because they bet on that internationalization that you are demanding today. We cannot even agree with the bureaucratic measures, because all they think about is returning to that market unit. Like I said, I'm tired of going back to re-centralization. Market unity is not a matter of bureaucracy. On the other hand, with this motion you say that you want to reactivate the economy. But how? Basically, with the same recipes you gave after the 2008 crisis to reactivate the economy. They seem to be looking only at one part of the economy, at businesses, and forgetting the other part that is needed for the economy and businesses to work, the working people. They once again call for the maintenance of the 2012 labour reform, which only led to an increase in inequalities; a labour reform which only made it possible to make redundancies more flexible and to slow down work and family reconciliation measures; and which, of course, has proved incapable of stimulating the creation of new jobs, and even less of doing so with new quality jobs. We are therefore again presented with old recipes, rances, generalists and re-centralizers in the face of a situation that has nothing to do with that 2008 crisis. In short, we are presented with a motion for a new normality with old recipes, and I can only tell you that for this trip, of course, do not count on the Basque Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u249	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u250	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the People's Party, fortunately or unfortunately, we already know the economic prescriptions of the PP, because we have suffered them every time they ruled: privatization, deterioration of public services, loss of rights, precariousness, increase in inequalities, social exclusion, centralisation, and their proposals today are no different. In the middle of common places, which sound good but don't mean anything, the pacita look like the usual neoliberal and centralizing recipes, lurking behind formulas such as labour flexibility, maintenance of labour reform, reduction of tax pressure, market unity, co-harmonization of national standards or public assessments. Some of these policies led to an unprecedented industrial crisis in Galicia. For example, the Aznar government privatizes Inespal in 1977, today in the hands of the American multinational Alcoa, which after doing business pretends to close, leaving the workers and a whole region thrown away. We can't consent to that. That is why it is necessary to go the opposite way, the nationalization of the aluminium plant of San Cibrao, in order to guarantee the continuity of the activity and the jobs. We once again call upon the Government to take a decision to initiate Alcoa's public intervention. But the Galician government of the PP, in the hands of Feijóo, can neither remain as a spectator nor avoid its responsibilities, because both governments have a huge responsibility and have the entire region of A Mariña, all Galicia waiting for them to know how to comply with it. There is no time and less for doubts, so 'Alcoa, nationalization already'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u252	Thank you very much, President. Yesterday was a highlight, there were three relevant facts. One, VOX gave birth to a mouse; finally, he presented his motion of censure model Lands as you can. Two, a court gave acquittal to some gentlemen who sank a bank that cost us all more than EUR 22 billion, while one day before another court condemned a president for a banner. Finally, we found that the government can negotiate bilaterally with an autonomous government if that government is in Madrid and is of the PP, and it also imposes on all others the measures it should have taken for a long time. Today the PP presents a motion with measures to activate the economy, while its president, Pablo Casado, asked the president of the government once again for the king, great problem. They want to activate the economy with recipes older than cough. In other words, to eliminate the inheritance and wealth tax, which only benefits big fortunes, to increase labour flexibility in order to be able to lay off more and cheaper, to reduce bureaucracy. At good times, green sleeves. Don't you remember that the antisocial and right-wing government of the PP ruled until just over two years ago for almost seven years? I'm going on: energy downsizing. If by their laws we pay the most expensive energy in Europe! Don't you remember the sun tax? And depoliticize organisms. Today, when Okupas judges have just appointed new judges for two years! Anyway, the PP. You can't ask the elm for pears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u253	Thank you. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u254	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Baldoví has advanced to me in a reflection that he wanted to do to them and that is that in the Spanish State the bilateral negotiation exists, exists when it is done by a president of the autonomous community of the People's Party with the government of the State and nothing happens; nothing happens. I am only giving you a reflection, what would have happened if this same negotiation, rather than with the president of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, had been with the Generalitat of Catalonia and what was agreed with the Generalitat of Catalonia had been implemented throughout the State? Would your lordships be so quiet? Well, I'm telling you, no. Let's get to the point. The economic situation and the economic and social crisis are important, certainly with very few precedents and with a very different dimension to the previous ones. And that's so, and that's so that we don't throw it at each other's heads, but rather try to deal with this situation. In fact, the proposal you are bringing here would, in my view, be your conclusions of the Committee on Economic and Social Reconstruction if it were only up to the People's Party. That Commission served little, we have already made progress, we will see how the conclusions of that Commission are reflected in the future draft general state budgets. In any case, let's go to your proposals. We are going to abstain, there are some proposals that we can share, there are others that we cannot share in any way, and there are others that seem inconsistent to us. I ask you only one thing: did all these measures that you are proposing now propose them in the previous crisis that you had to manage? No, no, Why? Because some people know that they are not viable to implement in the midst of the crisis. In any case, we are going to abstain from this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u255	Thank you very much. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u256	With your permission, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The arbitrary, unjust, vengeful disqualification of the very honorable President Torra has already been denounced here; its futility must be highlighted at this time. They have not defeated Quim Torra, whom I know well, and in whose friendship I am honored, they have made him great, they have magnified him in the eyes of their compatriots. To him and to his cause, that of the liberty of Catalonia. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] As for your motion, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, this is like the day of the marmot, they bring us back to debate their extensive list of measures to re-activate Spain. We were discussing a very similar motion a couple of weeks ago, dated 8 September, and we were already telling them that it was just a short and sticky debate we had two years ago. You have to recognize your insistence to repeat day and day also your magic recipes. If you insist, so do we. From here I repeat that not to indiscriminately lower taxes instead of betting once and for all for a progressive tax system so that it pays more who has more. Not to the labor reform that has turned the workers into poor. Tax breaks and labor reforms have turned the middle class into a place in memory. That's the fruit of your policies. Not to their sacrosanct market unit and their unitary Spain, however much they think that denying disparities end up disappearing. The unit doesn't kill viruses and the unit doesn't save businesses. And, of course, not to its energy model of expensive prices backed up by the electric oligopoly of its rotating doors. Look, we do not vote for your list of measures, because some of us would discuss them on the premise that this crisis will lead to a more digital, sustainable and industrial economy. We vote not for your inaction, your bannerism and your inability to assume healthy and democraticly, proactively and purposely, that democracy has put you in opposition. Assume it and let's talk about how to bring up the situation of families, self-employed and SMEs, because, as you have already been told this noon, that's what they pay us for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u257	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u258	Thank you, President. Mr Castellón, tell me why you think you're wearing a mask and why you think you're wearing everyone's mask in this House. Have you not heard that we are facing a health crisis? I am saying this because, in view of the negligent and sloppy management of the President of the Madrid Community, you may not have heard. The text of this motion shows that it is necessary to remind them that we are facing a health, economic and social crisis which is due to an external factor, which has occurred and which we do not have sufficient knowledge, which creates uncertainty. It is not that my parliamentary group or the Government speak of uncertainty, but that uncertainty is what institutions and entities such as the Banco de España, the AIReF or Funcas mention when they have to talk precisely about the situation we are in. So, of course, there is uncertainty. The social distancing measures and restrictions have had a positive effect in containing the virus, but the Government's action has not remained there. In addition, the Government's actions have been intended and have been successful in cushioning the impact on our country's productive fabric and containing the effects on household income. You say the government improvises. We answer them that there are twenty-eight royal decree-laws during the pandemic giving answer. You say that we are late, but you say it with quite a bit - you will forgive me - because, after all, you presented a document of economic proposals in May. We say: ICO guarantees, ERTE, tax deferrals and minimum living income. And you say, nothing, and if anything, you vote against it. So, let's get back to the initial question. What is the economic situation in the rest of the countries? Because this pandemic, while global, affects. Madrid is Spain, it turns out that Spain is the planet, and it turns out that it is affecting all countries and their economies. But let's see what the problem is that it affects and how it affects here. What, then, is the problem of the economy in our country? It has to do with the fact that our productive model is little specialized in specific sectors, in few sectors, and also with little added value. And with little added value what consequences does it have? Among other things, that we lose most of our potential in people, for example, my generation, that we are not taking advantage of and that they have had to go to work outside. Moreover, we end up with a model that turns us into a park of attractions for Europeans and that gives the chance that it is not a model that comes out of nowhere, but that it is the economic model that has been built over the last twenty-five years, it is a model that responds to the interests of big capital and leaves aside the general interest that the Constitution proclaims, although this morning you have already been told that you are closer to the crime than to the Constitution. Let's talk about rotating doors; rotating doors that test for who has been ruling. Rafael Catalá, former Minister of Justice, Codere; Fatima Báñez, former Minister of Employment then and now Work, at the CEOE and in Iberdrola; Isabel García Tejerina, former Minister of Agriculture, in Iberdrola. Wow, wow, amigo capitalism was what it was called. Maybe here we'll find some answers. [[Give it up. Rumors]] Do you mind? If we're just telling them what they've done all these years. Now you are giving lessons and I don't know what you can give this government, because when you governed employment policies you reached the highest unemployment rate, 26.94%, the young people, my generation, emigrated abroad in the face of the lack of opportunities. And you still say in the motion that training needs to be improved; if the better-formed generations did not go away because there were no opportunities, although, yes, Fatima Báñez liked to say that it was external mobility. Let's talk about revolving door mobility. [[Applauds]] Job insecurity. The number of households without income earners reached 775,000. The Arope rate, which indicates the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion, reached 29.2%, which is equivalent to 13.7 million people. Dismantling the public sector, the welfare state, cuts in dependency, cuts in health care, cuts in education. If you want to talk about taxation, it has a lot to do with what your motion says. It turns out that there was an increase in VAT, when they had been asking for the reduction of VAT to the shopping basket from all over the world for years - it is remembered the collection of signatures of Esperanza Aguirre - and the reduction of the IRPF that is produced is to the upper classes. In fiscal policy they have led to an increasingly regressive tax system. Tax amnesty, wanting to abolish the property tax, the Montoro Law, the Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability that is drowning the municipalities by not allowing them access to the remnants. Yes, yes, they have given us lessons; lessons from all that is not to be done. We take note, and that is why it is precisely what we are putting into the debate on the General Budgets of the State, because there we can have an inclusive and sustainable productive model; budgets that move towards a fairer taxation guaranteeing the principle of equality and progressiveness set out in the Constitution in its article 31. By giving them a moment too for beauty - and I conclude, President - we are going to introduce some beauty in this debate as well. Today, September 30th, just like September 17th, the culture and events sector is on red alert, and it says so precisely because they want to prove that culture and events are safe. And I'm going to recommend a huge play called Lehman Trilogy, which was brought here to Spain directed and staged by Sergio Peris-Mencheta and which talks about protagonists who only care about personal enrichment and opportunistic benefit. I really recommend that you, if you can, see Lehman Trilogy. Go to the theater, culture is safe, unlike the revolving doors...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u259	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u260	... that revolve over themselves, culture makes us move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u261	Thank you. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have brought to this House today a motion to take measures of economic recovery and employment, a motion in which you do not once mention the word health crisis or pandemic of COVID-19. Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the serious health crisis in the whole world and also in our country? As a result of what we are seeing here in Madrid, in the Community of Madrid, I would say no. Ladies and gentlemen, Madrid hurts me. The Members of this House cannot remain alienated from the reality that Madrid's men and women are experiencing. Here, in the Community of Madrid, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of doctors, nurses, trackers, measures for attention in education, to strengthen social services or measures to contain the virus. That is what is needed in the Community of Madrid. What is left is the pride of the People's Party, Ayuso and the Government of the Madrid Community. [[Applauds]] They also speak, ladies and gentlemen, in their motion that the Government shut down our country with night and light. No, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of Spain has taken measures to reduce mobility and economic activity to protect people's health and lives and to protect the economy itself, because there will be no recovery if we do not tackle the health crisis. By the way, we did so with the support of this House and the Constitution itself, which they so often talk about and so rarely respect. Stop manoeuvring the Constitution, stop hugging Spain so much that they drown it, and stop saying so many times that they love Spain, because all they have done is steal it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That is their history, the history of the right-wings of this country, two decades of systemic corruption in their party and institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to take action. This government will continue to take action against this harsh health, economic and social crisis, because, when you talk about chronifying subsidies, you actually know that it is the largest network of protection for workers and businesses in this country, the largest in the history of our democracy. Or are they going to tell millions of workers, self-employed people and businesses that measures such as ERTE, termination benefit for self-employed people or ICOs are measures that have not had any relevance in our economy? Are you really going to tell this to the workers of this country? When you talk about increasing work flexibility, do you know what we tell you? That no, that is enough, that in this country what is needed is to protect the rights of the working class, ladies and gentlemen. And when you talk about reducing public jobs, we also say no, because in this country what is needed are more doctors, more nurses, more judges, more teachers, more people to attend to social services, more people for public services in this country or inspectors to fight tax fraud, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is also needed in this country are fiscal justice measures and not occurrences, such as those presented by the People's Party on lowering VAT in regions such as the Canary Islands, which do not have VAT, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Incidents don't help in this country at all with what's going on. [[Applauds]] Finally, let me give you some advice. If you really want to help Spain, help the men and women of this country, you have it easy: support the real decree-laws that the government is bringing to this House. Many have not had their support, including voting against them; support the social dialogue and the third agreement that the Government of the nation has reached with economic and social actors, entrepreneurs and trade unions; support the General State Budgets for 2021, or support this measure that the Minister of Finance announced today to make the municipalities part of the political solution to the economic crisis in that country. That is the path you can take today in this House, in the Congress of Deputies. I end with one last consideration, ladies and gentlemen, just one more thing. Speak well of Spain in Europe, it is worth it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u263	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Castellón Rubio, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u264	Mr President, Citizens have presented two. As for the first, we will incorporate it in its entirety. The second, although we share it to a large extent, is very specific and we understand that our text is much more general, so we prefer it not to be incorporated. As for VOX, Mrs Cañizares, you said that in our motion we chose to retain the seat. When I was three years old, in your group there's a congressman who was already here... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u265	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u266	No, logically, with those arguments we do not accept the VOX amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-30-CD200930.u267	You know that you must refer exclusively to accepting or rejecting the amendments, not to going into debate. The meeting was suspended until tomorrow. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
