ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u1	The meeting was resumed. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We begin with the item on the discussion of the entire international agreement on taxation and protection of financial interests between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in relation to Gibraltar, made ad referendum in Madrid and London on 4 March 2019. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government to present this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today at the plenary session of this House in the context of the process of ratification of the international agreement on taxation and protection of financial interests between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom in relation to Gibraltar, done ad referendum in Madrid and London on 4 March 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin my speech by putting this agreement into context. As you know, in the context of the negotiation of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the main objective of Spain has been the protection of citizens and residents in the territory covered by the municipalities of the Commonwealth of Municipalities of the Campo de Gibraltar, preserving their rights, so that the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union is as disruptive as possible. It is a question of ensuring, therefore and in particular during the transitional period, the correct application of European Union law. We also want to move towards a more balanced relationship between the parties and less harmful to the Campo de Gibraltar and its citizens. One of the objectives of the negotiation was therefore to ensure that Gibraltar was not consolidated as a tax haven or as an epicentre of money laundering to the detriment of the territory of the Gibraltar Field and the interests of the European Union as a whole. Following a complex negotiation, Spain and the United Kingdom signed on 29 November 2018 four bilateral memoranda of understanding on citizens' rights, tobacco and other products, environmental cooperation and police and customs cooperation, as well as the international agreement that concerns us today. The conclusion of these texts would not have been possible without the involvement and coordination of the General Administration of the State as a whole. In the specific case of the negotiation of the agreement that we are considering today, I should like to thank the Ministry of Finance for its decisive participation in an exercise of coordination and concertation on a subject of state with capitals such as Gibraltar. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to focus on a point that I will be returning to throughout my speech, as it seems to be the core of the proposal to refuse ratification that we are considering today. Let me stress that we are talking about a bilateral international agreement between the United Kingdom and Spain on Gibraltar, that is, we are not talking about an international agreement signed with the local authorities in Gibraltar, but about an agreement signed between Spain and the United Kingdom on Gibraltar, which improves and expands the provisions of the withdrawal agreement, in relation to the particular situation and sensitivity of the Gibraltar Field. Allow me to make a brief reference to the results of the complex negotiation that we started in Brussels so that these texts would fit into the withdrawal agreement. This negotiation culminated in a protocol on Gibraltar, included in that agreement. It is a legal instrument which also enshrines Spain's special relevance in this process of withdrawing the United Kingdom from the European Union. This protocol, which is the primary law of the European Union, incorporates the specificity of the Gibraltar Field area and contains references to the four above-mentioned memorandums and to the need to establish, with respect to Gibraltar, the forms of coordination and cooperation necessary to achieve full transparency in tax matters, as well as a system of administrative cooperation to combat fraud, smuggling, money laundering and settle tax residency disputes. As you know, the withdrawal agreement also has a protocol on Ireland and a protocol on Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude this introduction, I would like to share with this House that one of the points raised between the European Union and the United Kingdom on 27 May, on the occasion of the first meeting of the specialised committee on Gibraltar, provided for in this withdrawal agreement, was precisely the state of ratification of this agreement. Spain reports that we hope that the necessary parliamentary procedures will be completed by October. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, already entering into the substance of the agreement and in the analysis of the proposal for a refusal of authorisation submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group, I would like to stress first of all that it recognises throughout its text the advantages that this agreement gives Spain. As an example, the refusal proposal comes to recognize - and I read textually -: '... will stop tax avoidance by individuals and companies living and operating in Spain, but they are tax residents in Gibraltar'. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] - I close quotes. The refusal proposal also points out that, in the case of residences of natural persons, the rules favour Spain. This explicit recognition of the goodness of the agreement therefore shows in advance, if I may, that we are facing a good agreement. As regards the objectives of this agreement, they correspond exclusively to the content of its name, i.e. taxation and the protection of Spanish financial interests. In particular, this agreement seeks to eliminate tax fraud and the harmful effects arising from the characteristics of Gibraltar's tax system; to establish clear rules to more easily resolve conflicts of tax residence of natural persons, and to avoid the use of companies subject to Gibraltar's tax system by tax residents in Spain or for economic activities in Spain. These objectives are very beneficial to our country and the agreement creates the necessary instruments to achieve them. Until now, there was no legal instrument of this entity in defence of the interests of the Spanish fiscal system. Secondly, and in the face of what seems to be the main claim in the proposal for refusal by the VOX Parliamentary Group, we find ourselves in an international agreement, I repeat, between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom, which are the parties to the agreement in relation to the territory of Gibraltar. In this regard, the recitals include a clause that preserves Spain's position in relation to Gibraltar's litigation. The text of the agreement states - and I read by quoting textually - 'Considering that, for the purposes of this agreement, the United Kingdom acts as the State responsible for Gibraltar's external relations. In view of the fact that neither this Agreement nor any action or measure taken in implementation of or as a result of this Agreement implies a modification of the respective legal positions of the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom with regard to sovereignty and jurisdiction over Gibraltar.' I'm closing the date. It is therefore not true that the signing of the agreement implies recognition of Gibraltar, much less, as stated in the writing of the VOX Parliamentary Group, which could weaken Spain's position within the framework of the decolonization process followed at the United Nations. The agreement - as clearly explained in its second paragraph - does not imply any change with regard to the Spanish position on sovereignty and jurisdiction over Gibraltar. The treaty has obviously been signed by ministers from the United Kingdom and Spain, not by any local authorities in Gibraltar. Thirdly, the agreement establishes a strengthened system of administrative cooperation, providing for liaison bodies - Article 4 - and a joint coordination committee - Article 5. The parties, namely Spain and the United Kingdom, may freely designate the bodies and authorities with the powers and rank they deem most appropriate for the proper functioning of this agreement. This scheme also includes the exchange of information on certain categories of income and assets of particular importance for the fight against fraud in the area. The agreement also sets out a number of rules for resolving conflicts of fiscal residence of natural persons with the aim of resolving problems caused by false residences in Gibraltar of natural persons who actually reside in Spain. With regard to legal persons and other entities in Gibraltar, their tax residence is established in Spain when they have a significant relationship with Spain, either by locating most of their assets or by obtaining most of their income in our country or when most of their owners or managers are tax residents in Spain. They are obviously very favourable to Spain as the writing of the VOX Parliamentary Group itself acknowledges. The agreement is therefore an effective tool in the fight against tax evasion in the area. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group concludes by pointing out that the agreement will meet its objectives but that the main fiscal problem in Spain would not be - and I read it textually - '... that of tax residence, but that of the thousands of people who pass the gate every day without any kind of control, and benefit from the indirect tax differential that exists between the two territories'. - I'm closing the date. At this point, as I did at the beginning of my speech, I must recall that this tax agreement is not the only document signed by Spain and the United Kingdom on the occasion of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, but that there are four memoranda of understanding, precisely on the issues mentioned in the proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group, including in particular the rights of our workers, the fight against tobacco smuggling and the environmental issues that defend Spanish interests. In view of its tax implications and the practical results that we are achieving, I must stress that, with regard to the Memorandum of Understanding on Tobacco, which states that the temporary and quantitative objective that, as of 30 June of this year, the average tobacco price differential in Gibraltar should not exceed 32 % with that of tobacco in Peninsular Spain and the Balearic Islands, we are on the right track to achieve that objective on 30 June. That is, the memorandum we signed on tobacco and tobacco taxation is having effect. In addition to these documents already signed, it should be remembered that Spain's agreement will be necessary for any future relationship between Gibraltar and the European Union. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech by calling for the House to vote in favour of the ratification of the international agreement on taxation and the protection of financial interests between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom for the reasons that I have been derailing throughout my speech. It is an agreement aimed at survival, which is framed in the broader context of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and which has been negotiated with a vision of state; for the first time in our history it allows to end an anachronistic fiscal situation, which is tremendously detrimental to the interests of Spain as a whole, but above all to the territory covered by the municipalities of the Commonwealth of Municipalities of the Field of Gibraltar. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Valentina. A proposal has been tabled with a view to amending the whole of it by the VOX Group. For the defence of the proposal, Mr Rosety Fernández de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u4	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Kingdom of Spain is today the only country in Europe suffering from a colonial situation. The colonizing power is one of its main allies, the United Kingdom of Great Britain. In fact, Spain has to endure a foreign military base in the Bay of Algeciras, with which it is not fully sovereign, a base that devalues its position in the Strait as a strategic actor and subjects its citizens to an intolerable colonial servitude, providing cheap labour and suffering organized crime induced by the presence of the colony, exposing them, in case of little, to military and even nuclear risks that do not correspond to us. You, the government of the progressive coalition, are now bringing us a tax treaty concluded in the name of national interest - sorry for the national interest, tell it popular if you like it more - when what really serves is the interest of the United Kingdom, continue to enjoy the Penion in memory of the extinct British empire and at the modest price of £50 million, which is what it costs you, because in reality the base and the colony that sustains it are financed at the cost of the breakdown of the Spanish Public Treasury and the misery of the environment of the Field of Gibraltar. Today I have the honour to rise to this rostrum for the first time to defend the dignity of Spain and the national sovereignty, which resides in the Spanish people, so damaged in their own self-esteem for this secular dispute, and I will do so by defending the amendment to the whole that my parliamentary group has tabled to the one known as the International Agreement on Taxation and Protection of Financial Interests with the United Kingdom in relation to Gibraltar, a treaty that involves cowardly closure and unworthy recognition of the colonial situation in Gibraltar. Gibraltar is a colony, not because it says so VOX, but because it was recognized by the British Government in its day and above all by the United Nations through its General Assembly resolutions 2353 and 2429, which urge the United Kingdom to negotiate the terms of the decolonization of Gibraltar in accordance with the principle of restoring the territorial integrity of the colonized State, that is, of Spain, not of the self-determination of a population that is not a people as a population of the Government. Intending to cover up an indecency that, if repaired in it, would embarrass British citizens themselves, the United Kingdom Government and its colonial agent, Mr Picardo, present the colony as the economic engine of the region. The reality is quite different: Gibraltar parasitizes fiscal, labor and socially to the bay of Algeciras. [[Give it up.]] The wealth of the plains, which enjoy the third per capita income of the world, contrasts with the poverty of its neighbours in the region and, in particular, of our beloved population of La Linea de la Concepción. That differential, Minister, is called colonial exploitation; an exploitation that is based on consented illegal activities, such as tobacco smuggling - which comes with up to a quarter of the tax revenue of the colony - and money laundering, along with other illegitimate activities, such as gas stations and bunkering. All this, thanks to the fluidity of the gate, which they like so much. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, under a strange sovereignty, Gibraltar is a hotbed of smuggling and laundering and induces an organized crime activity that is causing us serious security and law and order problems. Nor is that VOX, says the Council of Europe through Moneyval, its Committee of Experts on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Following his recent visit to Gibraltar, Moneyval has issued a report indicating the following. Leo: Gibraltar has not demonstrated effective investigation and prosecution of the money-laundering crime; there have been no successful accusations or convictions from third parties; the risk of financing terrorism is not properly managed; the quality of suspicious transaction reports is worrying. They're big words! Brexit is a historic opportunity to put an end to such abuses, as nothing can now prevent Spain from positioning itself within the legal framework that favours it - that is, the UN resolutions, the Treaty of Utrecht and the Schengen Treaty - and thus restore its undermined sovereignty. That is why the United Kingdom's negotiating position on Gibraltar after the Brexit is extremely weak. Gibraltar was and is outside Schengen, because it was never the United Kingdom party to the treaty. Therefore, even if Spain does not recognise a border on its own soil, the fence is an external limit of the European Union that Spain has an obligation to control in order to avoid illicit traffic, without the need to close the ground communication and leaving the interests of the labour market safe. Contrary to what the Llanitos and their spokespersons tell us in Spanish politics and media - which are not few - it is the Gibraltarian economy that depends on Spain and not the other way around, as has been dramatically demonstrated by the controls established in the course of the pandemic. [[applause]] Up to eight hundred weekly trucks have passed the gate with essential items. In the workplace, this dependence is more than obvious. Gibraltar employs, according to its own sources, some 8 000 Spaniards whom it needs and yet discriminates socially and wagely. Recently he has denounced it Workers' Commissions, nor is it VOX. Well, just by devoting investments and subsidies to La Línea, a part of the 1 billion that - I insist - Gibraltar makes us lose every year, we could solve the problem of those 8,000 compatriots, but the minister, as her party, does not think the same. Sovereignty does not seem to you to be an interesting option in the 21st century, according to your own statements, Minister; that leaves it to the British. It is rare, because we are very busy here in Spain discussing how many sovereigntys fit into the bull's skin and Mr Picardo is in a hurry to add, of course, that of Gibraltar. We do not notice that the world revolves around us, around the crossroads of the Strait, and will continue to do so for the benefit of others while we are distracted by the provocations of the separatists or Mr. Iglesias and his senseless socialist palms. You, Minister, are an expert in international relations, but you seem to forget it, lost as you are at that table of the Moncloa as immense as the cover of a carrier but somewhat less organized. [[Give it up.]] When a negotiation like that of this treaty is entered into, it starts with the definition of an objective, and the British know what theirs is, whitening the tax paradise to serve the purpose of always, Rule Britannia! Ours seems very limited, putting on its site the Spanish tax evaders. Not that I'm wrong, but that's not the problem. Let us therefore focus on this treaty, which brings us here today, a treaty that deals with two major issues: tax residence and information exchange. It could be deduced from a reading of the text that disregarded the contentious that it is an interesting agreement for Spain because it would put a stop to tax avoidance by individuals and companies living and operating in Spain as tax residents in Gibraltar. But this really is an illusion, because the main fiscal problem that Gibraltar poses is not that of residences, but that of the thousands of people who cross the border every day without any kind of control - I have seen it - and benefit from the indirect tax differential that exists between the two territories. And it is that unlike other tax havens promoted by the British, Gibraltar is not a hard-to-reach island, but is a land-bound territory of the Peninsula. This makes the injury caused to Spain by so-called fiscal dumping much greater than in the case of other tax havens, which can hardly be solved by means of tax residence rules and information exchange agreements. An exchange which, by the way, excludes previous successes, in the case of 2018, 2014 or even 2011. Thus, this treaty only serves to prevent Spanish tax residents from circumventing taxes through the creation of companies in Gibraltar, but leaves intact the tax privileges of the plains. Perhaps because of your own addiction to realistic school, Minister, you have recently emphasized the need to maintain good-neighbourly relations and to create an area of shared prosperity in the region. In such a case, his idealism would have led him to choose an expression that reminds him of the famous Sphere of Coporosperity of Great East Asia - that is what remains -, a formula with which the Japanese intended to justify their colonial domination of the rest of the Asian peoples; pure colonialism, ladies, everything is invented. What prosperity are we talking about? If that of the Gibraltarians, or perhaps it refers to the web of spider woven for forty years by the socialists, who continue to dominate the Commonwealth of the Field of Gibraltar, because suffering the unemployment rates, which come to exceed 30% - and that before the COVID - the rest of the inhabitants of the region only reach the crumbs. It seems that that wealth and employment engine that the Llanite Government claims to be Gibraltar is caught. The tax treaty does not affect the main problems that for Spain the presence of a colony on our soil only helps to bear it. Our workers will continue to be discriminated against on wages, will be excluded, in fact, from the generous system of well-being of the colony and when they retire they will receive a poverty pension. The tobacco smuggling mafias, let alone the narcos, which eventually become the same, will be able to continue to operate and launder the money through sophisticated legal networks designed by Gibraltar's law firms. The rich plains will continue to enjoy housing owned by Llanite companies in La Línea and San Roque and will continue to pay no taxes in Spain. Llanite companies will continue to carry out bunkering activities in Spanish waters, polluting the natural environment and harming Algeciras Bay. In return, with the signing of the Spanish tax treaty, the tax haven is whitewashed and, for the first time in three hundred years, recognizes the jurisdiction and competence of the local authorities. [[Give it up.]] This recognition by Spain weakens our legitimate rights of sovereignty, leading Fabián Picardo to claim to the United Nations as a people the neighbours of Gibraltar - he has already done so -. This is the result of the unworthy position of the Spanish Government, which has put the accessory in front of the main. The issue now is to seize the historic opportunity to end a colonial situation that offends not only Spain, but international law itself. [[Give it up.]] Then we can place in its place those who abuse the need and the resigned good faith of the inhabitants of the region, a region that could be the Costa del Sol but that looks like El Paso. Go to the Field of Gibraltar, as I do, it is precisely my constituency, and you will see it. For this reason, we will not give our consent for Spain to be bound by a treaty that does nothing for its own interests, but is only aimed at managing a reality that is contrary to them. We reject an agreement that, like the present, is not part of the claim to sovereignty. Gibraltar, ladies and gentlemen, it's Spain! Thank you. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u5	Thank you, Mr. Rosety. Mrs Martínez Granados, speaking in turn, spoke by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u6	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am returning to the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies after these months in which the health crisis has opened a parenthesis of death and desolation in the life and work of all Spaniards and millions of people in the rest of the world. Therefore, I would like my first words to serve to remind those tens of thousands of people who have lost their lives in Spain because of the coronavirus and, of course, their families. I hope that all Members of this House will be able to honour their memory as they deserve. I also want to send all my support and energy to those who are still fighting in hospitals. All our solidarity with them at these difficult times, because statistics are made up of people, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to thank and acknowledge the work done by the health workers, the State Security Forces and Corpses, the people who have worked in cleaning, the supermarket workers, the pharmacy staff, farmers and livestock workers, all those people who have helped us and kept us while we were all in a situation of economic hibernation and confinement at home. Finally, I do not want to forget those parents who have had their children locked up with responsibility, those companies and SMEs that have allowed their workers to telework, those self-employed people who look to the future with uncertainty, not knowing what is going to happen tomorrow, as well as all the Spaniards who are still in a ERTE today. In Citizens we are leaving our skin for you. You're not alone, we're going to keep working for you. Saving lives and saving jobs are the only reasons that move my party. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an amendment to the whole of an international tax agreement between the United Kingdom and Spain which has as its objective Gibraltar, within the framework of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. This agreement has three fundamental objectives: to combat tax fraud, to defend Spain's interests in taxation and fair competition between companies on both sides of the fence and to establish clear rules on taxation between the two territories. It establishes rules of residence in line with the generality of international conventions to avoid double taxation. It includes a clause which particularly benefits Spain, and is that, in case of doubt about residence, residence in Spain will prevail. It also collects strict rules that will avoid tax evasion. It establishes a strengthened system of administrative cooperation, including the exchange of information on persons, companies, income and assets and free access to the Commercial Register and the Peñón Property Register. It gives wide powers to the Tax Agency to participate in simultaneous tax inspections and joint control of the colony, to investigate and gather information, as well as to monitor persons and businesses who have been engaged in this cross-border activity and who have worked in an opaque manner during all these years. It contains very specific rules for the European Union's law on mutual administrative assistance to continue to apply in the bilateral relations between Spain and Gibraltar, both now and in what can subsequently be regulated by the OECD or the European Union with the Council of Europe and the G20. From the fiscal point of view, which is what the agreement comes to regulate, we believe that we are facing a very important and beneficial text for Spain; it will be very useful, above all, in the fight against tax fraud; it solves in large part some of the problems that the area and Spain have had, arising from the fraudulent loss of tax revenues to the detriment of Spain, and it avoids unfair competition between businesses that are located on both sides of the fence. It also involves an exercise of transparency between Gibraltar and Spain, increases fiscal control and allows for the real exchange of information about the colony, which is a great step forward in relation to the situation we have had so far. This tax agreement is one of the most important instruments derived from the Spanish prerogative obtained in 2017, which allows us to negotiate bilaterally between the United Kingdom and Spain on Gibraltar's status. Therefore, moving forward on this path is the right way, always respecting Spain's power in this area. This prerogative was not respected in 2018, when the European Union and the United Kingdom were negotiating on Brexit. There was an article that defended this prerogative, but it was eliminated throughout the signing of the agreements to which the minister has referred, but it could be solved, and it could be done with the participation, of course, of the Government of Spain, but also of the European Union. The most important thing is that this agreement, from an international point of view, helps us to continue to respect that Spanish prerogative in the context of the Brexit negotiations, as well as that the British and Gibraltarian authorities comply with what has been agreed. From the point of view of the impact of this agreement, the most important thing is that it helps to solve the serious problems faced by the Campo de Gibraltar by the special status of Peñón. If we stick to the VOX agreement, we have to say that in that amendment you have tabled they even say that the agreement is good, even though they leave it as a ridiculous victory, when what the Gibraltar Camp really needs is for this agreement to come into force and be voted in favour. This amendment does not seek to value the agreement from a fiscal point of view, but only to talk about the sovereignty of the Peñón and many other problems facing the province of Cadiz and, in particular, the Campo de Gibraltar. I'm from Cadiz, we have a lot of problems in the Gibraltar Field. The problem is that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party, when they were in government, wanted to solve it. We have one of the most important ports in Europe and Spain, but we do not have a train that unites it with the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe. But that is not the problem; the problem is the opacity and the differences between Gibraltar and Spain during all these years. The adoption of this amendment would have an immediate effect of preventing the entry into force of an agreement, which already comes very late and which is absolutely necessary, because it severely limits the ability of individuals and companies to commit tax abuses to the detriment of our country. It is important that self-employed workers and families in the Gibraltar Field know that they can rely on Citizens to achieve agreements that will improve their daily problems. It would be in order not to forgive us for missing this opportunity that this agreement gives us to put an end to the inequalities and problems that have created for years this opacity with which Gibraltar has operated, which has led us to have far fewer investments, far fewer jobs and far less economic growth than our province deserves. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u8	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is my first intervention in this forum in times of pandemic and, first of all, I want to express my deepest condolences to all the families that have lost a loved one and also to thank all the people who have been on the front line healing us, caring for us, as well as to society as a whole, because without their responsibility, without their solidarity, we would not be where we are. We have avoided a much worse situation. The debate before us today on the agreement between Spain and the United Kingdom on Gibraltar is a debate on taxation. This agreement deals with fiscal measures, and you, the VOX Group, are proposing to reject this agreement, an agreement which you do is to combat tax evasion. With the one that's falling out there, you come here today to propose denying an agreement that fights tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you doing this? Because you are a reactionary political force that has as international references to Trump, Bolsonaro - with all that implies having as reference to two presidents who are a danger to humanity - and your task is to prevent any kind of measure aimed at redistributing wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, in their own written statement they recognise that the agreement is in favour of the interests of Spain. You recognise that the agreement is good for Spain and yet you propose to deny it; you propose to deny an agreement that fights tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, what will the People's Party do? Are you going to vote for VOX? Well, VOX doesn't stop being a People's Party split. [[A honourable Member: It is the truth.- Rumors.]] You share a lot of things. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Well, it's the truth, isn't it? They share, for example, that patriotism - patriotism - of flag and bracelet that as soon as you can take the money to a tax haven instead of paying taxes in Spain, taxes that serve to finance the public services that so essential have been revealed in this crisis. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] What would we have done in this pandemic without public health, ladies and gentlemen? But it's that you don't defend public health, you defend private health and save whoever you can. [[Rumors.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, are the political representatives of some of the economic elites who seek to maintain their privileges; moreover, you are not even representatives, you are those economic elites. [[Laughs.]] Another thing that VOX's lordships share with the People's Party is that among their ranks they have people with nobiliary titles. [[Several Members: Hala!]] People of the nobility. [[Rumors]] Tell me, ladies, has the king convinced you to give bread and milk to the poor? [[Rumors and protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u9	Quiet, please. [[Protests continue.]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century the redistribution of wealth does not work that way. [[Rumors.- Mr Spinous of the Mounts of Simon: It is a shame!]] I read that news a couple of days ago, thought I woke up in the Middle Ages and said, "What is this?, the 11th century?" The redistribution of wealth in the twenty-first century works thanks to the action of the State, which through instruments such as taxation, such as the provision of public services, is capable of correcting inequalities and guaranteeing human rights. [[Rumors.-Mr. Matarí Sáez utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u11	Quiet, please! Mr. Matarí, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, what we are facing right now is the social and economic reconstruction of our country, and for that we will have to debate and talk and think about how we are facing fiscal reform. We're going to have to think about how we move forward to achieve greater fiscal justice. This is not a minor issue, this is a priority issue, at least for our parliamentary group, which has made proposals in this regard. Because now, more than ever, a basic principle of justice must be fulfilled, which is that more should be contributed by those who have more, because those who have little and are now making the income declaration know perfectly well that there is something here that is not right, because, perhaps, with what little they have, they go out to pay, and others, who have so much, contribute very little in proportion to what they could contribute. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to face this debate. You have been very clumsy in proposing this debate on the agreement because you have tried to divert attention to other issues, but in fact what you have opened up is the framework for discussing fiscal justice, which is an issue that you do not like because, I insist, your role as a reactionary political force is to prevent any kind of redistributive justice that would guarantee social rights. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. Let us apply the Echenique rule, the one baptized by Minister Salvador Illa as Echenique rule, and let us ask ourselves every day what I have done during the worst epidemic in a century to help my country. [[laughs]] Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u14	Thank you very much, President, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Also from the People's Group we want to launch an excited memory to the victims and their families and, above all, to congratulate the health workers for the Princess of Asturias Award, which was failed yesterday. They deserve it and they deserve it a lot. [[Give it up.]] Today we are discussing the ratification of an international agreement on taxation and protection of financial interests with the United Kingdom in relation to Gibraltar, an agreement that was approved by the Council of Ministers as early as March 2019, that is, more than a year ago. As you know, the United Kingdom has decided to cease membership of the European Union and this disconnection will occur - if everything continues as planned, which is never known - on 31 December 2020, i.e. in six months' time. So they are going to allow me - because this is what will mark the voting orientation of this parliamentary group - to stop me first from analysing the transcendental, which is the government's position on the Brexit, and I will then proceed to analyse the agreement. We are, ladies and gentlemen, facing a historic opportunity, and I say well, historic opportunity, because Brexit changes the structure of a game board that has been in motion since 1713. Both the United Kingdom and its colony, Gibraltar, now become a third country, a country outside the European Union, just like Morocco and Turkey, which means that the famous fence is not only a separation with Spain, but also with the single market, with the Schengen area, and that, in addition to being a border with Spain, it is also a border with the whole European Union. Well, in the face of this historic opportunity, a unique opportunity - I tell you - in almost 300 years, Mr Sánchez's government has once again shown enormous weakness. Our lack of political weight in the European Union is reflected not only in the negotiations we are having on the CAP, which are so important for agriculture and livestock farming, but also in historical causes such as this. This isn't from today. President Sánchez was unable to introduce the Gibraltar issue into the UK withdrawal agreement of the European Union in 2018. It is true that to bring something to sell home it adopted a kind of formula that consists of a declaration attached to the agreement, which is of a legal validity nimia, and a protocol of those four memoranda that serves primarily for the purposes of the United Kingdom. That is, to be understood: it left the question of Gibraltar outside the strategic interests of Europe in the Brexit, which makes Spain not count on the negotiating force of the European Union in this negotiation with Gibraltar, but rather on the weakness of a government practicing a theory called preventive surrender. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: All right!]] I would like to make it clear that the People's Party, the party that this parliamentary group represents, will never give up or ever give up Gibraltar being a part of Spain. In fact, in 2017, when we were in the government, we managed to ensure that any agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union that was referring to Gibraltar had to have a previous bilateral agreement between Spain and the United Kingdom. That is why this agreement can be made. We trust that you will be able to maintain what you have negotiated for us in the interests of Spain, because I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister, that it is still disappointing that the first treaty you sign with the United Kingdom is an agreement establishing a set of administrative and fiscal institutions in the Peñón without passing through or having a mention of the importance of restoring territorial integrity. This inability to react and this lack of ambition is very dangerous to Spain's interests. I do not know if it is that you - you have already said it your comrades of Podemos - lack interest in the cause either because you now consider it right or patriotic or, as you like to say now, extreme right, but it is you who are breaking a traditional position and one of the oldest consensuses in the history of Spain. As you well know, Minister, decolonization is not a subject of left or right, it is a mandate of the United Nations. Gibraltar's sovereignty was, at least so far, a matter of state, and what less to call the opposition when the terms that compromise Spain's future are to be altered. This is confusing, Minister, a state policy with a government policy. You will understand that your alliance with Podemos and the various servitudes with the independenceists are not a source of any tranquillity, either with regard to foreign policy. I understand that you are accustomed to rule without asking for forgiveness and, of course, without asking for permission, but you have to keep in mind that you are not infallible or eternal. So, if they compromise everyone's future, don't fool them into telling us that all the time they're holding our hand, when they're actually tied behind their backs, and they're talking, because together we'll do better. With regard to the treaty before us, this convention consolidates a tax regime that all previous Governments have fought against, regardless of its political colour. It is the first treaty that Spain signed with the United Kingdom since the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 and what it does is to enshrine the existing tax system in Gibraltar, which has grown at the cost of suffocating the Gibraltar Field. If Gibraltar is not included in the European Union's list of tax havens today, it is because that list only included third countries and the United Kingdom was part of the European Union. After the Brexit meets all the requirements to be directly included in the list of tax havens, which also directly extorts the European economy and taxation. This agreement has no mention of the compensation of Gibraltarian tax rates and, far from eliminating this tax haven, strengthens the tax exemption of offshore companies. It also recognizes certain State structures and a coordination committee which establishes that Spain and the representatives of Gibraltar, appointed by the United Kingdom, feel on equal terms. In this way Spain and Gibraltar are placed on an equal footing and any claim to international bodies is eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is at critical times in history that strong governments must demonstrate their leadership and negotiating capacity, and at a critical time for the European Union the Sánchez government has had an irrelevant attitude and is taking a great opportunity. I ask you, Minister, to change the surrender for ambition and to live up to the Europeanist vocation of the Spaniards, to defend the interests of Spain, to defend Spain's interest in claiming Gibraltar's sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u15	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u16	Spain can do better because we have done it in the past. And there don't doubt he'll have us by his side, just there. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u17	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Gómez de Celis has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u18	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words from this attrition, like the rest of my fellow speakers, are to add to my sympathy for the victims of this terrible pandemic. My respect for the pain of their families and loved ones. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a historic; historic moment for two reasons. Firstly, because it is the first agreement signed between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Kingdom of Spain in relation to Gibraltar since 1715, from Utrecht, and it does so with the specific objective, which has well described and detailed our minister, of eliminating tax fraud. With this, ladies and gentlemen, after thirty years of having Gibraltar on the list of tax havens in Spain, thanks to this agreement, it becomes an ally to fight tax fraud through transparency and cooperation, in order to crystallize the fiscal scenario of the area. On the other hand, we also add an effective and useful tool to prevent fraudsters, criminals and corrupts from trying to search for shelters to take their loot there, to Gibraltar, something that - I repeat - we also avoid with this agreement. Perhaps that is why the right wing is so reluctant to approve this agreement. For let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, all those who take money to Switzerland, all those who take money to Panama, all those who take their money to Andorra or even those who take their money to Gibraltar do so with a Spanish flag on the wrist, now also on the masks, to dishonor Spain and to dishonour our flag. [[Give it up.]] Secondly, this agreement is historic because of the agreement reached by President Pedro Sánchez with the European Union for Brexit. We have the last word: the European Union leaves the right to decide in the hands of Spain on everything related to Gibraltar with regard to Europe. By the way, exactly as the People's Party called for in its electoral programme; exactly like that. However, they add to the far right. I am afraid that around this agreement that the People's Party began with Minister Dastis, at this time it has gained the spirit that surrounds the People's Party, that of Margallo, which is more ultra against all the interests of Spain in relation to Gibraltar. The goodness of the agreement has already been described by the minister. However, the right, this Siamese right, with the same body and two heads - Married-Abascal, Abascal-Marsado -, opposes, and let's see why. According to VOX, the intention of British and Gibraltarians is to be recognized as a political entity. Look, Spain continues to defend its historical demands on Gibraltar's sovereignty, and it does so where it should, in the United Nations. Moreover, as has been said, it is also included in the agreement itself, in its preamble, that we do not renounce sovereignty. The People's Party, with its necessary co-operators, is worded - attentive, ladies and gentlemen - that the mafias of tobacco smuggling will see their incomes reduced. Poor people! And of course, these poor mobsters, says VOX, will have to complement other illegal activities. That is, that, according to you - the ultra-right and its necessary co-operators, the People's Party - we better leave things as they are. No, you're going to have to do that by telling the civilian guards, the police, the customs guard who, thanks to the Special Security Plan, play their lives every day in the Gibraltar Field. That's what you're gonna have to do. [[Give it up.]] In fact, that plan, which the Ministry of the Interior had launched and in which I humbly participated and as a government delegate in Andalusia, has already borne fruit: EUR 24 million invested, 7,133 arrests, 216,446 kilograms of seized drugs, 1,083,418 tobacco cases, and now this agreement to attack the Mafia funding lines. Yeah, that's how this deal works, too. They also talk about VOX and its necessary co-operator, the People's Party, that workers will be discriminated against in social benefits. Look, the agreement itself includes premises on the welfare of workers in the Gibraltar Field, but, as our minister has rightly pointed out, the memorandum also guarantees the rights of workers in the Gibraltar Field. I'm finishing up. The bottom problem on the right is that he uses Gibraltar as he uses Venezuela, Catalonia or ETA when things go wrong. We are going to defend legitimate rights over Gibraltar, our sovereignty, with firmness, but with open hands. You, the right, face the problems with Gibraltar as heirs of Francoism, and I do not say this because of the Francoist manifestos signed by Mr Rosety, I say this because - as Mr Abascal proposed in November 2019 - closing the gate again, with the discomfort he created, and waiting for his own VOX colleagues in the Gibraltar Field that these workers are also Spanish. You, the right hand, face it with cunning acts to provoke the Gibraltar authorities; we, by signing agreements of loyal cooperation against tax fraud and with the United Kingdom. You, the Siamese right, use Gibraltar to generate confrontation, division, chryspation and hatred; we face it as the citizens of the Gibraltar Field do daily, living fraternally, in good neighborhood and even forging families on one side and on the other side of the fence. And we do it with the same accent, Andalusian, no matter what it is spoken in Spanish or English. Therefore, and always from the firmness in the defense of the interests of Spain, against sterile provocations, loyal cooperation; against hatred and chrispation, fraternity and humanity. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Rosety Fernández de Castro asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr. Rosety?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u20	May I go up to the stand?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u21	No, there is no planned intervention. On the basis of what article does the word ask me, please? It is just that, Mr Rosety, there is no other intervention planned, which is why I say to you whether you can tell me on the basis of which article I am asked to speak.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u22	72.1, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u23	Yes, Mr. Rosety.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u24	I would like to make a point in relation to what has been said here. First of all...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u25	I'm sorry, Mr. Rosety, it's just that that's not an article that empowers the replica. The debate has taken place, the debate has not been reopened at any time and I will therefore not give you the floor. Thank you very much. Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your comments, for your comments and to conclude this intervention by inviting you to support this bilateral agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom on taxation. I do so because I think that, beyond the words - the good, the bad, the adjectives, the adverbs; many - we have a unique opportunity that we cannot let go to solve a bigger question concerning Spain's sovereignty, which is fiscal sovereignty. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u27	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u28	We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the whole of the bill on the tax on certain digital services. The Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u29	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Indeed, I stand before this House for the bill on the tax on certain digital services, a bill that was approved by the Council of Ministers on 18 February and against which the parliamentary groups of the People's Party, VOX and Citizens have submitted amendments to the whole and request their return to the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the drafting of this law responds to the need to address the fiscal challenges posed to us by the digitisation of the economy. This is a new taxation of the 21st century that responds to a dual objective. Firstly, to have a fair and progressive tax system that would enable it to fulfil its social function under the Constitution. A glue for social cohesion necessary and essential in an advanced society. An instrument that allows us to redistribute some of the wealth and income, which is the essence of a society - it is what unites us - so that we have public systems of sustainable protection; in short, to have a welfare state. So that in this pandemic, for example, unlike in other countries, you can go without any problem to the doctor without anyone having to care what you have or not on the credit card. So that children from unresourced families can take the social lift and become a doctor, engineer, programmer or professional waiter. So that our parents have the old age they deserve or that no child in our country is left without food, so that they have a minimum living income. That's what we're talking about today. Secondly, because the world has changed. Every day more and more the economy is digital. We have seen this during this pandemic, in which the confinement has allowed the habits of citizens to have been focused on the management of networks, on the management of the whole digital world that for some groups was not friendly. In fact, it is an economy that has not been built up with a corresponding taxation. We have at this time in our country - and I would say that in most parts of the world - analog taxation in a digital economy. The current taxation is designed for the economy twenty years ago. Traditional businesses pay proportionally more taxes than digital ones. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this situation is not reasonable, it is a situation that needs to be changed; it is something new that needs new tax figures. And you will see, ladies and gentlemen, these new digital business models are largely based on the ability to carry out remote, even cross-border, activities with little or no physical presence. We are talking about companies whose business model is based on intangible assets, data and contributions from end-users to the creation of this value. The current corporate tax rules were designed for traditional companies with a material presence, but are insufficient for this digital business model. And they are insufficient because they do not take into account that there are companies that can provide digital services in a country without being physically present in it. They are insufficient because they have difficulty preventing the relocation of such intangible assets or jurisdictions of scarce or even directly zero taxation. And they are also insufficient because they do not recognize this role that users play in value generation by providing data or content generation. This tax is a necessity in the face of this new economic reality and also a first step towards progressively bringing our country's tax levels closer to the average of the eurozone countries. They know of the need to have a progressive, fair system that is capable of meeting the demands of citizens, and that is why we all need to contribute to taxing pedagogy, if I may be allowed this colloquial expression. We have to achieve a fiscal awareness in the citizenry, which is always important, but at times like those we now live, it becomes absolutely essential. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, two things. First and foremost, not to deceive the citizens when we approach the reform of fiscal policy; that is, to recognize without caps, compromises or lies the evidence that without a fair tax system there is no education, no health, no social benefits. And, second - and I am also referring to this double measuring rod used by opposition parties when it comes to taxation - ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious at least in this matter, the biggest tax increase in the history of democracy was carried out by a People's Party government. I did not agree with Mr Rajoy's policy, which in his first eighteen months of government carried out around forty tax increases, and I did not basically do so for two reasons: the first, because it caused this tax increase to fall into middle classes, into working classes, to which he impoverished massively. And, the second, because at the same time it approved for a select minority a fiscal amnesty, an amnesty that the Constitutional Court ended up declaring illegal. I believe that we must already leave that empirically unsustainable approach, according to which, the less resources the State has available, the better for citizens. It is an approach that is not ultra-liberal, I would say that it is ultra-infant and that, in the circumstances that our country is experiencing, it is a ray of irresponsibility; I believe that we must leave behind an irresponsible delegitimizing attitude of tax systems. The data speak for themselves, we just need to see them, they are clarifying the situation in our country. See, Spain has a share of public revenue in relation to GDP of 39.1%, more than 7 points below the euro area average. We are the sixth country with the lowest public income on the euro area's total GDP. It is obvious that our country has a clear margin to improve collection and is a necessity to maintain the welfare state; therefore, for a responsible Government it is no longer just a good thing, but a real necessity. This project, which we discussed this morning, will charge the 3% rate for advertising, online brokering and the sale of data collected from information provided by the user, all in line with what the European Commission has suggested. It will only oblige companies whose turnover in the previous calendar year exceeds EUR 750 million worldwide, 3 of them in the Spanish territory. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not going to have any impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, unless one of your ladies and gentlemen believes that with EUR 750 million in turnover it corresponds to the category of small and medium-sized enterprises. The tax we are proposing does not impose, and I want to make it very clear, the retail activities of e-commerce or online sales between individuals. It is defined as an indirect quarterly settlement tax which will enter into force three months after its publication in the 'Official Gazette of the State' and which provides for a provision for its collection not to be made until the end of the year. Because, ladies and gentlemen, one of the disputes that has generated this tax, and which is reflected in all the amendments tabled, is its anticipation of the conclusion of the discussions concerning it in international forums. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, our country has been criticized for staying behind in certain policies and for not having initiative! It now seems that these amendments criticize the opposite; if Spain is left behind in fiscal matters, it is better than better for some. It seems that here we can make progress in anything but improving tax systems. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when some speak of waiting or that the later the better what does it mean? What if it's never, great? That if we can't start new figures, better? And I want to say in this regard that Spain has been working for many years in international forums, both in the OECD and in the European Union, to reach an international agreement on this tax. And it is true that there is still no agreement among States on the solution to be adopted; however, this has not prevented this figure from coming into force in other countries in order to further advance this path; clearly not, reference countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Austria, Hungary, and also Spain have already opted for policy measures to try to tax on their territory part of the activity of the major technological multinationals. Of course, as the law says, it is - I insist - a decision of a transitional nature until regulations are adopted at international or at least European level. The opposition of the forces of the right and the extreme right, on this occasion with the support of Citizens, have something in common with regard to this draft law: in no case do they claim that taxation really contributes to the support of the welfare state. Some of these political formations, namely the People's Party and VOX, continue to join on this front of the no, not even the health crisis or the devastating effects on the economy have deterred them from a bet on a widespread drop in taxes as a master formula. Doesn't that mean, ladies and gentlemen, to ideologize everything? Because since the declaration of the state of alarm they have not stopped claiming more public spending, they do so every day; among other reasons, they say that it is necessary to mitigate the economic effects of the pandemic. That is true, the time has come to move towards a new taxation, and they declare themselves directly objectors. And I'm not going to generalize, but much of the arguments against this project, let me tell you, are pure facade. Because it seems to be a question of conscience, but they object to a tax designed primarily to tax the activity of large multinational companies that barely contribute in the countries where they generate profits. They are going to allow me to stop here and look at the reasons for each of the parliamentary groups opposing this tax. By following the order of priority from major to minor, I will start with the amendment signed on behalf of the PP by the parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo. His lordship starts his exhibition by referring to the cancellation last February of the Mobile World Congress by the organizers of the event after the first cases of coronavirus were detected in Spain, a cancellation very criticized by the government, says Mrs De Toledo in her writing, and it is true, but then we all did not know the actual extent of the outbreak of coronavirus, and not only us, the World Health Organization did not declare the pandemic until March 11. He cites the Government's criticisms of such a cancellation, but he does omit those made by the People's Party itself. The Minister of Health, Salvador Illa, recently - he appeared in the Commission before a Member of the PP - gave up remembering the things you were saying on certain dates. I am the Minister of Finance, I am doing so in this plenary and I am also addressing your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because your president, Mr Pablo Casado, attributed the cancellation of the Mobile World Congress to the independence drift of Catalonia. As you can see, nothing to do with the COVID-19. Opportunism, ignorance, bad faith, or rather a combination of it all, in a cocktail - the one you prepare - in which you never lack drops of excesses? The former Interior Minister of Mr Rajoy's Government, Mr Fernández Díaz, also spoke out against the suspension in an opinion article published in La Razón, entitled 'The plagues of Egypt'. Do you know who the ex-minister blamed for the suspension? Nothing more and nothing less than the 'Social-Communist Government of Sánchez e Iglesias', and the expression is literal. No trace, ladies and gentlemen, of the coronavirus. After mixing, in this introduction of the amendment to the whole, the cancellation of the Mobile World Congress with a macroeconomic picture that qualifies as unrealistic and with the pandemic of the coronavirus, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo concludes the exhibition with a sharp statement: tax measures must go for rebates and not for increases. With so much argumental depth that it spreads around two and a half leaflets, I fail to understand what are the reasons that lead the People's Party to oppose this bill. It's a text-it from the front of the no -, believe me, it has no content. This House deserves respect, Your Honor, it is not a showcase that can grab headlines or a few seconds of television, it is not that element for making a public exhibition. It is nothing more or less about the word, the political debate, the confrontation of ideas, the search for alternatives; in short, it is about being useful for citizens' policy. And, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, this amendment as a whole has been filled with disqualifications, it has been signed by your spokesman with a number of issues that I believe are somehow consistent with this dynamic that you have been carrying in recent times. But let me say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the position of your group varies according to time and place, because less than a month ago, on 15 May, in the European Parliament, a resolution was adopted proposed by the parliamentary groups of the People's Party, Socialists, Liberals and Greens, in which, among other issues, the Commission was asked for new own resources for the European Union, including a tax on digital services. And you know what? The MEPs of the People's Party voted in favour of this initiative. And as for the time, I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that this tax which you are now dispossessing of was a proposal from my predecessor in office, Mr Montoro, Minister of Finance of the last government of Mr Rajoy. Have you forgotten that there was a proposal from the People's Party for the development of this tax? Have you forgotten that there was even a communication to the European Commission in the last stability plan, where it was pointed out that a tax would be sought for the 21st century on this matter? It was Mr Montoro who, in 2018, proposed to implement this tax, he said, because he proposed a tax that was necessary for the welfare state. To cover the pensions, he said in particular. He even proposed a 5% rate, two points more than the one contained in the government bill today for debate. I'm going to read you a literal transcript of Mr. Montoro's statements. He said - I say quotes -: It is not a tax on consumers, but on large companies, which, as we have already denounced, do not pay enough where they have a large turnover. And Mr Montoro added: This tax on large digital companies will make it possible to finance the state better. Its forecast was to enter up to 1.5 billion in 2019. But that gives you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, exactly the same thing. Also the then Minister of Economy, Mr Román Escolano, joined the chorus of tax supporters. Mr. Escolano demanded that it enter into force as soon as possible and pointed out the last months of 2018 to put it into effect. It is not fair - Mr Escolano said - that traditional companies pay taxes and technology do not contribute. That's what you said, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. That is why I wonder: in such a short time have they lost that status of government, in the mouth of that argumentary in this bill, that they now despise what only a couple of years ago defended and supported under a government of Mr Rajoy? Maybe someone thinks this responds to a double morale. I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen. It's more serious. I think that the People's Party doesn't care about politics, it cares about power, and that's why it doesn't matter whether it contradicts itself, say or say Diego doesn't care, because, in short, when it comes to disqualifying is not the important thing the object, it's the important political opponent to try to bring it down. [[Give it up.]] It is possible that in the VOX amendment we can find some meaning or explanation for this incongruity of the People's Party. VOX, in short, is the real alpha and omega of this change of the People's Party. Mrs Macarena Olona, deputy spokesman for the parliamentary group, signed the amendment of her entire party and her conclusions were the same as those reached by the People's Party. The amendment begins by arguing that the tax would have a negative impact on digital service users, including SMEs and startups. It speaks of a situation of confiscation contrary to law, of direct and non-indirect taxation, of erosion of business competitiveness. Even this argument acquires dramatic tints stating that it will more than double the current tax burden borne by many entities. Then put in the text, ladies and gentlemen, a paragraph of the Constitution which in no way corresponds to the whole argumentary, a sort of short and sticky of the Constitution which does not go in line with the other objectives and argumentary that you propose. Because can you really claim, ladies and gentlemen, that the tax affects SMEs, startups, digital users? I have just explained that to be subject to tax you have to have a business level of 3 million euros a year in Spain and 750 worldwide. Are these 750 million for you a form of SME benefit? Little is known then about our country's taxation and SMEs. I would say, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that it separates us from infinity in our social model and that, therefore, it also separates us from infinity in our concept of taxation. Finally, the amendment to the whole of the Citizens' Group - signed by his spokesman, Mr Bal - states that the economic crisis caused by the COVID health crisis makes this tax inappropriate. Mr Bal says, - I also read textually not to distort words - that the devastation to which the Coronavirus pandemic has subjected to our economy should be a reason enough to banish the possibility of thinking about the introduction of new taxes in our system. Really, lords of Citizens, do you believe that? Have you thought about it? Do you think that these are the criteria that Mr Fuentes Quintana and Mr Fernández Ordóñez - both ministers of UCD - had when they promoted a modernizing tax reform that opened the doors of Spain to a tax system proper to European countries? Do you really think that if you had supported this proposal that you are making, you would have lit up a democratic transition as we did at the time? Because I do not know exactly what your ladies and gentlemen propose, that in times of difficulty, in times of economic crisis, it is better not to touch anything, not to adapt to the new reality in order to try to cope with the fall in income, for example, that our tax system suffers in a situation like the one that has left the pandemic? That is why, Your Honor, I do not believe that the fact that we are facing an economic crisis arising from health care is an inconvenience - quite the contrary - in order to correct the issues that are not adjusted in our tax system. We must be able to approach a similar tax formula, which is close to that of our European partners. My perception, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, is that you do not really think what you have reflected in the amendment. I'm asking myself some questions that I think you guys are asking, too. How is the public health system improved? How do we fund support for our elderly? How do you pay the minimum living income? I have no doubt, Your Honor, that the Citizens' Group wants to strengthen and reform, improve the welfare state, but I think you are well aware of the answer. We need an efficient, fair and modern system that adapts to these constitutional criteria, which are the reality of Spain and today's world. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, let us be sensible in this case by modestly taxing - you see, at 3% - a new business model which until now hardly returns to society a minimum, insignificant part of the benefit that is obtained, as proposed - I insist - by the previous government of the People's Party. We are criticized, ladies and gentlemen of the citizens, that with this draft we are moving ahead to the European consensus. I have already argued earlier about the paradox of criticizing that it is coming before, that in other cases it is coming late, and that it is coming, as is the case, to a medium term such as the one proposed by the Government. They also argue that the companies concerned will transfer the cost of this tax to the consumers, who will ultimately be the big losers, but, your honor, according to this approach, the tax figures that tax the economic activity of the companies could not be touched, since, on the basis of that argument, they would have a direct impact on the customers. According to that view, it was not that we could no longer touch any tax figure, but that all of them should be eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, of VOX and of Citizens, you should know at this point that reducing taxes really does not generate growth, but quite the contrary, makes the welfare state weaker, makes our society less strengthened; in short, that we are all less strong. This tax favours the middle classes, and I will repeat it in this House as many times as necessary. This crisis is not going to be paid for by the families of the workers, the middle classes, the self-employed or small and medium-sized enterprises, but they do, together with the middle class of our country, need strong public services, quality health, a university that allows their children to go to that social lift. This new bill on certain digital taxes opens the way to a new taxation of the 21st century, a taxation that has to be fair and progressive. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, a digital taxation for a digital economy, a taxation that does not make traditional businesses less competitive, because for them classical taxation works. It is a new opportunity to look at the world and get closer to it, to allow us to continue to grow and to be proud of the public services we have, to legitimize them and to continue paying them with our taxes. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the redistribution of a part of wealth, which is the only thing that allows us to say and call ourselves a society. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u30	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Three amendments to the full refund have been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u31	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been alarmed for three months or so. During these three months, thirteen royal decree-laws have been passed as a matter of urgency to meet the needs that this country has had during this crisis. Of these thirteen royal decree-laws, ten were voted in favour, to be treated as bills. For none of these ten royal decree-laws are being dealt with as draft laws, because the Government and the Bureau of Congress seem much more interesting to give way and space to a new tax in parliamentary work, still in a state of alarm. However, the processing as draft laws of the royal decree-laws, where the opposition can work by proposing amendments and improving the text and measures for citizens, is not urgent for the Government. Well, it doesn't feel right. I wonder, what is more urgent, to create a new tax or to help the Spaniards with amendments and improving the texts of the royal decree-laws, when it has already been decided to treat them as draft laws? [[The Lord]] Mrs Montero, I tell you one thing: you read the part of the amendments you are most interested in. I should have started by saying that in Citizens we believe that this type of tax should be put into effect. That part's skipped. What we believe is that neither when proposed the first time, before the crisis, nor now has room, and for different reasons. Before the crisis in Citizens we understood the need to modernize our tax system and create tax figures that adapt to the new markets, because this digitization process is unstoppable, but we must do so within the necessary international consensus. Leaving aside the crisis - because it has always been outside the crisis - there are four reasons that have led us to present this amendment in its entirety: the unilaterality of the creation of this tax by Spain with regard to the rest of the countries, the concern that causes us to slow down the process of digitisation of the economy and the distortions of the market, the lack of assessment of what the impact on consumers and businesses is going to be, and, of course, the unreal collection targets that the Government has set itself. The idea of this tax on digital profits has already emerged years ago in the OECD and has been working on it for a long time, but it has not taken out anything that we can implement. The European Union, seeing that there were no regulations from the OECD, also tried, in collaboration with the Member States, to create such a tax, but it has not arrived, and Spain is now going to be a pioneer in creating a new tax. Before the crisis we believed that it was not feasible, because we cannot depart from the European Union, we cannot work outside the rest of the countries, but it is even worse now. The United States has already shown its concern for the implementation of this tax. We cannot lose sight of the fact that some of our industries, the most important in terms of their contribution to GDP and the number of workers, are going to be retaliated by the United States. There are many situations that are difficult to deal with in the best way, but in this we already have the notice of the tariffs that the United States has marked for products such as wine and oil. Are we going to repeat it again? It is also curious that we do not see the experience of other countries; for example, France, which wanted to do something similar to what Spain is doing now and which, seeing possible tariff threats, took a step back. Vice-President Nadia Calviño stated that Spain would wait for the OECD, but shortly thereafter, given the tensions and disparity of criteria within the Executive, she decided to take a step back and present it now. The government's proposal differs from the European proposal, always seeking greater collection by establishing a much lower exempt threshold, and subjecting to taxation a large part of intra-group transactions. Interestingly, it is not hidden that these types of taxes are going to be much more targeted at collecting. The Government does not hide that what it wants is to collect more and, in fact, puts it in the memory of the analysis of the normative impact. Only the reasons pointed out so far suggest that the implementation before the unilateral tax crisis was not viable, but that is that now, with companies trying to get out of this economic paralysis, it is even worse. Digitalisation enables productivity and innovation to increase and boost entrepreneurship and the growth of economies of scale, ultimately a higher competitive level. We have a challenge in Spain, and it is fighting against the small size of our companies. With this type of tax, what we do is slow down its growth, expansion, putting obstacles to entry into global trade. The introduction of this tax would be totally counterproductive in terms of the allocation of gross domestic product. BBVA Research says in a study that an increase of 10% in the digitisation index represents a growth of 0.75% of the gross domestic product per capita, and would also reduce the unemployment rate by 1.02 percentage points. Why put Spain's economy in a state of economic crisis as a result of a health crisis? It also puts at risk potential market distortions, enhancing offline channels in front of technological channels or promoting the use of digital channels owned by large companies in front of marketplaces, which bring small companies together. It will be the users who will end up bearing this cost de facto, Minister. It has already passed the mortgage tax; Mr Sánchez was asked if there were any mechanisms to make him not reach directly the people who were going to mortgage, and he just shrugged his shoulders and said: we will expect the banks to be responsible. Here they do the same again, and it is incomprehensible that it has not been collected, that it has not been foreseen how it will affect both individuals, consumers, and small businesses, who will not be able to participate with the same ease in the marketplace, where they are advertised and where they sell their services and products. The effects this can have on the state's collection are also clear: less profits for businesses and less corporate tax collection, and it may be thought that perhaps it can increase VAT collection but, let's be honest, it will lower the collection of companies that are most affected. Evidently a digital tax would grant the State a collection, yes. But you know what? Tiny for what you proposed at first. First they talked about 1.2 billion that could generate in the previous legislature; now they say that 900 million could generate. But it turns out that the European Union is already telling us that it is not going to generate, it is not going to enter more than 550 million. What are we doing? Do you know what they have to do? What this Government has to do is to lower public spending, what this Government has to do is to stop creating during the state of alarm new high offices, twenty-three in particular, in some of the royal decrees that have brought to this House, and slim down the mastodontic government they have. This is how crises are overcome, not creating new taxes for companies to pay. We agree with this type of tax, we agree, Mrs Montero, but not unilaterally, we have to do it according to what the European Union is doing or what the OECD is doing. We're going to be exposed to U.S. tariffs. Explain that to the farmers, who are already suffering from these tariffs. In Citizens we believe that it is not time to do so, it was not time before this crisis and it is not time now either. The reality is that this new tax was passed because of the government's need to cover that expenditure, but what they would have to do is better manage. We believe that the isolated approval in our country of a fiscal burden of obvious global consequences will significantly affect our competitive position with the most advanced countries in the world, in addition to putting some of our major industries at risk as a result of the introduction of potential tariffs. Now is not the time, the time is when we all in the European Union and the OECD go hand in hand together, because even the sector believes in this type of tax, but not now and not unilaterally. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u32	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Next, for the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor by the VOX Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an honour and a great responsibility to intervene for the first time in this rostrum and before all its ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to offer my first words of sympathy to the relatives of the deceased because of the COVID-19. May the souls of our dead rest in peace. Amen. And let the perpetual light shine for them. I'm in the reference case. They bring us to this House the bill of the tax on certain digital services, the evil so-called Google rate, as the first great act of its manifest tax inefficiency, and as a trigger to exit the massive rise in taxes that awaits us all Spaniards. And it is that this tax is going to be secondary to the tax on financial transactions, the harmonization of corporation tax, the modification of income tax, the rise of taxes to diesel through so-called green taxation, the property tax and the inheritance and donation tax. With regard to donations, Minister, through Law 5/2020 of the Generality, adopted yesterday in the midst of the pandemic, a law of fiscal measures, the donations made to natural persons made by associations and foundations are reduced by 95%, so that the coups and sedious can receive such donations practically free of charge. As long as, in this same law, Catalans are taxed. What do we call this after your speech, Minister? You continue to deceive the Spaniards and the Catalans, but we will continue to denounce your wrongs and injustices like this. This rise in taxes has a clear collectivity, in order to maintain its ideological agenda and its elephantic government, with an endless number of high-ranking officials and advisors appointed to the finger, who account for more than EUR 75 million per annum in salaries, i.e. 46% more since Mr Sánchez landed in Moncloa. And all this in a time of unprecedented crisis. To this, Minister, what do we call it? To preach by example? Let's not be fooled. This tax hike was already planned by you long before the health crisis we suffered. The year 2019 closed with a deficit of 2.8, compared to 2.54 in 2018, and the spending agenda that you and your government partners put in place only increased the deficit forecasts. And it is that internal voices of their governing partners admitted that, if the deficit had to be lowered, and they had said that the expenditure had to be increased, somewhere the money would have to be taken out. That is, that you square the accounts by evading the entrepreneurs and the Spaniards while maintaining their privileges. Let me tell you that in the face of the deficit you can act in three ways: by optimizing the structure of the Administration by making it more agile and efficient, by increasing taxes or by making a combination of the two. Unfortunately, you have chosen the most harmful route for citizens and businesses, for a brutal rise in taxes, on the excuse that our low tax pressure gives rise margin. By the end of 2019, you expected fiscal pressure to reach 39,6% by the end of 2020. Quite a record. A lot of happiness. Do you know what level he was at in 2009? At 29.7%. And all this without taking into account the submerged economy. But Spain does not have a low fiscal pressure, as Spain up to the start of the pandemic collected 11% less than the EU average, because at the time it has twice as much unemployment, much smaller and weaker companies and more submerged economy. But let's get back to fiscal pressure. In calculating the fiscal pressure, the mistake is made, because the submerged economy that does not constitute it is included in the GDP, and the huge differential of unemployment and business fabric with other economies is ignored. Thus, the fiscal effort of citizens and contributing companies is triggered, as long as you repeat that little is collected and, instead of attacking the submerged economy and unemployment, attack job creators and citizens, creating a downward spiral in which we are always taxed; and then they say that little is collected. You, Minister, I think you know - or if not, I better tell you - that the design of the taxation of countries is key to improving or worsening their competitiveness. A country with high fiscal pressure will inevitably have problems attracting investment, growing and generating employment. On the other hand, a neutral and competitive system provides a lever for economic activity. You, when you talk about harmonising taxes, in your language and in your dictionary, what you come to say is to go up, up taxes, and all because of the fallacy of financing huge increases in political spending, with the message that those who have more have to pay. However, in the end, we ended up paying all the Spaniards. The fiscal pressure on companies in Spain is 1.2 percentage points higher than the EU average. The regulatory tax burden, resulting from the corporate tax burden, is 16% higher than the EU average. All this is well known by the taxpayer, the entrepreneur and all job creators. Everyone, except you, because you don't know, or, if you do, you don't want to know, or, if you don't, because, when you do, you end up thinking like us, and you don't like that. But let's go with the first of the confiscatory hammers, the tax that brings us to this House. In the investiture speech, Mr Sánchez repeated assiduously that one of the main economic purposes was to digitize our economy, which has been shown to be key in this pandemic. However, you bring us this tax precisely against digital operations, thus penalizing your progression and the possibility of attracting investors who invest in an unstoppable digital transformation. Minister, don't you find that contradictory? In short, you promote digitization by penalizing it tax. But this tax is nothing new. We can analyse what has happened in other countries, and the truth is that the experience has been nothing positive. We talk about this in the spirit of rehabilitating, not charging officials with more work and not generating more discomfort in companies than they already have. The rejected proposal for a Council Directive on the common system of tax on digital services already stated in its article that the best strategy would be to find an international and multilateral solution to this problem, since otherwise the failure to coordinate the measures adopted by the Member States individually may fragment the single market and distort competition by hindering the development of new digital solutions and the competitiveness of the Union as a whole. As you see, you are taking a giant step to prevent digital development in Spain, one of the keys to increasing productivity and, with it, employment, wealth, prosperity; yes, wealth, that which you try by all means, first, to reduce and then to distribute crumbs. There have been some European countries that have started to propose this tax; France, for example, has paralysed the collection of this tax until December 2020, waiting logically for an international consensus on this issue. By the way, France, with 67 million inhabitants, expects to raise 500 million; and we, with 47 million inhabitants, expect to raise 968. You'll tell me how we do it. Why now raise this tax, when the OECD is working on a comprehensive tax solution? This comprehensive agreement of 135 countries is expected to be reached by 2021, and at least there would be no loss of competitiveness in the sector in Spain. In Spain, much to their regret, we have great entrepreneurs and there are companies that would be affected by the tax. Guess who's finally paying this tax? Indeed, the final consumer, those families who, on the one hand, were given the possibility of delaying - but not exempting - the payment of telecommunications services. They will see how in the future they will have to pay an extra for certain digital services. Several reports of January 2019 from various technological associations, including Ametic and Adigital, estimated the increase to be paid by Spanish consumers when using certain digital services in an amount of between 515 and 665 million euros. That said, Minister, you'll end up paying the usual. Similarly, this tax would have a devastating effect on our admired fabric of technology companies and startups - yes, minister, startups - which in turn make use of the digital services included in this bill. These companies would end up paying as end-user this tax, experiencing a loss of their operating profit by increasing costs, increasing the advantage of foreign exporters over the Spanish, and reducing productivity and competitiveness. All this would reduce their capacity for growth and, therefore, for generating employment and wealth. Come on, just what Spain needs right now. This tax for you has one good thing, it will provide you with an even bigger state that costs us more and that is more inefficient. The amount of administrative procedures for your collection and control will have a cost that will further reduce the optimistic net collection that you expect. And to conclude my speech, I ask you, Minister, to listen to this deputy of VOX, without compound surnames and that he is not a dick - as we have been called - even if it seems so. I assure you that I come from a tremendously humble family and that I have been working since I was seventeen, because I had to help at home, and while I was working I was doing my studies, combining both tasks, being the effort made to get here unprovoked. And yes, I'm from VOX for my own convictions. In fact, before landing in politics I was first a worker and then a businessman, being my specialty as a tax consultant and adviser, and let me tell you from my experience that they are wrong, because a widespread tax increase, initiated with this tax on digital services, will provoke greater recession and less investment and therefore less collection. I'm done, President. During her tenure as Finance Advisor at the Board of Andalusia, she increased the inheritance tax, something that magnified her and was a measure that provided relief for many families. I ask you to follow that path and do not let yourself be infected by your government partners, whose obsession is to raise taxes to destroy the business fabric and further impoverish the population and, in this way, create beings dependent on the state for the sole purpose of perpetuating themselves in power. Remember, what we do in this life has its echo in eternity. It is up to you to be remembered as a light that shone in so much darkness or, on the contrary, to be a darker part of this dark government. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u34	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] I now have the floor to defend the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bas Corugeira.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u35	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are intended to express a sense of remembrance for the deceased victims of COVID-19, and to join in the immense pain of their families. I would also like to express my appreciation for the magnificent work done by our health workers, by the Security Forces and by all those people who, with their daily essential work, have managed to win the battle against this pandemic. Turning to the subject before us, I am going to argue the position of the Group of the European People's Party on the bill on the tax on certain digital services presented to us today by the Government. Before this project, we have some questions to ask. Firstly, we wonder whether the nature of this tax is reasonable and, in our view, yes. We understand that it is necessary to adapt our tax framework, together with the rest of the countries, to the new digital business models. In the same vein, the OECD and the European Union have also spoken, as you said. But is it appropriate to put it now and how the Government is doing so? Here the answer is no, and here is the basis for our request to return this text. We say that it is not appropriate, among other reasons, for the following: on the one hand - and I am sure that the Minister will agree with me because she has also explained it in this line - this tax is to be developed and agreed in international bodies, whether within the framework of the OECD or the European Union and, on the other hand, the Minister - and you will agree with me too - because you yourselves in the explanatory statement recognise the transitory nature of the law and the necessary adaptation of it to the future legislation adopted internationally. We already agree on something. You know that in order for this tax to be fair, and above all effective, it must be harmonised in the international context of the so-called digital single market, because if this is not the case, tax distortions between countries and our companies would be detrimental to their competitiveness. Having said that, let us not be fooled; you do not pose this law thinking of tax justice, you seek to satisfy that innate collection effort on the left with justifications loaded with demagogy, demagogy that you constantly use, demagogy that you even use when you speak of social shield - and today, here, social elevator - because what you claim is only to build a huge fiscal shield. [[Give it up.]] It is paradoxical that in this time of pandemic his ministry has hardly applied tax cuts with which to boost our economy, as did other countries and, however, propose the creation of a new tax that, although initially burdening companies in the digital sector, will eventually be passed on to citizens. And at this point I will remind you that the tax hike that the People's Party had to undertake in 2011, was to cover that 70 billion hole that its party, the Socialist Party, left in Spain and the accounts it left behind. This tax reduction was achieved in subsequent years, but it was their management, their mismanagement that led to the People's Party raising taxes. The line you're following goes the same way. I recognize that negotiations within the framework of the various international bodies are not being easy and that this has led to the delay in the implementation of this tribute. But if this is true, it is no less true that there has been progress in recent months, and one of them is that in the event that an international agreement is not reached by the end of 2020, the European Parliament has already supported the commitment of the President of the European Commission to come up with a solution within the Union that will enable it to be put into effect. In addition, however, it has already been published that there is a substantial shift in the approach to this tax, as the European Commission has raised the possibility that this tax will increase the Community budget rather than that of the Member States. If this is confirmed, this tax in Spain could not be applied. It is therefore not justified for Spain at this time to start the dangerous way of establishing a tax unilaterally, since it is a tax with multiple international implications that has generated a great controversy from the very first moment that it began to be discussed. By unilaterally imposing this tax, what this Government is doing is putting at risk, once again, the productive sectors of our country; sectors of our economy that are already being harshly punished, such as the countryside or the car, will be threatened by their exports if this unilateral path thrives and this, moreover, is aggravated by the context of crises that are already very complicated. Minister, it's already happened to you with the virus. You had before your eyes the example of Italy, you did not give it due importance, you reacted very late, and the serious consequences of this delay are not paying you, you are paying all the Spaniards. [[Give it up.]] In the present case we have the example of France, which has already tried to implement this tax, also unilaterally, and has had to postpone its application because its exports were going to be seriously damaged. I remind you that the forecast for the fall of Spanish exports by 2020 is estimated at 30% and you, with this law, come to aggravate the situation in an reckless, senseless and incomprehensible way. Mrs Montero, every decision made by a government that affects the economy must be very thoughtful and aimed at strengthening the productive fabric with which to achieve a greater generation of employment and wealth for the country. If, moreover, this decision is made in a crisis situation like the one we are experiencing, there is no room for errors or frivolities, and unfortunately this Government has already become too accustomed to errors and frivolities. They serve as an example the statements of the Minister of Ecological Transition regarding the diesel, which caused a severe blow to the automotive sector; or the statements of Mr Garzón, Minister of Consumer Affairs, about our tourism sector, which have damaged our image at international level and which have caused great discomfort in the sector, to the point where the Bureau of Tourism came to request his resignation; or to propose at this time of crisis the repeal of labour reform, breaking the social dialogue and generating uncertainty such that it is leading to companies not considering hiring or proceeding to open dismissal files. As you see, you are focused on imposing your ideology and your parliamentary calculations, rather than dealing with the problems of citizens. It is a lie that people are giving priority, it is a lie that no one is going to stay behind, and it is a lie because many people who have contributed with sacrifice and affection to the improvement of our country have already left behind. Instead of squandering resources in the processing of laws like this, the Government should be concentrating its efforts on what is truly important, on paying for the ERTEs that are pending, whose delay is causing real dramas in many families; on allowing the remnants of the municipalities to be used by their mayors to alleviate the consequences that the pandemic is causing for their neighbours. [[Give it up.]] I had the honor of being mayor of the City Hall of Redondela. Just as for you this municipality is not known, but for your partner, Minister Ábalos, yes, as it has pending to eliminate an unfair toll on Rande, the placement of screens against noise and the recovery of vials from the AP-9 enlargement environment since 2018. In passing, let's see if he encourages you to get to the task. Well, I told him that I had the honor of being mayor, and believe me that when a father or a mother of a family goes to his mayor to ask him for social assistance, it's because his situation is very desperate. At the moment the need prevails among citizens, the municipalities have resources, but they are blocked by their ministry. Hear the cry of the mayors and allow the use of their remnants to meet the limit situations of their neighbors before it is too late and no longer has a remedy. Focus their efforts on returning the 2.5 billion VAT belonging to the Autonomous Communities so that they can continue to provide essential public services to their citizens, returning the 2.4 billion euros corresponding to the employment policies seized by their ministry in the Autonomous Communities. Minister, I belong to an autonomous community, Galicia, governed by the People's Party and chaired by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who, in addition to developing a magnificent management in the social and economic fields, is carrying out a great management in this pandemic. But it happens that your coalition government Socialist-United Party We may not help. It owes Galicia more than 500 million euros. When are you going to face that debt your government has with the Galicians? But there is more, Alberto Núñez Feijóo has been asking Mr Sánchez's government for a year to set an affordable price for energy so that the electro-intensive industry can be maintained in Spain. Mr Sánchez had made a commitment to fix it, but once again he failed to make a commitment. Consequences: more than eight hundred workers linked to Alcoa, about to enlarge the lists of unemployment. They may not be aware that Alcoa is the only primary aluminium manufacturing company in Spain. Meanwhile, what is your government partner Yolanda Díaz doing to give Alcoa a solution? When it was opposition, banner in hand, it required Mr. Sánchez immediate solutions for the company and now, who is Minister of Labour, he is dedicated to recommending songs on his Twitter account. I recommend that you listen to the issue of jobless, soft people, which crudely describes what the drama of unemployment is; a drama that this government seems to not care about. Are you aware that there are already almost four million people immersed in the drama of unemployment? Will they continue to frivolize this drama with phrases like that of Mr Ábalos: there is more unemployment because there is more confidence in finding a job? You guys are laughing at all the Spaniards. Therefore - and to conclude - we understand that adopting the text of this law today is a serious irresponsibility that Spain cannot afford and, therefore, we ask the Government to abandon this unilateral way of implementing this tax and withdraw this bill. You know, they're only right when they rectify, and this is a very good time to rectify.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u36	Mr. Bas, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u37	I'm done, President. Encourage the negotiation of its text within the OECD and the European Union, which is where it belongs. And, of course, we ask you to abandon propaganda and demagogy, and focus your efforts on solving citizens' problems, not generating them. I'm done. Mrs Montero, such is your trajectory, that you run the risk of going into history as the Minister of Finance who has not been able to approve a first budget, but you do get to approve the creation of a tax that will never come into effect. For the sake of the Spaniards, review your order of priorities. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u38	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum.]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor for the fixing of positions, Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Madam Minister, as other speakers who have spoken before me have said, we understand that this type of tax, as the Government itself was saying, should be harmonised throughout the European Union or within the OECD because, as you know, as much as is said here, a tax of these characteristics, in the end, of course, has implications. If this were as simple as saying: we are going to impose a tax and we are going to collect equis, there would be no objection, but that is not the problem. The problem is that everything has implications and so does this. It has involvement within the European Union because it affects all Spanish companies and it also ends up affecting - how it won't affect! - each of the citizens of this country, and it will also affect, if necessary, those of the rest of Europe. It must therefore be harmonised. No barbarity is being demanded, but something which I believe is common sense and which the Government itself has shown in some of its writings. In this debate what cannot be done is to go out here as a finance minister and say that if this tax is not passed, children will not eat, they will not be able to go to college or we will not have medical assistance. I think we need to be much more serious, much more responsible when we talk about this sort of thing, because that would be as much as I would say that if one of the ministers leaves, who do not belong in the plenary room or in the Moncloa cabinet, the economic problems in this country would be over. Well, obviously, that's not the case either. We must therefore be, as I say, much more serious when talking about tax rates and, with Europe as a whole, being able to come up with solutions for this country. It's not everything: either they're with me or they're against me. In the end, what you like - because you do it where you rule - is to catch the citizens of the ankles and put them upside down until they drop the last of the coins. Obviously, that cannot be the case; we have to build, we have to do things, we have to collect with a political objective, but to collect there has to be jobs, we have to create wealth, because collecting if there are no companies, it will be very difficult. Therefore, let us put the means in place to ensure that we all have an industrial fabric that allows us to really collect so that we can have a welfare state that, of course, we all want. The welfare state is nobody's property; we all want the best health, the best education and the best assistance for all the citizens of this country. Well, it was just missing! Think about it, listen to the opposition for once and let us make this tax among all, but together with the fellow Members of Europe, in harmonization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u40	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Vehí Cantenys. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u41	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Minister, from our perspective, this tax is good news: pay the most who has it, and this is a gesture to pay the most who has it. Let me point out that yesterday it was known that the monarchy wanted to give the Princess of Asturias Prize to the health workers and that it started a Twitter campaign of many health workers who said 'I don't want 1' prizes. [[Thieves]] We also suggest, Minister, that if Mr Bourbons passes through the courthouse we will have more public resources for health, for education and for what is desired. Returning to the tax, the Network is a space, obviously like the rest, where wealth accumulates. We think it is right to tax the traffic of data, content and advertising. In fact, platform capitalism - companies like Amazon or Glovo, or apps like Facebook, Telegram or WhatsApp - accumulate billions of profits at the cost of using citizenship. For those of the American dream and for those suffering for the citizenry I want to tell you that a company like Amazon, for example, during 2019 had a profit of 11,588 million euros and this year, only in time of confinement, of 2,535 million euros. [[points to the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] [[points to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group]] And this is when Amazon lost almost 30% of profits. Imagine your normal gain. Two technical issues are also reflected in amendments by other groups. One about the tax type. We'd raise it from 3% to 5%. We would even raise the possibility that it would be proportional to the type of benefit - it is already partly proportional - by increasing proportionality. And another, the issue of localization and IP citizenship. We think that people should be able to preserve their identity on the Network. There is also some amendment in this respect and we will be working on it in the paper. We're done. The Network, just as it is a battle space in terms of class, is also a battle space in terms of rights and freedoms. And we couldn't finish a debate that talks about the Internet without remembering Julian Assange, persecuted for defending critical journalism. So, to finish: Free Assange! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u42	Mrs Vehí, I would ask you, on the basis of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, to withdraw the first words you have tried to link the Royal House with such tweets, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u43	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u44	Let me put it in the record that he doesn't take the words out. They shall be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. [[Mrs. Vehí Cantenys: No, Mr. President.]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Iñarritu García has the floor... No. [[Mrs Vehí Cantenys asks for the floor]] I've already given you the floor before to make it manifest. [[The lady]] You don't have the floor, Mrs Vehi. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] I give the floor to Mr Iñarritu García. [[Pause.]] He's not showing up. We continue with the Basque Parliamentary Group and Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u45	Thank you, President. It's true, the world has changed. Increasing digital activity and hence digital business business models are a challenge for tax systems based on the early twentieth century; 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. tax systems that, as the minister has said, must be adapted, since they have regulations for the physical world, but not for the digital world. We therefore believe that they must be adapted to the new times, as has been said. In this sense, we believe that the digital rate is going, in the sense of trying to correct a tax anomaly. The advancement of technology, of course, cannot be based on the ability to reduce taxation, but must be based on innovation. This group has always advocated a European rate. We have all been waiting for that solution, but it has not just arrived and all for the political and economic reasons of a few. It is therefore very difficult to reach an international consensus to correct an anomaly when it benefits a few. A rate, as I say, raised a few years ago by Europe but which has been buried by the rejection of countries such as Luxembourg or Ireland, which use tax cuts and aggressive tax practices to attract foreign multinationals to develop a business with no greater added value, which has led to aggressive fiscal competitiveness among countries that, in the face of the regulatory vacuum, offer these types of companies. Our group, therefore, does not stand with those countries that understand that no action should be taken to then act unfairly, as if it were a fiscal dumping. The European Union agreed to wait for a decision in the OECD, but if we take into account that the President of the United States has veto power, the solution will hardly come soon. The European solution is slow and, of course, it cannot be allowed, as long as it does not arrive, to benefit large companies in the sector without just making a contribution. Why should digital companies have a tax advantage over traditional ones? In addition, and according to information provided by companies with a consolidated global turnover of more than EUR 750 million, as set out in the OECD BEPS agreements, the effective rates they pay are lower than the nominal rate of state legislation; there is a study by the Tax Agency. At this point, given the uncertainty that exists about the European solution and once this tax has been raised by the government unilaterally but in line with what has been achieved by Europe, we believe that this tax can serve as an example and pave the way for this European digital rate. It is true that Brussels wants to recover it now, more so in the wake of the health crisis, which is going to have negative impacts on the collection of administrations and, at the same time, an important need for mobilisation of public funds to strengthen, as the Minister has said, health and social services, to mitigate the reduction of incomes of workers, businesses, families and vulnerable groups, and also to address the green challenge. Resources which, of course, should not be lost by waiting for third parties and which can also help to reduce the revenue gap and finance the policies I have mentioned. Where, therefore, is fiscal equity or tax justice or the sustainability of the system if we are not able to tax the revenues and profits generated by digital companies benefiting from low taxation? Some will argue that the Google rate that Europe now intends to push will be allocated to its budget, to its own resources, but it is still missing for this and will not be real this year. But if that were the case, Spain would also benefit from that Community budget through the various instruments which the Commission has put in place. In view of the extraordinary moment at which we find ourselves as a result of the health crisis, we consider this tax relevant for this sector to contribute according to the benefits it obtains, considering, moreover, that this sector has increased the activity as a result of the COVID against SMEs and self-employed, which, on the contrary, have seen it paralysed. Some have criticized this measure for being unilateral and transitory, and because it distorts the market, but this is somewhat difficult, because in order to avoid the tax it should stop selling in the State and the loss would be higher than the tax measure itself, which is of a 3% type. Do the practices of these large companies that circumvent or reduce the payment of taxes by establishing their headquarters in a territory with low tax burden not distort the market? Does it not count that so far there has been a legal vacuum in the regulation? There are also those who believe that this rate undermines competitiveness and digital development by establishing more restrictive conditions than the countries in our environment and that, therefore, business is located in those countries with better tax treatment. But this is already happening, it is a reality, so this argument falls by its own weight. Much has also been said about the tax burden being transferred to the final consumer, and we will not deny it, but this will happen both unilaterally and globally. And I believe, as the Minister has also said, that people should not be underestimated, because society in general is willing to make a greater tax effort, to pay taxes if we perceive that we are going to live better, that we are going to have better social services or that we are going to have better health services. A system where you pay taxes to guarantee public services does not generate questioning the questioning is generated when you pay taxes but you don't know where you are going to be or when your destination is corruption. Nor do we understand very well that unilaterality is criticized when there was already another government, that of the People's Party, which raised this rate, in addition to a finalist tax to pay pensions and, therefore, outside the European coordination that they now demand. I therefore wonder what has changed so that we do not support it now, because coherence is also necessary in politics. Some companies in the sector have moved our concerns about definitions, turnover, fear of double taxation that will have to be analysed or, if necessary, renewed, if they are detrimental to their competitiveness. But it should also be remembered that the mechanisms that were enabled to avoid double taxation have led some large companies to a double exemption thanks to tax engineering, reducing the payment of their taxes both in the country where they have their tax domicile and in the country in which they obtain profits. We do not oppose this tax, but we will be attentive to its processing to remedy those shortcomings that we might consider. We will therefore vote against the amendments as a whole. But I would also like to remind you, Minister, that there are five estates in the State and that is why we will ask for the agreement between governments in the Joint Committee of the Navarro Convention to conclude the normative, sanctioning and inspection capacity, and for the establishment of the points of connection of this tax and of the new ones that arrive on the basis of the Law of the Concert and the Law of the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u46	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Watching the debate today, a film came to my head: The thin red line. Obviously, there is a line that separates from one another: Citizens, People's Party and VOX from all others. What are we talking about? We're talking about big, multinational tech companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook or Apple paying taxes like early morning Spain. That is what it is about, that they pay the same amount that Spain pays as early as early. And VOX, the People's Party and Citizens say that now it does not touch, that later. But the early Spain continues to pay taxes and VOX, early Spain - I don't know what early Spain - doesn't want these big companies to pay. That's what this is about, this red line that separates those who don't want to pay these or pay later or we'll see when they pay and those we want to pay today. Madam Minister of Finance, you know that we have many differences, but that courage that you have shown today with these large companies I hope that one day it will touch the Valencians. I will vote that I am very convinced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u49	Before we begin, a previous one, Mr President: it is in your power to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the allusions made by the deputy of the CUP; it will be more difficult to withdraw it from the newspaper of sessions of the Swiss prosecutor who wants to investigate an alleged fine of 100 million euros by the Saudi monarchy. [[Give it up.]] This discussion today is very relevant and, as it is relevant, there is no insult and it may be less in the media, but it is also very relevant that we have this discussion right now. A few weeks ago we all assumed that we were in an exceptional situation that required an exceptional mobilization of resources and everyone at that time looked at the State because, when a company asked the State to pay the ERTE, it was not asking Google, when it turns out that an autonomous asked the State for financing a line of credit, it did not go to Amazon to ask for it and, when we said that families in more difficult situations must be rescued, people did not do it with WhatsApp, they did it with the State, and therefore one cannot have the irresponsible attitude of wanting the State to rescue, that is, to put the case and, when to contribute, whistle. If the State has to have tools and resources to intervene economically and socially, then that money has to come out of somewhere. After many years, I imagine that, after attending ADE at a private university, VOX's deputy discovers that taxes have a tax drive. It's true, they're eager to collect! Because there are two possibilities: either it is paid by cuts or it is paid by taxes. Look at you, in Spain, the fortune - and I did it Forbes - of the twenty-three richest Spaniards, despite the terrible confiscation circumstances, has risen by 16%. Let us face the real debate, for you the problem is neither the time nor the scale for Europe to do so, for you the problem is that you do not want the richest to contribute. The big technology in 2018 paid around 2% of corporate taxes, a SME could pay up to 25%; again, it is not to raise or lower taxes, it is to whom and, in this case, to balance them. It turns out that Netflix in 2018 paid 3 146 euros. That's the same as 20 Netflix subscriptions. There are more than twenty Netflix subscriptions in Spain, right? It is the same as the IRPF of a person who charges around EUR 2 000 per month. Look at you, that's a firecracker or a robbery. It is not just fiscal justice, it is sovereignty and possible economic development. I don't want Spain to be a colony. If we don't want to have a country that's a record in gambling houses, in balls, in brick and in precariousness, but a country that's a record in laboratories that patent here, in startups and in incubators of companies for the Spanish youth to develop here, in mobilizing public-private resources for the ecological transition, it costs resources. This is a moral and political decision. Either we put among all alike, and whoever has the most puts more, or you continue to defend the benefits of a few. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u50	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr. Ferran Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u51	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against the amendments as a whole. In fact, we agree, Minister, with what is laid down in the draft law in its first paragraph of the explanatory statement and, it is true, the situation of those business models in which there is a disconnect between where value is generated and where companies end up taxing. Therefore, although we too understand that the appropriate framework would be a regulation of the Community framework or within the framework of the OECD, it is true that the different blocking situations can justify a measure such as that being taken by the Spanish Government. But in turn, Minister, with the same force with which we are going to vote today that no to these amendments as a whole, if there are no major amendments to the bill, we would also be forced to vote that no. And I explain to you why I have heard some arguments on the one hand and on the other in relation to this tax. We understand that those companies in the digital field that do not tax in the Spanish State must tax. What would not be fair is that we ended up with a tax that would be paid equally by those companies in the digital field that do not have an employee in Spain, that do not tax on companies in Spain, that do not contribute to Social Security in Spain, that those companies that do pay their tax on companies in Spain, that do generate jobs in Spain, that do pay social security contributions in Spain, that do pay VAT in Spain and the corresponding IRPF deductions, because then we would generate a serious injustice. We do not agree on how the tax is set because it makes companies located in Barcelona that pay their company tax in full in Barcelona, that have thousands of employees in Barcelona, that are paying their salaries in Barcelona and their social security contributions in Barcelona, put the same tax burden as those that are not generating any kind of activity and taxation in Barcelona, Catalonia or the Spanish state as a whole. We have tabled amendments to this effect, and all I ask is sensitivity to deal with this situation, because, if not, if it is approved as it is, they may be saving some injustice with this tax, but bear in mind that they are going to generate some injustice and some fiscal inefficiency in the other area. We are talking about a sector where it is very easy to relocate its activity and this shows that these large companies are not taxing anything in the Spanish state, and we are at risk of having an opposite effect. We believe that it should be taxed, that this tax must exist, but we must be very careful how we do it. Our vote today is a clear no and, if there are no changes, it will remain a no. I hope that we can support the final text if they are sensitive to these amendments. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u52	Thank you so much. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u53	Good morning. Thank you, President. Before we get to the bottom of this, I want to say a few words about what my colleague Mrs Mireia Vehi of the CUP said. We know that the king is inviolable and that from what seems to be the emeritus king neither.... [[a Member of Parliament: Well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u54	One moment, please. One second. Let's see, I think I've already clarified the circumstances with the Member. I believe that there has already been an intervention which has also gone in that direction. I ask you, please, to stick to the point we're dealing with. Otherwise, I'll have to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u55	It seems to me that you are violating the freedom of expression of the various Members, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u56	No, no, the regulation is very clear on this and indicates that you must stick to the point we are dealing with, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u57	Well, let's put my complaint in the Journal of Sessions. I don't know if this is gonna take it off...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u58	You'll see.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u59	Minister, good morning. Undoubtedly, the current context and all the economic consequences of the pandemic we are suffering cannot be ignored in this debate. All the macroeconomic forecasts made at the time of the adoption of this tax by the Council of Ministers last February are in the antipodes of the picture that is now revealed to us. A few days ago we knew the figures of occupation, almost half a million people in unemployment alone in Catalonia, 30% more than in May last year - forecasts that support a rate of unemployment of about 20% -, a reduction in private consumption of about 12%. This is automatically translated into a decrease in the collection of taxes and contributions. What seems to be that has not changed is the answer that some parties want to give to this new social and economic crisis, and simply answers the question: Who are the costs of this crisis going to fall on? We cannot allow them to move again to the people who already paid for the previous crisis and to their working and living conditions. And in this context, a fiscal reform that is progressive is necessary if the tax system is to be a good driving force in the way out of this crisis. We are at a time when public investment needs will grow and we must give them a fair and equitable response. This requires - albeit not enough - a thorough reform of the various existing tax figures and the application of new taxes on wealth and capital. We have already made a number of proposals in this regard: a COVID rate that charges big fortunes, a minimum effective taxation of 15% of corporate tax and the elimination of the tax privileges of socimis and sicavs. The tax that we are debating today imposes on the major technologies, which are once again benefiting from the global confinement caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. And that is why, contrary to what the very patriotic parties of the bracelet ask, which defend the amendments to the whole, for us, given the current context, it is even more necessary to speed up the collection of this rate. I put a question to the bench on the right: How do you plan to get out of this? The PP clearly explains it in your text, you said it, minister. Tax reforms must go for rebates, not for increases. Repeat again the Laffer curve mantra: at least taxes, more collection. This theory has been applied on several occasions over the years and it has been shown that it is not. What is the true intention of the right? I understand that it is not to bother large companies that can secure a future position on the board of directors. As I have already said, in a context such as the current one, needs to increase public investment even more rightly. We therefore believe that the tax rate should increase by 1 or 2 percentage points in an extraordinary way. Similarly, we also believe that Catalonia should participate in 50% of the collection of this new tax. The underfunding of the communities is transferred directly to the welfare of the citizens, since they are the providers of the basic services of the welfare state. We therefore believe that any increase in the tax basket should have a real impact on the financing of public services and, therefore, on the financing of the autonomous communities. In short, we will vote against the three amendments tabled by the right-wing party in full, with the intention that the Government should be courageous and begin to apply this rate as soon as possible, along with other much-needed fiscal measures. The current situation requires a greater fiscal effort than those who have the most to reduce the impact of this crisis in terms of inequality. I conclude, President, by hoping that the right of expression of Members of this House will never again be violated. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u60	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] You have the floor of Mr Guijarro García. [[Mrs Vehí Cantenys spoke words that were not perceived and asked for the floor.]] No, you don't have the floor. We continue the session. Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u61	Good morning, everyone; thank you, President. I wanted to start with the obvious, by showing the solidarity of my group and my own towards Congresswoman Mireia Vehí, by the arbitrariness she suffered a few minutes ago. We do not understand how it is possible that a more or less denoted description of an Internet campaign has been avoided. We are already reaching absolutely unbearable levels. [[Give it up.]] By entering the matter, Minister, it is clear that with the tone that has recently acquired the political debate in Spain anyone would say that we are far from reaching any agreement on anything, let alone on fiscal policy. In fact, it is the three rights that lead us today to this full debate on a new tax figure, the tax of certain digital services, which hardly homologates us with some countries in our environment such as Italy and France. Therefore, having forced this debate is already in itself a statement of intentions - and you know it -: if you do not even agree to discuss an objectively necessary instrument, tested already in our European environment and that it would report, at best, some billion to the public coffers coming from companies that make a lot of money in Spain but that barely tax on it, it would seem that they are not willing to discuss anything. The right-wing, especially citizens, have drawn from the European argument, hoping that this new figure will be implemented within the framework of the OECD. However, after more than nine years of debate within this organisation, as well as at the European Council itself, and because of the repeated veto precisely of those countries that have criticized the European rescue plan most, the result cannot be more disappointing, and it also explains why the main countries in our environment have already taken similar measures unilaterally for months. Moreover, in no case does this parliamentary initiative hinder the European debate, but in any case enriches it by bringing to the negotiating table a tax tool already tested and to a great extent very similar, as we said, to that installed in countries such as Italy. But the most worrying thing is that some right-wing spokespersons intend to bring the much-needed debate on fiscal policy in Spain from the next ten to twenty years to an impossible terrain, devoid of any sense of logic and proportionality. The VOX bench, the natural inhabitants of the mountain, gave it all to a supposed plan of reduction of expenditure, which is nothing more than the Freudian manifestation of its particular phallic fixation - and allow it to say so - the one expressed in the form of centralist delusion. For its part, the People's Party calls for a general reduction in taxes, thus squandering any real possibility of posing a serious debate on the fiscal needs of our country. On the other hand, since this debate is so urgent and because the starting positions are so far away, in order to get closer to that basic agreement to which I referred at the beginning of my speech, I propose that we start from certain high-level constitutional consensuses in Spain for forty years and that they have only consolidated in these last extraordinary weeks. And I ask you to value them in the light of certain objective evidence. I'm going to try to be a little more pedagogical than you, Minister, to see if you understand. The first consensus is that we need robust, strong public health with sufficient resources, i.e. not cut or squeezed, as has been the case in recent years. Well, according to Eurostat data, convergence with the European average in investment in our public health would mean an increase in the health budget of around EUR 13.7 billion. The second consensus is that quality public services improve the quality of life of all citizens, not just those who make direct use of them. Well, in education we invest almost EUR 9 billion less than the European average and in dependence we are 50% of the average in all OECD countries. Therefore, if we agree that this is important, we will rather have to talk about how we save this hiatus and not how we increase it. The third consensus - and these are also consensuss with the right, in theory - is that our elders are entitled to decent and sufficient pensions and, if we do not agree, say: we do not want decent and sufficient pensions. But, well, apparently we have this consensus. As you know, the highest level of social security that the State handles is precisely this, and it will hardly be possible to reduce if the age pyramid continues to gain weight from above as it loses it below. For this year, the State has already committed more than EUR 144 billion in pension funds. Does anyone think that, given these population trends, it is possible to reduce this area without affecting both, and at the lower end, these rights? Does anyone really think so? The fourth consensus - little by little - is that the State must seek a safety net for its citizens that prevents them from falling into the grip of exclusion and poverty. Well, in the last two months, the state has invested some €9.6 billion in unemployment insurance, i.e. more than half of what was invested for the same purpose throughout the previous year. However, everything indicates that this figure will rise further, given the circumstances, even if we do not add to it the three billion euros of minimum living income; a measure, by the way, which has a very high degree of social consensus, also among the voters of the right, by the way. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there is a consensus in Spain to maintain and consolidate the welfare state. Now let's get to the evidence. The first, the most egregious, is that the crisis in the West will, according to the most elaborate estimates, lead to a fall in public revenue of more than EUR 25 billion. We have the same needs or more and we have just lost EUR 25 billion. Therefore, when the PP asks to lower taxes, I tell you not to worry, that they have already been reduced de facto by operating the automatic stabiliser. In short, we can say, one, although social items represent by far the bulk of social expenditure, of public expenditure, in Spain, there is a high degree of consensus on its relevance and even on its need. And two, the fiscal architecture in Spain will not be able to sustain these needs while avoiding a high deficit without having previously undertaken a comprehensive tax reform in Spain. Any actor who recognizes these two truths and has a minimum interest in the future of Spain, of course, should immediately feel compelled to sit with the government to negotiate an immediate tax reform, a reform that allows us to escape the dead end to which otherwise we would all be engaged, but not. [[The lady]] In this Chamber there are groups that deny the greatest, that are embarassed in the cold and insult with the same fruition with which they cover their lack of concrete proposals, their vague arguments, lacking the slightest economic foundation or technical rigour; in short, their marketing tricks from three to four. We have, of course, come to that call for help, because it is not a call from the Government, but from the country and because, yes, we do, the future of our country and its citizens is what matters most. We say that in order to bridge this gap the State must increase the tax burden on higher incomes, since the middle and working classes already bear a considerable tax burden. That's why we put on the table a new tax figure, the big fortune tax. We propose that those assets above EUR 1 million, once discounted up to 400 000 per first dwelling, be taxed with different types. According to the calculations we have made, we can be talking about some 10 billion a year.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u62	I'm sorry, Mr. Guijarro, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u63	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u65	He said that we estimate about EUR 10 billion per year. It seems to be an ambitious figure, but remember that it would still be far from the 25 billion that we are going to lose this year, at least for the effects of the coronavirus, that is, that this proposal is moving towards a solution to the problem, but in no case does it completely solve it. Now I ask the rest of the parties represented here to take on the gravity of this debate, to understand everything at stake and to feel the pressure that brings us a citizen distressed by their future. I'm done, Madam President. For our part, we are willing to listen, to be self-critical and to face negotiations with humility, without believing in the possession of any revealed truth. This new figure that I have just proposed may be better, even the digital services tax that we are discussing today may not meet certain expectations, but the lack of will to start this debate that today shows the right wing of this House can only reveal two things: either a lack of knowledge of the most elementary national accounting rules or an absolute disregard for the well-being of our people. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u67	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group rejects the full amendments to the digital services tax because they are considered inconsistent, inconsistent and disproportionate. In turn, we want to defend the need and the opportunity to modernize our tax system in order to bring it into line with a new digital reality. The change in the physical presence by digital in certain activities opens up new scenarios on which we must move forward. There is no justification for allowing large fully digitised companies to have a tax advantage over traditional companies, SMEs or self-employed companies, deciding where to tax in terms of tax competition by requiring little or no physical presence to carry out their activities. This tax asymmetry is the one that is distorting the market, not the tax, that seeks to act on the new business model that generates the data and that can now escape taxation. If the company operates and generates value from the data and contributions of users in our territory, it must tax in Spain regardless of where it has its tax domicile. We share with you the need for international harmonisation, but, if it does not arrive, Spain must not renounce to exercise immediately in its territory the imposition rights which legitimately correspond to it. We must all contribute to sustaining public spending, digital companies too. Therefore, where some see pure confiscation, we see legitimate contribution, from digital companies as well. [[Give it up.]] We therefore consider the amendments to be entirely inconsistent with the defence of the principle of equality and tax justice. Furthermore, we consider them inconsistent, because the international tax debate cannot be defended and its handling and debate at the national level prevented. If we agree with the tax, we must set it in motion, just as other countries are doing, as has been said, such as France, Italy or Hungary. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we strengthen our position in defence of the tax at international level and, most importantly, we force the need for its harmonisation. Five years of discussions have already passed within the OECD, as has been repeated here. It's time to make decisions. We can't wait any longer. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, it is not true that they stand against the tax now for the moment of the pandemic. They stood against it the same time they went to the opposition. You included in the 2018 General Budgets the need to process this tax. Remember, it's a budget that's in place. Here's your signature. [[Show me a document.]] The compromise amendment thus attests to this. What's the value of your signature? After listening to you, I see that your signature has no value. What happens to this tax? That you with Montoro do defend the tax, but not with Montero. That's his truth and not another one. Therefore, enough of so much hypocrisy, enough of so much falsehood. Mr. Bas, here the only demagoguery expressed is yours and the lies, also yours. [[Give it up.]] It is time for them to return to the path of institutional responsibility and to defend our country's legitimate interests. It is indisputable that, if this tax was justified in 2018, now with the crisis of the COVID19 it is even more so. It is essential because we cannot be sure that we are experiencing extraordinary moments caused by an emergency with serious consequences. They cannot deny that the Government is taking decisive steps to strengthen our health model, contain the economic fall and achieve an early recovery, but we cannot finance everything in debt, but we must improve our collection capacity. This tax is therefore also necessary in order to contribute in part to sustaining our health system, guaranteeing the social shield and helping other more punished economic sectors, in line with the proposal put forward by the European Commission. On 14 May the Director of the OECD Centre for Fiscal Policy, Pascal SaintAmans, said he did not oppose Spain's progress in the tax process, provided that he did not give up adapting it to a future multilateral solution. This commitment is included in the bill that we intend to deal with. Therefore, there is no excuse not to do so. Moreover, not all sectors have equally experienced the economic consequences of the pandemic's confinement. In fact, Spain has a position of international leadership in connectivity infrastructures that generates a highly favorable space for the creation of digital ecosystems, with a network with more than ten million users of fiber optics and with infrastructures that are experiencing an increase in the intensity of voice and data traffic more than 80%, which is an unprecedented increase in Spain. They have certainly been key to ensuring that digital services have not been disrupted at the time of the pandemic, but they will likely have contributed to huge profits being reported by larger digital companies. It is therefore also false that this tax can slow down the digitisation process. In conclusion, the truth is that I have listened to them and I have the impression that the bill has not been read. Its amendments are totally disproportionate, because neither SMEs nor startups are subject to this tax, the Minister has explained it perfectly, only those companies with a turnover of more than EUR 750 million worldwide in the previous year are affected and, if they have an establishment in Spain, they can deduct it perfectly from the company tax. Secondly, the definition of the tax and content of the bill ensures that there is no double taxation and that it is consistent with the rest of the Spanish legal system. Thirdly, it will be free market competition itself that guarantees competitive prices without the need for this new tax to be passed on to the final consumer. Therefore - I conclude, Madam President - the new tax instrument in process is necessary and timely and also effective in order to meet the challenges of digitising the economy from a fiscal point of view. It complies with the principles of proportionality, legal certainty, efficiency and transparency, with its publication and communication to the European Commission in order to comply with the rules on information society services. In short - I end as I started - the amendments are inconsistent, inconsistent and the result of a disproportionate criticism that pursues spurious interests above the general interests of the country. For all that, we will vote against the amendments to allow the bill to be dealt with and to encourage a serious debate in the Commission, adjusted to the time and needs of the country. Thank you so much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u69	We continue with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the effective equality and equal pay of the State Security Forces and Bodies with respect to the Autonomous Polices. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I ask you to do with me an exercise of imagination, I ask you to think about what would happen if the Bureau of the House, which, as you know, is the one setting our salaries, agreed that the Members, your ladies and gentlemen, we received a different remuneration according to the province for which we were elected or the autonomous community to which we belong. And I am not talking about residence compensation, I am talking about one Member for Asturias receiving EUR 4 000, another for Madrid EUR 5 000 and another for Granada EUR 6 000. What would you do, ladies and gentlemen? You wouldn't allow it. That is why I am going to apologize, but I, who am recent in politics, do not understand how you have consented to the same discrimination against our State Security Forces and Bodies for more than thirty years, because you would not allow it in your cases. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that Spanish society is in debt to our State Security Forces and Bodies, to our Civil Guard and to our National Police. Our society is and this House is, because if there is one thing that is undeniable, it is that it is our agents who have fought in the first line of fire against the jacks that have put our democracy at risk in their most recent history. I can't stop, for lack of time, in all the examples I could put to you in order to believe this extreme. I'm just going to stop at the two most paradigmatic cases. It is to our State Security Forces and Bodies that we owe precisely the defeat of the terrorist organization ETA, and I am glad that you are present, Mr Iñarritu. [[Give it up.]] We owe it to them, always in coordination and under the mandate of our judiciary. I say this because my insides are upset when I hear in this House that certain politicians refer to our agents as systematic torturers, as repressive and oppressive forces of the peoples that make up our great Spanish nation. I can only say that it is no coincidence that these expressions are always spoken by the same people, who hate Spain and who have always seen our agents fight in the front line for the rule of law. But today, in this intervention, where we do nothing but honor our State Security Forces and Bodies and dignify their work through a just and legitimate equal pay, I ask you to keep certain images in your retina. I cannot mention all the cases; you know that the terrorist organization ETA committed more than 3 000 attacks, which has 854 fatalities and more than 7 000 non-lethal victims. But I can mention the attack, of which last week we commemorated twenty-nine years, which was committed by the commando Barcelona in the headquarters of the Civil Guard of Vich. [[Shows a photograph of the attack.]] Oppressive and repressive forces, ladies and gentlemen? Our fallen heroes. [[Applauds.-Shows another photograph of the attack.]] Is this what we bleached, ladies and gentlemen? That is what we whitewash when we distance ourselves, in an unjust way, from the heirs of a terrorist organization who today refuse to condemn the attacks that continue to be committed against leaders in the Basque Country, such as that of the Madam President, Mrs Idoia Mendia. Only in the Intxaurrondo barracks of San Sebastián did we lose a hundred agents of the Civil Guard. Likewise, our State Security Forces and Bodies are the ones who have been on the front line when the biggest attack on our democracy has been committed in recent history by a coup d'état in Catalonia in October 2017. They are the ones to whom the People's Party Government sent to defend our rule of law. And it is those same forces and bodies of state security, ladies and gentlemen, who have betrayed the governments of Spain, of one and the other political sign. I say this with total respect to each other, but it is necessary to say it again and to have memory, because I have to remind you to ask you today to sit on the right side of history, a place where you have not been, despite your respective absolute majorities according to what times, in the last thirty years. You have betrayed our State Security Forces and Bodies because, when they gave their lives - in that attack ten people died, five of them children - you were negotiating with the terrorist organization ETA. [[show again the second photograph]] They have betrayed them because they have been expelled from the Basque Country and Catalonia by transferring the competences of Traffic, and now they are negotiating it in Galicia and Navarre. They were expelled when, in the framework of Operation Copernicus, in October 2017, they sent our agents on board the Piolin boat to a mousetrap; and they left them when, later on, in the one known as the trial of the trial, we had to see honorable statements of that glorious corporal first and, precisely, of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, in the face of the cowardice of those who at that time held the political leaders; and then, in the dialogue operation, we had to see an entire Vice President of the Government, at that time under the popular government, saying in the trial of the trial that she learned through the television of police operations. They left them when in Operation Icarus, in September 2019, our minister ate a burger while our agents were sent to a real camp battle without the necessary security measures. [[shows a photograph]] [[Show me another picture.]] These are the Democrats you applaud and allude to. [[It shows several photographs.]] This is our glorious IPU. I have no pictures of their brothers, the GRS, because they were manipulated without being able to intervene, but there are pictures that express the real inequality that they had to live by facing a crowd that destroyed the streets of Barcelona with the permissiveness of the government. [[She keeps showing pictures.]] I ask you to look closely at this photograph; this photograph, in particular, where you can see our IPU agents in front of a camp battle and where you can see that, today, there are more agents guarding the Galapagar palace of our government vice president than in the framework of this Operation Icarus. [[Give it up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today I am launching a message of unity because our votes are not enough to carry forward this proposal for a law, and that is clear. That is why I have to admit that in the struggle for equal pay we must mention a background. And the essential precedent is, without a doubt, the agreement approved by the People's Party on 12 March 2018 with the main unions and associations of the Civil Guard; an agreement that translates into a wage increase, not a wage equalization, and in which very precise obligations were established; specifically in the first and eighth clauses. The background to this agreement, as you are well aware, is in two agreements signed by socialist governments, which were left on wet paper and which failed; one by Minister Corcuera, in 1992; and another, later, by the Minister of the Interior, Antonio Alonso, in 2005, who also failed and who was already talking about wage equality with respect to the Autonomous Police of Catalonia. In both cases wet paper. Compliance with the 2018 agreement was not left to the people's government that had signed it. They lost a motion of censure in an absence battle fought by a purse, and the fulfillment of that agreement has remained in their hands. [[Addressing the socialist bench]] Four essential points had to be met and not in all cases. That is why it is so necessary to propose a law that we bring to this House today, so that you - I repeat - are on the right side of history. The first part of this equalization - and to speak of wage equality necessarily is to speak of Citizens, who have so much fought it - was included in the General Budgets of the State of 2018, the last ones that we have in force and extended and, in fact, it was paid by the Socialist Party and We can already in the government. Likewise, the second stage, corresponding to the exercise 2019, although there we already started with a marketing because, precisely, the subscription was not made in January, but a few days before the general elections of April 2019. With the third stage, in 2020, what has happened is already an absolute indecency announcing the inclusion of the fertilizer in one of the real decrees-laws on the pandemic, on the fight against the epidemic by coronavirus, precisely, as a smokescreen to hide the misery of an unworthy minister of the Interior who, precisely on yesterday's day if he tried to justify the unjustifiable, was appealing to two circumstances; the first, accusing a glorious colonel, Pérez de los Cobos, of being responsible for the filtering of police reports to the media - I will not stop at this point because I will do it next week with him on a face-to-face - the second, accusing citizens of other unworthy ceases that have occurred on the part of the popular government when they were in power and that, of course, we also condemn, as is the cessation of the previous DAO of the Civil Guard, Don Pablo Martín Alonso, although with a much more fine pen, which was at that moment the State carried a political one. We also condemn some and other indignities in the exercise of political leadership. [[Give it up.]] EUR 807 million has been paid out, but that is not wage equalisation. Of course, they have left out the EUR 300 million that were budgeted to encourage re-entry to active service. In the Committee on the Interior we asked for information and were answered on 20 February. Of the 39 applications submitted in 2018, zero has been estimated; of the 17 applications in 2019, zero active re-entry has been estimated, resulting in three hundred million euros not being paid. They have embezzled EUR 120 000, which is the cost of this consultant, to whom they indicated in the second deliverable that it had to be limited to a total amount of EUR 807 million, not allowing it to fulfil its role. And today, this bill cannot be understood without a popular legislative initiative presented by Jusapol after collecting 550 000 signatures, which are the ones that you illegally vetoed in February of this year calling for a budgetary impact that was not true. And, Mrs Lastra, I am not going to tell you that you missed the truth because it is true that you merely reproduced what the government was saying to justify that veto, but that budgeted impact of EUR 1.9 billion was compared to municipal, local police, which is not what is being claimed and is not what we propose in the bill. We want a substantially equalization with the Catalan Autonomous Police and also with the Basque Police, but the calculations that we want to know and that will be the subject of the audit were with respect to the Catalan Autonomous Police. And in the face of this frustration of dreams, inculcating the doctrine of the Constitutional Court issued in 2018, precisely on the occasion of an appeal by the Socialist Party against identical totalitarian actions that were exercised in the past by the People's Party, the next day - twenty-four hours later - this parliamentary group fulfilled and endorsed that popular legislative initiative in the bill whose confidence today we ask them to give us to take forward their consideration. It is not our law, it is the law of civil society, it is the law of the people, it is the law of Jusapol, it is the law of the People's Party, but it is also the law of Citizens and Podemos, because we have incorporated in the text the amendments that they recorded when they voted in favour of taking into consideration two years ago this same popular legislative initiative. I conclude, Madam President. I rise to this rostrum being aware that it will not come forward because the respective spokespersons have already announced to me that we do not have enough votes, but I rise because today we had to tell certain truths. Above all, the greatest of them, is that today we are doing what really justifies the existence of VOX: giving voice to the general interest, to the Spanish and to Spain. Today we can only do that, which is not a small thing, out of coherence, being the third political force, but I want to send an absolute message of hope to our agents, because today we give them voice, but we will come to make the decisions, and at that time we will be consistent and comply with their just and legitimate demands. If you build an army of a hundred lions and your leader is a dog, the lions will die like a dog, but if you arm an army of a hundred dogs and your leader is a lion, all the dogs will fight like lions, and that's what we do. Don't give up. Strength and honor. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Mr Sayas López has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u72	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that the Government's lack of respect for the State Security Forces and Bodies is evident by seeing the entire blue bench empty; that is the contempt this Government has for our security forces; that is the appreciation it has for its work and for its work. [[Give it up.]] Perhaps what is happening is better than the fact that Mr Marlaska is here today; perhaps he is resigning and is the best favor he can do to the security forces. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] As you know, Navarra is a community in which the Foral Police - which is the Police of our community, the Autonomous Police of Navarra -, which carries out a magnificent work and has a great professionalism, carries out its work in a model of coexistence with the Civil Guard, with the National Police and with the municipal police. This model of coexistence has been traditionally and historically attacked by nationalism. So you will remember how Mr. Sánchez's investiture session produced the pact with the PNV so that the Civil Guard would disappear from Navarre. That is the model of nationalism. Nationalism wants to eradicate from our community everything that smells like Spain and, therefore, bothers the Civil Guard or bothers the National Police. However, we are very grateful to the Civil Guard and the National Police, as we are to the Foral Police and, of course, also to the municipal police, because throughout the most difficult moments in the history of our community they have been there protecting our freedom, our security and our life and, moreover, they have done so many times risking and exposing theirs. Thanks to the work of the Civil Guard and the National Police, together with the outlaw police and municipal police, we have been able to eradicate the totalitarian fascism of an ETA terrorist gang; without their help we would not have been able to defend our positions freely. Many who sit on the left today and others who do not sit on the left have been able to be free and have been able to do politics, thanks to the task of the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Foral Police and the municipal police. That's why I think it's fair to recognize that job, that sacrifice and that dignity for so many years. I believe that the same work must have the same salary; it is a historical demand, it is a demand for justice. We're late, but by late, the sooner we do it, the better, because there's no argument that for the same job you can't have the same salary. Moreover, if there is a time to recognize the work of these police forces, it is now, at a time when the Government has understood that the Civil Guard is not to protect the Spaniards, it is not to serve Spain but to serve the Government. And that is to attack the honesty and independence of a body that has always been at the service of Spain, but above all at the service of the Constitution and the rest of the laws. Look, I didn't vote for them - I don't think it reveals anything they don't know - but I think there are a lot of people who believed that the new policy was coming to defend honesty, come to defend transparency, come to defend the Spaniards, to defend the rule of law, the separation of powers, and then they found that the government that told them that it was going to clean up, because it has a lot of mud; that when it said that it was coming to regenerate, because there are a lot of things that smell like corruption; and those who said that they were going to face it, because they don't get red, not a bit, when they lie to all the Spaniards. And, of course, it has been seen that the new policy was to have a minister like Mr Ábalos, who acts as host of a Venezuelan dictatorship and nothing happens; that the new policy was to have a minister of equality who says one thing off the record, and to which he doesn't mind exposing the security of all the Spaniards, to whom he lies when they put a camera in front of him, he admits, and nothing happens; that the new policy should be to have a president of the government or a Socialist Group who agrees with Bildu here, in this Chamber, a change in labor reform and says to them: Don't tell, don't tell, don't tell, don't go to find out. That transparency should be the new normality and, then, all those left-wing people who voted for them by genuinely believing in the public, in the dignity of the public, today must be ashamed of having a government that assumes no responsibility. [[Give it up.]] Because if you act with this lack of transparency, if you lie to the Spaniards face to face, if you treat people as if they were a child who is convinced with a candy, if you really try to submit a rule of law believing with prepotence that the Civil Guard has to act on the orders of a minister when acting as a judicial police, it is not a question to resign, then why resign in this country? Why are you resigning in Spain? Where is the respect for the public? I believe that those who have made the most of the public, those who most defend what is of all, must have a special moral requirement to defend what should be no longer a thing of defence of the public, but of ethics and morals, which is that in politics one cannot lie. And we have a Minister of the Interior who has repeatedly lied and therefore cannot be a minute longer in his position. So equalization, yes; minister, no. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u73	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u74	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the principle of equality is included in the Constitution from a variety of perspectives, including article 14, which reflects the so-called principle of equality in law and before the law. It comes to establish, which is very important for the same legislator, that equal situations of fact apply equally and that differences in treatment need adequate justification to explain all differences. Thus, according to the Constitutional Court, the principle of equality of article 14 prevents the rules from establishing unreasonable or arbitrary differences between persons subject to the same legislator. This is why it is not a valid measure to prosecute the differences that can be observed between different legislative areas, such as these General Courts and the Parliaments of the Autonomous Communities, according to judgment 319/1993. On the other hand, it is also true that the same Constitution contains another area with regard to the principle of equality through constitutional rules which confer upon the State powers of bases or which limit the divergences resulting from the exercise by the autonomous communities of their powers. This is the case, for example, with the Basic Statute of the Public Employee or with the establishment, where appropriate, of basic conditions guaranteeing the equality of all persons in the exercise of their rights and the fulfilment of their obligations. But this power of the State in no way can suppose, according to the Constitutional Court, that the identity of rights and duties is a monolithic uniformity of order, since the legislative power of the autonomous communities in our compound order makes it possible for the legal position of citizens in the different parts of the territory of the State to be different. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court draws a conclusion from this affirmation of principle, which is that divergences between rules emanating from different legislative powers cannot give rise in constitutional terms to a claim of equality, because if that were the case, it would lose the identity of the principle of equality that it plays within a legal system, of the same law, and give rise to a prosecution of the normative diversity of the State's autonomy with criteria irreconcilable with the same diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, all this reminder of the scope and meaning of the various manifestations of the principle of equality in the Constitution is not motivated by a pedagogical desire of those who speak to them, but rather to show the distortion and manipulation of this fundamental principle by the authors of the proposed law, in order to demand a wage equalization which, if not, would, according to their interpretation, constitute a flagrant violation of this constitutional principle. Already coming down to the differences between the different legal regimes existing on public employees, the Constitutional Court has been reluctant to consider them contrary to the principle of equality, because its very doctrine makes it difficult to establish comparisons between staff employed from different institutions and even dependent on the same institution if they are not subject to the same legal status, as would be the case with the Civil Guard and the National Police. This is precisely what happens with the subjective comparisons contemplated in the proposed law. We are faced with external comparisons or with different legal regimes that want to be based on constitutional and ordinary doctrine that has been applied only for internal comparisons, that is, within the organizational structure of the same employer and with respect to a common statutory regime. Even the European regulation and case law cited in the explanatory memorandum of the initiative to justify it is erroneously brought forward. It examines whether workers with the same qualifications and tasks and the same workplace should be remunerated in the same way - in that case they were three-years - outside their contract type, i.e. based again on internal comparisons within the same employer, rather than external comparisons between workers from different employers. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be said that differences in the retributive legal regime between the State Security Forces and those of the autonomous communities or local entities are in violation of the principle of constitutionally preserved equality, because the validity of the term of comparison in respect of which inequality is published is constitutionally incorrect. A judgment of this nature requires the identity of the conditions of the jobs that are comparable - in particular, the technical difficulty of education, training and tasks - and, moreover, cannot be required to equate - in constitutional terms, it is clear - arguing that, if it does not occur, the constitutional order of equality would be violated, when we are faced with a clear difference of legal regime: those of the National Police, the Civil Guard and each of the autonomous polices, with different employers, with different competition frameworks - such as that of the self-organization of each of the institutions and the legal status of their own officials, that is, subject to the basic remuneration regime, basic salary and seniority, or to the limits applicable to the growth of the salaries of staff to the public service under article 149.1.13.a - and with differentiated polices; and in the case of the Basque Country, with an integral police of its own, for the protection of persons and property and the maintenance of public order, under the historical rights recognized in the first additional provision of the Constitution. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, neither will we support your initiative today, because your argument, in order to sustain itself, does not respond to something ontologically solid and univocal, but, on the contrary, it is a construction of conscience, both individual and collective, consisting of making the false constitutionally realistic. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a deliberate distortion of a constitutional reality, which manipulates beliefs and emotions in order to influence public opinion and social and police sectors. And that is called post-truth, and that is the foundation of his proposition: a constitutional post-truth. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As every time I intervened during this pandemic, I would like to remind all the people who have died because of the coronavirus and accompany the thousands of families - we still don't know how many - who have lost a loved one in the worst possible conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have, two and a half months later, a mourning that should have started from the first victim of this virus. Since there can be no other way, I want to continue to pay a very special tribute to our health professionals, whose sacrifice has been and is infinite, and I want to congratulate them on the most deserved Princess Prize of Asturias. Another group of heroes that have left many, too many behind, are our State Security Forces and Bodies, prison officials, army, private security, local police, civil protection and the rest of the workers considered essential. The tributes that Citizens, which my parliamentary group wants for them, are improvements in working conditions. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law of the VOX Parliamentary Group on equal pay between the State Security Forces and Corpses and the autonomous police. It is an initiative that would not be necessary if the government had fully complied with the agreement, the commitment that Citizens made to the People's Party for the 2018 budgets. I thank your honor, Mrs Olona, for recognizing you this way. In this agreement, three tranches of wage improvements were agreed for the State Security Forces and the establishment of a check and assurance table for compliance with this equality. That was the deal, a good deal, serious, reliable and possible. See if the budgets that we approved at that time were good too, which are still in force, despite Mr Sánchez. Our agents play their lives to defend our health and our freedoms and they have to endure and hear that wage equalization cannot be paid while the government continues to create structures and put friends. The Government, as everyone knows, failed to meet the excuses of a bad payer and the amounts committed were dwindling. In addition, in the first two sections that have been satisfied, thousands of compañeros in second activity and retirees have been left behind, which, moreover, continue with double discrimination: first, with regard to its compañeros, and then, with regard to the autonomous police. What was to be avoided by the agreement, the Government has made it grow. Last week Marlaska, whom I believe there are no friends left in the National Police and much less in the Civil Guard, announced the sudden and immediate collection, by royal decree, of the third tranche of the salary equalization agreement. Something that was impossible in February, according to him himself, today is practically a fact. Ladies and gentlemen, a book smoke curtain, this is what. Marlaska had just ceased Colonel Pérez de los Cobos after refusing to comply with the law - I repeat, he refused to comply with the law - and he also accompanied to the exit door the operational deputy director and the one who had to succeed by escalphon. I don't know if he used Vice President Iglesias' "closure when he left." Shortly before, the Socialist Party and its United Nations partners Podemos had vetoed in the Bureau the popular legislative initiative of equality, which also signed more than half a million Spaniards and which Citizens defended in that House. You, gentlemen of the government, give prizes to the protera of Bildu and punishment to the Civil Guard, in addition to the Civil Guard that complies with the law. For this reason, half of Spain is asking for Marlaska's resignation and practically the other half too; we ask for it in this act. Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Sánchez believes that he can double the will of the State Security Forces and Corpses to do what interests him, then he knows neither the National Police nor the Civil Guard. And if Mr. Marlaska thinks he's gonna be able to shut the bodies up by pulling this third stretch out of the joke, it's that he has no idea of the ministry he's running. Nor has the proposing group, I have to say, always been 100 percent to end this historical injustice, even though now they come with the breast strokes. There was a royal decree in which VOX was able to act and start again the procedures to introduce this initiative, but, to my surprise - I have to confess - and that of the police and the civilian guards, it did not. It seems to me that what happens is that, if you can't hang the medal, you prefer there to be no match, no matter what the consequences. Citizens care more about what they do than who. We know perfectly well that the important thing is that this historical injustice is over now and we will support any measure aimed at ending it, be it ours or any other group. This is the responsible and, above all, useful attitude of my parliamentary group, that of Citizens. I have to say that the defense of the State Security Forces and Corps is and has always been in Citizens' DNA. Proof of this is my presence in this Chamber, so I will be eternally grateful to my parliamentary group. The uniform that I have in my closet and that my companions wear every day has on his shoulder a flag, a flag that represents a broad, diverse community and that needs to be defended from multiple threats. The flag that I have worn and will wear in the uniform has no owner and no ideology, and against those threats that I have told you is against those that my comrades fight the twenty-four hours of the day, the seven days of the week, the 365 days of the year, 366 if it is a leap. That is why I must also tell you, gentlemen of VOX, that it is very good to bring here a proposal for equal pay - we are pleased - but stop using the police and the Civil Guard politically as a bold weapon, because it is a terrible mistake. They, like me and you, also swore to protect and abide by the Constitution and protect citizens, vote what they vote for. It is a tremendous irresponsibility that you try to confront citizens with the State Security Forces and Bodies. Any National Police or Civil Guard can clearly identify an illegal order and none will risk following it; look at Mr. Pérez de los Cobos. Stop spreading bulwarks and lies against our agents, saying that they arrest people for carrying flags of Spain or that they pursue the caceroladas against the government; that's a lie and they know it. Do not attack those who protect us, tell your own. And to Bildu - who has not yet intervened and who does not condemn terrorism etarra, although violence in the United States hurts so much - to Esquerra and the other haters or haters of authority I say to you: Long live the Civil Guard and live the National Police! You're the one who protects you, too. And I also say unto them, Long live the king! Having said that, we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration because it is fair. We will try to improve it in the future with the corresponding amendments. We know he's not going out. I want to end by saying that we are not going to surrender, in Citizens we have never done it - there is Miguel Gutiérrez, who can say it clearly - and we are not going to do it. I make Mr Sayas's sentence: equality yes, minister no. Thank you. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u77	Thank you, Mr. Cambronero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u78	Madam President, there must be some mistake. We decided not to intervene at this point in order not to give any chance to fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u79	Excuse me. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u80	Good morning. I want to start this intervention, as it cannot be otherwise, showing my solidarity with the dead, with the convalescents for this pandemic and with their families; with thanks to the health workers and all the workers and people who have cared for us, and again showing confidence in our people, because we are getting out of this situation and, as we have said here several times, everything will go well. In these times of high confrontation, the proposal for equal pay between the police forces of the Central State Administration and the autonomous police is perhaps one of the few issues that has prompted a high level of agreement between the various political formations and thus allows a great political agreement to improve the working conditions of our public servants. It is fair to apply strictly the principle of: equal pay for equal work; it is an obligation of the State Administration to eliminate any wage discrimination among public servants, but instead of working to reach a broad agreement, the ultra-right makes this matter a new ground for confrontation with this proposed law. To date, the objective of this bill is achieved, it is unnecessary: an unprecedented wage improvement has been achieved in the State Security Forces and Bodies, a 20% increase over 2017 wages in less than three years! Between October 2018 and the end of 2020: EUR 807 million in total earmarked for both specific singular complement and productivity; a huge collective effort in recognition of the professionals of the State Security Forces and Bodies, and without having been able to pass the Budgets Act in 2019 or 2020 and in an economic context of immense growth of public spending due to the health and social emergency due to the COVID-19. The first two pay increments for equal pay became effective in October 2018 and in April 2019, in both cases with retroactive effects on 1 January of each year - an amount of EUR 560 million - and the third pay increment has been approved by the Council of Ministers of 26 May; a smoke curtain - I have just heard here - somewhat expensive, a smoke curtain of EUR 247 million nothing more and nothing less. In other words, it concludes the equalisation process started in 2018, which means an average wage increase of 20% for national police and civilian guards. What does that mean? It means between EUR 560 and EUR 720 gross per month in 2020 compared to 2017. That is why there is no justification for us to be debating this bill today. First we are flooded with fake news and now VOX inaugurates with this proposal the era of fake laws; a fake law, because wage equality is already a reality, thanks to the economic effort made by the government that emerged from the censorship motion of 2018 and by this coalition government, and we congratulate ourselves on this labor conquest that would not have been possible without the support of the police unions and the associations of the Civil Guard. Of course, when it comes to supporting job demands, we can teach the right lessons to the United Nations. The demand for the equal pay of the State Security Forces and Corpses is an old claim defended in isolation for too many years by the political left - especially for years, by the United Left - to which no Government had responded. Finally, in March 2018, the People's Party in Government accepted the proposal of the associations and unions, but the People's Party government did not take any steps to comply with the agreement, so Jusapol had to present the People's Legislative Initiative and We Can vote in favour of its consideration. At the same time, we have worked for more than two years to achieve equal pay through GNP, through amendments to the General State Budgets and with the proposal to set up a committee on the new police model. The ILP procedure fell at the end of the XII Legislature and was again presented in the current Legislature, in December 2019, but was no longer necessary, because in October 2018 the first salary equalisation tranche was approved, in April 2019, the second, and in May 2020 the third, after intense previous work, was approved, with amendments in the General Budgets of the State of 2018 and 2017; more than 500 million additional euros were included in the General Budgets of 2018 on a proposal from a multitude of parliamentary groups. Of course, the wage increase, of course, is much higher than the wage increases of other officials, and it is fair, because it is to correct discrimination. When the VOX Parliamentary Group presents this ILP, it is doing a weak favor to the police unions, because it appropriates a claim that has been defended by the majority of parliamentary groups and, in addition, it does so opportunistically, breaks the unity of the political forces and creates a problem where it does not exist. On the other hand, this proposal uses a highly reckless legal technique, because it gives the autonomous communities of Catalonia, Basque Country and Navarre the power to determine the salary of public servants in the service of the Central Administration of the State, that is, they propose an irresponsible assignment or abandonment of the political sovereignty of the State, of the Central Administration, to the autonomous communities. If Navarra comes up with the idea of raising the salary to 1,000 police officers, that means that the Central State Administration has to approve a budget line one hundred and fifty times larger. That is what they are proposing: a renunciation of the competences of the State. And, look, today the applause has moved from the balconies to the outpatient doors, because there are many other public administration professionals who are poorly paid, many more. [[Give it up.]] We have already achieved the goal of equal pay of the State Security Forces and Corpses, summarise and we are going to work. I make a proposal to you: let us all work together to achieve the equal pay of health workers, justice workers and other workers of the Ministry of the Interior, such as prison workers, whom no one talks about, because that has been done by the right-wing side of this country in eight years of government and have never done so. This is what should never have happened. They have appropriated a just claim in order to provoke a confrontation between Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u81	Mr. Santiago, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u82	And we tell the State Security Forces and Corps not to be used politically by any force, by any force, nor by VOX. Withdraw this proposal and we all subscribe to a statement welcoming the achievement of the objective. Let's stick to the truth and the reality. Today more than ever, a lot of health to everyone. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u83	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mateu Istúriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u84	With all due respect, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Our most affectionate greeting goes also to the members of the State Security Forces and Corpses, who are surely seeing this interesting debate, in which some have already been portrayed in their usual style of little affection and support for the State Security Forces and Corpses, but in which they will again see the commitment of the People's Party to wage equality. Ladies and gentlemen, how great is democracy, which allows the friends of the murderers of the ages to sit in this Chamber - and I am referring specifically to the Bildu Parliamentary Group - which so many lives sawn and so many mutilations caused in members of the State Security Forces and Bodies. [[Give it up.]] What a shame that you have never had the kindness to condemn your misdeeds, that is, ladies and gentlemen, incredible, you have condemned the murder of African-American citizen George Floyd at the hands of the police in Minnesota, United States of America. In case there is any doubt and any of your gentlemen have not listened well to what I have said, I tell you again that ETA was a band of terrorists, who murdered and extorted. Therefore, those linked to ETA are terrorists. As a national deputy and representative of the Spanish people and their sovereignty and because of my oath to keep and keep the Constitution as a fundamental rule of the State, I will respect them democratically, but I personally hate them. Another parliamentary group, the United Nations We can, today government partners, also dedicate itself to being original, playing with peacekeepers like Otegi, taking pictures; they love how they beat the police and even get very happy and, of course, instead of meeting with the families of the people who have been murdered by the terrorist band ETA, they meet with the people who have beaten the members of the State Security Forces and Bodies. That, without forgetting, of course, the current Government, that with these pacts that it is making of approaching of the prisoners etarra to the prisons of the Basque Country, with those permissions that are granted to family members to go to see them to prisons outside of the Basque territory, has drawn a rather dark and black panorama of affection, affection and commitment with the Forces et Corpses de Seguridad del Estado. It's amazing. Members of the State Security Forces and Corpses, did you, during the pandemic, not grant any permission to go to sleep in your usual residences when the destination was outside your territory? Well, no. Too bad, my God! Everyone there with their conscience, because the People's Party has it very calm and with these issues, with the affection and treatment given to members of the Civil Guard and the Police, of course, sleeps very calmly. The history of equal pay has already been discussed. Thirty years have been demanding the State Security Forces and Corpses that fair and real equality, and it had to be a party, to which none of the previous speakers mentioned, the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, which, when Mariano Rajoy arrived at the Government of Spain, immediately took this issue as a personal matter. And Mr.Zoido, then Minister of the Interior, was instructed to quickly - according to the main associations and unions of Police and Civil Guard - get to work and, after a frantic tour, a historic agreement was approved, on March 12, 2018. And here we are witnessing a total incongruity: an ILP backed by more than 550 000 signatures and presented by Jusapol was admitted in 2018 by the same government that is now vetoing that initiative. Obviously, these inconsistencies must be highlighted. The arguments presented by the People's Parliamentary Group at the time, in the consideration of the ILP, in 2018 - because then, because of the vicissitudes that have occurred since the dissolution of the Chambers, the constitution of the Chambers, etc., it was again presented -, in the plenary, where it was approved by a majority, are perfectly valid for the initiative that we are working on today. We can say - because nobody has really talked about the technical issues of this bill - that it is a bill that has errors of legal technique - recognized at the time by Jusapol - that it does not definitively close the labour discrimination of police and civilian guards, because it forces a permanent and continuous wage escalation that would remain in the hands of the negotiations and decisions of the autonomous police. However, the reference to the specific complements of the local police, which, ladies and gentlemen, is also inconsistent with the provisions of the explanatory memorandum: equal work, equal pay, is excluded from the budget. The basis of the proposal of this ILP, ladies and gentlemen - all those who have spoken have known it - is Article 3, which defines what it is - those who are officials we understand clearly - a specific complement. Ladies and gentlemen, the basis for achieving wage equality lies in full compliance with the 2018 agreement, which the current government has not complied with in its entirety. There are three gaps: the first, which has not provided the 100 million euros per year to encourage those who are in reserve or in second activity to join; the second, that the first clause is subject to judicial suspicion, because there has been pressure for the consultancy to elaborate what the Government - which has commissioned this study - finally decides, and the third, that in the eighth clause, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of the Interior has not promoted the necessary legislative measures to ensure that in the future there is no wage dysfunction among police officers performing the same functions. Minister Grande-Marlaska - I don't know where you are, Mrs Lastra, please let him know what I'm going to tell you - submit a bill, stop dynamitating the separation of powers and don't interfere with the performance that Judge No. 51 of Madrid is having. It seems a lie that you don't remember, when you were still a good judge, your involvement in the Faisán case. Then he ordered what he now censors. And don't forget the disarticulation of the Vizcaya command, in which two illustrious colonels of the Civil Guard participated; I mean Colonel Pérez de los Cobos and another colonel also defended, as was Colonel Sánchez Corbí. It is disappointing, Mr. Grande-Marlaska, and we again ask for your resignation. What is our position on this bill? Obviously, we have shown it with eagerness, it cannot be other than the affirmative because there has been no other political group with more commitment on the issue of the equalization of wages of our dear Forces and State Security Bodies. So, whether this bill is taken into consideration or not, we have our own bill that we have drafted on the basis of point 8 of the March 2018 agreement. Therefore, if that proposal is accepted, we will hang our proposals in the legal text. That it's not accepted? We are fully prepared to present our own draft law, which will definitively establish equal pay and working conditions for all police officers, both the Civil Guard and the Autonomous Police and the National Police, and with the established qualifications. And I'm finishing up. If I may, I would like to use a phrase that I liked very much about yesterday's speech when he said: 'This government wants us to be submissive and silent, forget it'. The People's Party is not going to allow the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Spaniards to be curtailed and less will they cut our tongue in defense of the interests of our State Security Forces and Bodies. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u85	Thank you, Mr. Mateu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u86	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin in the same way that other speakers have begun, transferring our sympathy and sympathy to family members and also - taking advantage of the purpose of this proposal - transferring it to all the public servants of the Ministry of the Interior. I would also like to convey the thanks of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to all those who have been at the forefront of the fight against this pandemic, paying particular attention to those who are dedicated to our security: to the State Security Forces and Corpses, to the local and autonomous police, to prison officials, to forest workers, to private security workers and to those who are dedicated to civil protection. Thank you all very much. [[Give it up.]] Go ahead with the support of this parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to a public servant who has decided to make profound changes in the Ministry of the Interior; a team that promotes policies to protect women victims of gender-based violence; a team that wants to promote equality within the Police and the Civil Guard to combat human trafficking mafias, to combat terrorism, cybercrime or organized crime. Thank you very much, Mr. Marlaska. [[Give it up.]] The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is very difficult for you to discuss it in reasonable terms. I say this because when one appeals to emotion and especially when one tries to appropriate State institutions, such as the Police or the Civil Guard, we fall into a very big mistake, Mrs Olona, very big. Then I will propose to you two exercises of imagination - to follow your line - to see if I can understand what your mental process is to bring here today this proposition of law, that the only thing you do - as the previous intervener of Podemos said - is to face at a time when we must unite. But I'll get to that point, Mrs. Olona. The Socialist Party and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have for years been defending the equal pay of police and civilian guards, but not only the equalization but also the defence of their labour rights, and also being in coordination and collaboration with trade unions and associations. We do not do trade union policy, we do not want to use trade unions and associations at all. We advocate here in Congress proposals that affect the substance and functioning of the State Security Forces and Bodies. [[Give it up.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, what is the sense of state for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The sense of state for the Socialist Parliamentary Group is to adopt and endorse an agreement signed by a previous Government and to comply with it in its terms, in the same terms. That's a sense of state, that's not politicizing the State Security Forces and Bodies, no, Mrs. Olona, it's not; that's a sense of state, which you lack. [[Give it up.]] When this Government arrived at the Ministry of the Interior there was not a single record of the meetings held by the Government of the People's Party with trade unions and associations, there was no legal report on the agreement, nor was there a single euro reserved in the Ministry of Finance dedicated to equality; zero, there was nothing. By the way, Mr. Gutierrez, welcome back to Congress. I remember once an intervention he had with Mr Zoido when he was sitting in the blue bank - and I also say this to Mr Cambronero because perhaps they should read the minutes and his speeches -; I remember that Mr Gutiérrez told Mr Zoido, very clear: 500, 500, 500, that is the price of equalisation; if there is no EUR 1.5 billion we will not approve his budget. Check and tell me if after having approved the budget there were 1.5 billion euros. There was not a single euro, Mr Gutiérrez, they were deceived. [[Give it up.]] Look, in this period of time, over the past two years, the State Security Forces and Corpses have had a 20% increase in their salaries, the last part of the equalization has been completed and there is a proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Senate to set up a committee of study - in the Senate because it is the Territorial Chamber - so that we can discuss how the legal problems posed by such a proposal can be solved. An infrastructure plan with EUR 600 million has been agreed to improve headquarters and police stations and a public job offer of more than 5 000 places has been created. Tell me if this isn't supporting our security forces and bodies. I will tell you what it is not to support the Security Forces and Bodies: to bring here, to public debate, in this Congress, at a time of economic, political and social crisis, a proposal for a wage increase only for a collective, when there are other collectives who, in solidarity, have contributed their work in this crisis. I will tell you the two exercises of imagination, Mrs Olona: the first of them is that you tell the truth; that would be the first, and important, that we could all do that exercise of imagination. But the second one may cost you a little more: imagine that a political group - I don't know, for example, VOX - when in February a real decree is brought to this House to approve the salary increase of public officials, that same political group that today approves a salary increase of a collective within public workers, does not support the increase. Do you tell me if that's congruent or incongruent? I believe that it is clearly incongruent that you said in February that you did not support a rise in public wages and that today, precisely today, you are bringing this proposal here. [[Give it up.]] I'll make you another little point. Since other colleagues who have preceded me will certainly do so and have done so better than I to point out the legal arguments, I will not stop at it, but I will stop at the economic argument that you give to sustain a salary increase that affects hundreds of thousands of public workers. I'm going to read it in half-coiled. The economic argument, the justification is - and I open quotes -: Economic recovery. That's all his argument. Following that simple argument, I will tell you that if there is no economic growth because there is a crisis, that justification obviously falls. Tell me whether, at a time of crisis like this, that proposal and that economic justification can continue to have protection in order to continue discussing this proposal. Finally - I am running out of time - beyond all these issues, I will remind you of some articles of the Constitution that you cite in your proposal to justify it. You quote 10.1, 9.2, 40 and 39.1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u87	Mr. Serrada, you'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u88	Right away, Madam President. If you truly believed in these principles and articles that underpin this bill and applied them, I have no doubt that you would have supported all the royal decrees that have been brought into this House and I am sure that we would have also saved ourselves from hearing some statements or reading some tweets that you have been hanging up lately. They might even have to reformulate the idea of their party. Gentlemen, advice I see I don't have for myself. Thank you very much. [[Give it up.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. Discussions on all international conventions. Voting on the proposal for a full amendment by the VOX Parliamentary Group to the International Agreement on Taxation and Protection of Financial Interests between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning Gibraltar, done ad referendum in Madrid and London on 4 March 2019. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 85 plus 261 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 34 plus 104 telematics votes, 138; against, 48 plus 153 telematics votes, 201; abstentions, 3 plus 4 telematics votes, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u91	The proposal with an amendment in mind is rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u92	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund submitted by the parliamentary groups Citizens, VOX and Popular in Congress to the bill on the tax on certain digital services. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 85 plus 261 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36 plus 112 telematics votes, 148; against, 49 plus 149 telematics votes, 198.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u93	The amendments are rejected in their entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u94	Proposal for a law of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the effective equality and equal pay of the State Security Forces and Bodies with respect to the autonomous police. The vote will begin. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: 84 plus 261 telematics votes, 345; 37 plus 115 telematics votes, 152; 46 plus 146 telematics votes, 192; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-04-CD200604.u95	The proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was one and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
