ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u2	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, how do you appreciate the situation the Spaniards are going through?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u4	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u5	Thank you, Madam President. The situation of the Spaniards is a consequence of an unprecedented pandemic in the history of humanity over the last hundred years. It is clear that they have faced with resistance, with social discipline and with a moral of victory an unprecedented pandemic and I believe that, thanks to their efforts, we have managed to contain the virus during all these months. At the parliamentary level, Your Honor, thanks to the parliamentary majority of this Congress we have been able to bring forward a state of alarm that has been effective in the fight against the pandemic, and also thanks to the responsibility of that parliamentary majority we have compensated for the irresponsibility of your group and the far right in approving that state of alarm. And at European level, Your Honor, what we have done has been to achieve a great deal of agreement, a historic agreement for the economic recovery of our country, not only to respond to the crisis of COVID, but also to address the transformations that the country needs and has ahead. [[applause]] I will also tell you one thing, Your Honor, during these days I have been very attentive to what was said in Spain, I have heard your appeals, your statements; you have done nothing at all to hold your shoulder, to help the Government of Spain in defending our country's legitimate interests in the negotiations in Brussels. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u7	In short, ladies and gentlemen, the work has been exhausting, the negotiations have been exhausting, the result has been extraordinary and, Mr Casado, your contribution to this great European and Spanish collective achievement, do you know what it has been? Nonexistent. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u8	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u9	A little more humility, Mr Sánchez, that you need to do the rumba with your own to save the situation. Spain is going through a brutal crisis, with four million unemployed and already with a hundred outbreaks of the virus that has caused the death of 40,000 compatriots. In the face of its inaction against the rebounds, we have been saying for weeks that it implements the legislation in force in order to have an effective coordinated response without having to resort again to the state of alarm. And in the face of its passiveness in the face of the recession, we have been saying for months that it should put in place a national reform plan to lower tax, labour, bureaucratic costs, as other countries do, and to recover employment and social welfare. Fortunately, Europe has come to our aid and, curiously, while you have been the guest of stone in a negotiation in which you have had the curious method of passive listening, three women of the People's Party defended the interests of Spain: Von der Leyen and Merkel in Brussels and Lagarde from Frankfurt. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And despite the fact that its partners continue to attack those countries that can slow down the receipt of funds - by the way, three of them are from the socialist political family, another from the Citizens' family and only one from the popular and green families - it can be seen that they have learned nothing from the defeat of the Eurogroup. You came here a month ago to boast that you would bring a billion and a half of funds unconditionally and you have returned with a full-fledged rescue program without getting a third of the bear's skin, and on top you mount a round of applause. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u11	Look, Mr. Sánchez, Spain is not for auto-bomb ceremonies. [[Rumors]] However, we believe that the agreement is good for Spain because, moreover, it is an amendment to the whole of its government agreement with Podemos, its pacts with the nationalists and Bildu. [[applause.-Protests]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] Now you will have to choose between complying with Europe and complying with your partners, you will have to choose between labor reform or electoral Fridays. What I am telling you is that we are not going to allow the CAP to be cut by 10%, with EUR 600 million less per year for farmers and livestock farmers, who cannot be the pagans of the Community negotiation. For the responsible proposals, we will be able to count on our support, and I say to you that we will vote in favour of those of the Commission for Reconstruction in the field of health and justice, and all this, despite knowing that you in an Italian environment said that you did not want to agree anything with the People's Party. But, look, if it ends like the Pasoc, it will not be by agreeing with us, but by the poor economic management it is doing. [[Rumors]] So, Mr Sánchez, now comply with the Spanish as Europe has complied with Spain; do so, for a change, for once. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u12	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Yesterday we saw, Your Honor, that Adenauer is, that Monnet is, that Schuman is, and, since yesterday, Pablo Casado, as the father of the European Union. [[Laughs.-Applause.-Speaks.]] In any case, Mr Casado, we are finishing the session and we should reflect, Your Honor, we should reflect - you too - on this; we should abandon the sham, we should abandon the provocation, we should abandon the confrontation and, consequently, we should begin to build bridges with the Government and reach agreements, Your Honor, during the next session. You reproached me earlier that it was going to be EUR 500 billion in transfers and that I have brought less to Spain as a result of that agreement. And I will tell you one thing, Your Honor; look, I recognize that this agreement is 95 % satisfactory for our country; it is 100 % satisfactory for the whole of the European Union. I insist on one issue, Your Honor; after listening to you over the last week, after five exhausting days of work, your contribution, Mr. Casado, to this collective achievement that has represented the recovery fund has been a zero percent. [[rumors]] Let him look at it, Your Honor. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]] - THE DEVELOPED FRENCH BALDE DONATION, THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE EVOLUTION OF PANDEMIA AND THE RESPONSE THAT IS GROWING AS MUCH AT NATIONAL LEVEL AS EUROPEAN? [[File number 180/00243]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u14	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u15	Mr Sánchez, tens of thousands of lives - many more than the official records -, hundreds of thousands of jobs and a very complicated scenario with the rebounds, a very complex horizon; we need great agreements like the one that has been lit up at the European Council, but I want to ask you whether on this path that marks Europe you will agree, will undertake the reforms that our country needs or will continue to rely on nationalists and populists who do not believe in Spain or the European project. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u16	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u17	Your Honor, I share with you the concern about the evolution of the pandemic in the world, in Europe and also in Spain. We live in a composite state, the competences in health are in the hands of the autonomous governments - their party is part of some of those autonomous governments - we are coordinating with the autonomous communities precisely the evolution of the contagion in the rebounds, we are also lighting up an unprecedented, historic agreement in the European construction, as we have achieved over these five exhausting days of work at the European Council. [[Rumors]] Yes, it is true, ladies and gentlemen, it is true, do not put yourselves in this way, celebrate it; if yesterday Mr Casado himself also concluded this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u19	I do not know why it is so hard for you to recognize at least that the Spanish Government has achieved great success for this country, which will allow it to transform it over the next six years. Recognize it. [[Applauds]] I share with you, Your Honor, all these concerns, I share with you, indeed, the great historical importance, the significance of the agreement reached at the European Council. And I will tell you one thing, Your Honor, we have achieved this with agreements with the Social Democracy, also with coalition governments with the Greens, with the Liberals and with the People's Party. We've all done it, Your Honor. Look, it's so easy to reach agreements in Europe and it's so difficult, if not impossible, to achieve it here in Spain. With you it may be easier; with the People's Party, impossible, because it is effectively mingling with the far right, as we have seen over the past few weeks. [[Rumors]] I will tell you one thing, Mr Bal, about the health emergency; one, institutional loyalty. We do not confront any autonomous government, unlike how the autonomous governments - some of which are part of their party - have confronted the Spanish government unjustifiably. Secondly, in addition to that institutional loyalty, maximum collaboration, shoulder-lifting, helping the autonomous communities to cope with this pandemic, which is obviously unprecedented in the history of our humanity over the last hundred years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u20	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u21	Yeah, it's a historic deal. The European Union has given us a great opportunity, but now we have to take advantage of it, we have to make decisions. Look, the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party have always gone wrong, late or never to these reforms that Spain really needs, not just cosmetic reforms. That is why we are the champions of Europe in unemployment, in deficit, in public debt or in school failure. With regard to the deficit, all governments have failed to meet precisely this deficit target. With regard to the labour market, the possibility of adapting it to the 21st century and the digital age has always been neglected, only patches have been put on. We have eight ideological counter-reforms in education and the PISA reports tell us that the insertion of our students into the labour market is very bad. In innovation we are far from the European average in R & D+i investment. We need to strengthen and protect our health system and we need more resources, more professionals and much better paid. You have always parked in a drawer the administration reform to place your friends. I am talking to you about the application of these European funds to health, innovation, education, employment, digitalisation, to administrative reforms, which we have to tackle. You have already seen the way, and the way, indeed, you have said, is to agree together liberals, conservatives and social democrats, not populism or radicalism. We have that opportunity, but you have a great responsibility: you have an obligation not to miss this train. So pact with the opposition, pact with the social partners, help the Spaniards, the families, the entrepreneurs and the workers. I ask you to set up a working table to promote these agreements and to prepare sensible public accounts. You will find there Citizens contributing and building, but never on the side of inequality, blackmail and privilege. Make no mistake and take the right path; it owes it to the Spaniards, who are afraid and insecure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u22	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u23	I appreciate the tone, Your Honor. When you talk about reforms, this government has submitted the preliminary draft climate change law, this government has approved the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, this government has adopted a preliminary draft law to amend the education law and its modernization. [[One Member: Four million unemployed]] Yes, we do have an emergency work situation as a result of the health emergency, and fortunately, this government has launched temporary employment regulation files to protect employment and, also, to endorse companies through credit lines. [[Applauds]] Therefore, you will find us on that path, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES YOU THINK OF FOLLOWING THE BILATERAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE STATE AND THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITY OF THE VASCO COUNTRY WITHDRAWING THE CONVOCATION OF THE JOINT ECONOMIC CONCIERT COMMISSION TO ESTABLISH THE DEFICIT AND DEBT LIMITS FOR VASCO ADMINISTRATIONS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00242]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u24	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u25	Mr. President, good morning. Do you intend to continue to obviate the bilateral relationship and delay the call of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert to fix the deficit and debt of the Basque administrations?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u26	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. The Government maintains its road map, which it proposed in the investiture a few months ago. This Government has faced an unprecedented pandemic over the last hundred years and we have done so on the basis of two fundamental issues: the first, the bilateral relationship with the Basque Government and also the multilateral relationship with the rest of the autonomous governments. We have held fourteen conferences of presidents; we have held a bilateral committee with the Basque Government, precisely to launch many of the transfers linked to the Statute of Gernika, and we have also spoken with you to launch and celebrate that joint committee. Therefore, Your Honor, we are following the road map marked in the investiture and, of course, strengthening between the Government of Spain and the Basque Government within the framework of the bilateral relationship. Look, Your Honor, your party and mine are centuries-old parties, and I have always considered it essential for the stability and advancement of our societies to understand between the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, because when we agree Euskadi wins and Spain wins, the Basques win and the Spaniards win. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u28	Mr. Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u29	Of course, with understanding one gains, but understanding means covenants and those covenants have to be fulfilled. You know that outside regimes have a very similar situation to that of the State, unlike the rest of the autonomous communities, and they are directly affected by the fall in collection. The Basque and Navarra institutions must already know what their budgetary and financial margins will be. You know that your Government has a signed commitment with us; an unfulfilled commitment not only to bring together the Joint Committee on Economic Concert - which should have been concluded already under the agreement - but also to agree on the deficit in very explicit terms on the basis of the drop in revenue. [[shows a document]] To this end, both the Basque Government and the outlaws have offered them all the details that we have at our disposal and are working in their power. Even so, they still do not accept it and do not convene the joint committee. We are not asking them for money, so that it is clear to the whole world; we are simply asking them to leave us in debt to deal with the crisis, and that money will be paid by the Basque institutions and the out-of-ship institutions, in case they are also agreed with them. We're not asking for money or a transfer from the state. It is an urgent and serious matter, Mr President. It has nothing to do with the European agreement or the short-term debt, it is something else. And of course understanding is important, but what you can't think is that you're going to have budgets while others leave us in albis and we can't count on the data to go and prepare, precisely, that whole budgetary path. Therefore, Mr President, if you want to count on us - and of course we have policy as an understanding, but also as a compliance - you already convene the joint committee and agree to the authorization in the terms agreed in our agreement. And in the meantime, don't bother to knock on our door to look for more agreements; we will first fulfill what we are already committed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u30	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u31	Thank you, Madam President. The joint committee is going to be held, Your Honor, no doubt about it, but I also think it is important to highlight those issues on which we have advanced during these very intense months as a result of the pandemic. On 4 February, the first meeting between the Government of Spain and the Government of Euskadi was held to reactivate the outstanding transfers. On 20 February a transfer schedule was agreed and on 25 June three very important agreements were signed that you have been demanding over the past few years: one, the transfer of functions and services on health benefits from school insurance; two, pre-retirement aid for workers affected by collective redundancies; and three, the enforcement of State legislation on pharmaceutical products. Secondly, during the state of alarm, we committed ourselves to guaranteeing Euskadi the 2020 financial year with a deficit percentage on GDP equivalent to the projected decrease in collection by the outlaws in the historical territories and, also, to allowing the use of the 2019 budget surplus. The Foreign Ministers, Your Honor, have indeed made their calculations and the Government of Spain also has its own, and we are now negotiating precisely what this agreement can be. Your Honor, this government is doing everything it can to ensure that its autonomous community is not strained as a result of the fall in public revenues. There is the non-refundable fund of EUR 16 billion. It is true that the fourth tranche, which refers precisely to the loss of tax revenue relating to COVID, will have to be resolved, but, Your Honor, we are negotiating with Euskadi, we are negotiating with his Government. So, unity... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Cayetana ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING TO DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION? [[File number 180/000247]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u33	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo Peralta-Ramos of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you. Mrs Calvo, on Sunday, Pere Aragonès, vice president of the Generality and his investiture partner, declared the following: What is the Bourbon monarchy but a criminal organization? We have to move from the Catalan Republic to bring down this regime and this monarchy. Yesterday, with the vote of Esquerra, the Catalan Parliament called for the abdication of Felipe VI and the reprobation of Mr Sánchez. Tell me, does the Government intend to continue to cultivate the support of parties that attack the Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u34	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, you have asked me strictly what this Government is doing to defend the Constitution: to work within the exclusive framework of its functions and powers, not in another, and to develop them; no more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u36	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Indeed, no more; that is, nothing. Mrs Calvo, these days in Europe the principle of reality has been imposed, there will be no European support for a counter-reformist programme, let alone for a break-up agenda. However, it is what their partners promote, an agenda of rupture. First they attack the democratic order and, what you do, they keep the table with Torra, now erected as an unusual anti-monarchy prosecutor, and they contemplate passive the premature release of Junqueras, a Republican fake that prefixes identity to equality and confuses bonhomia with the right to delinquent, even to recidivize. Their partners also attack the king, they want to win against the crown what they lost against the Constitution, as if the crown and the Constitution were not inseparable today. The modern monarchy is the daughter of the Constitution, that is, of the Spanish people. And what does the government do? The president stirs up the debate on the monarchy to cover his deplorable management of the pandemic and the vice president takes the maneuver to aim directly at Felipe VI. Skilled generating noise on the king, useless tracking the virus. Finally, its partners challenge the economic and social consensus of the old Moncloa Pacts. And what are you doing? They agreed with Bildu to repeal labour reform and now say that this radical agenda is compatible with Europe's help. It is not, there is no European support for a radical agenda, nor is there support in Spain for a break-up agenda. Mrs. Calvo, accept the principle of reality there and here, spare yourself your anti-monarchy campaigns. To engender a republic, a confederation, the Constitution must be repealed, and the Constitution cannot be repealed without the support of the People's Party, and that will never happen. They lose all hope, do not encourage fiction, political or economic. Abandon your counter-reformist impulse and the fanfarers of the breakup and face the reform. Reform is the great legacy of the Transition, it is the clear mandate of Europe and it is the point, the center, where you will meet with the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u37	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, you are asking me today expressly for the defence that this Government makes of the Constitution. I'm going to have to remind you of Article 111, the control questions, and how you skip it. I will tell you what it is for us to defend it: develop it. It consists of having brought in just six months of the legislature and going through this pandemic a law of climate change, an education law, the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, the introduction of the minimum living income. [[Rumors]] Am I? And having decreed the alarm, article 116, without their support, in order to be able to protect this country. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That is the Constitution for this Government, exactly that: to develop policies that make this country fairer, more equal and more supportive. [[applause]] But look, what's underneath that interpretation you're doing is always the same: the Constitution that you're patrimonializing. You, who arrived late, have it patrimonialized and exclusive: my interpretation is unique and it does not fit anyone else, that of any seat in this House that arrives here because it has been freely voted by the Spanish and Spanish. In this absolutely patrimonial and exclusive vision, democratic values are hidden. Thankfully, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, this country is a great democracy, that citizens go freely to the polls and that we have the Constitutional Court to interpret it. But I will tell you more and remind you: when are you going to apply Article 122, the reform of the General Council of the Judiciary, with which you are playing to block a power of the State? [[Applauds]] Think about it. - OF THE DEPUTY DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT MORE DOES IT HAVE TO DO FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO SUPPORT THE CELEBRATION OF A REFERENDUM ON THE JEFACTURE OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/000245]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u39	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u40	Thank you very much, President. Madam Vice-President, the citizenry is witnessing a series of scandals linked to the Royal House these days that, what you want me to say, are more typical of a series of Netflix and those criminal plots than anything else. That is why I ask you: What else would have to happen if the Government were to support a referendum on the Head of State? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u41	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iñarritu, you are asking me about something as important as the form of state and in view of it, I imagine that for our compatriots who are seeing us at this time, how a democracy can subject each and every issue of its life to debate. But, look, it would have to happen that the political parties of this country in an electoral debate, in an electoral campaign, put it in their draft calls. It is not in the Government, no referendum is planned that will lead to nothing more and nothing less than a reform of the Constitution of that size. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u43	Mr. Iñarritu García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u44	Madam Vice-President, I understand that the situation is not easy and should not be comfortable for you, but neither can you make us swallow with mill wheels. At a time when the myth of juancarism collapses, no other false myth of exemplary philipism can be created. At this moment the reality is that there are several issues, several scandals that point in one way or another to the current Head of State and, in the meantime, a state marketing and whitewashing campaign is activated, with a tour of Spain included, to try to hide what is happening, but more and more people are demanding to know the whole truth above any kind of impunity and, in addition, they wonder what a king is for. Faced with this, we see how we are filtered that the government has theoretically agreed with the Royal House that, taking advantage of the summer period, a gesture will be made to defend the emeritus, as was done on the first day of the state of alarm, on a Sunday afternoon, and in view of this situation what is true is that no debate can be brought to this Congress. We see how you can't investigate, you can't question and you can't ask about matters that have to do directly with the real house. That is why I would ask you if you believe that this strengthens the monarchy or even the state. I doubt it. Finally, I recently heard the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, say something interesting; that measures had to be taken to put an end to the inviolability of the head of State. I think that's common sense and I share it. Now, don't you think it would be common sense, before starting any constitutional reform, to ask citizens to see if they want or don't want to have a king or whether they prefer to democratically elect their head of state? That's why I ask you what else has to happen for you to support a referendum on the monarchy? Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u45	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iñarritu, what has to happen every day is that both you and I, in different but public positions of responsibility both, respect the constitutional framework and respect it in the Head of State, and nothing more. And in relation to the other issues on which you have made an exegesis understandable from your political position, I would like to say that there is no debate in two minutes thirty seconds for a reform of the Constitution that leads us - today goes from the Constitution, as it could not otherwise be - to Article 168, which you know, and you fully understand the extent of support. It is so simple, it is so important and it is so safe to be able to work within the framework of the Constitution. The head of State is not in question in this country. It is our constitutional framework, it is for you and for me, keeping different positions in view of the intervention you have had, but there is no more. Let us not invent any other situation because the truth is finally clarified in the framework of the rule of law, in justice, and the political debates that take place in this House, from the point of view of the Government, must all comply with the framework that you and I have given ourselves in our seats. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT AUTOCRITICALLY DOES THE SECOND Vice-President OF HIS GOVERNMENT WORK? [[File number 180/00248]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u47	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Asks the deputy Don Teodoro García Egea of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iglesias, Mr Sánchez, Mr Schuman, Mr Monnet and Mr Adenauer were members of the People's Party, as married. All of Spain is looking forward to seeing who you betray before, whether your partners or Europe, and then we don't know who you are going to applaud. Mr Iglesias, your step through the government has had one purpose: to see that you are a fraud because you have come to regenerate politics and you have ended up being the emperor of the sewers. [[Mr. Guijarro García: What a shame! It's a shame!]] The Galicians and the Basques have taken stock of their management, the results have been bad for the Socialist Party and we are sorry for Podemos and, since you are so much of a card, in Galicia they have taken the red card from you; closing when you leave, Mr. Iglesias. According to the University of Cambridge, you are the worst-ever government, the worst-managed pandemic. Do you go to Cambridge University? If there was no alternative plan to the state of alarm, why can autonomous presidents now confine the population? What self-criticism do you make of your government work, Mr. Iglesias?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u49	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Encourage yourself, Don Teodoro, that I see you today more quenched than often. [[Applauds]] And encourage your bench, which you have not even devoted to today. Come on, ladies and gentlemen! You were careful not to quote Altiero Spinelli in his first speech. I again commend you on the very high level of your parliamentary speeches in response to your question. Look, this crisis is being a cure of humility for all, for this government as well. I am very proud, as Vice-President of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, of having contributed to an unprecedented social shield, but there are things that we have not achieved and for which we have to be critical. I'll give you an example. The situation of the temps in this country, without which it would be very difficult to get fruits and vegetables to the supermarkets at the most difficult times, shame on our country; we have not yet managed to reverse that and this vice president works with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion to achieve it. Of course we're self-critical! And we will continue to be, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u51	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Those who have bad faces and bad spirits, Mr Iglesias, are the elected Members of Podemos in the Galician Parliament. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Explosives, weapons and drugs are controlled at airports to protect our security. Why, then, are not controls made to guarantee our freedom, to ensure that people do not carry the coronavirus, so as not to throw the effort of thousands of Spaniards on the edge during these months? Is the only thing this government knows how to do is confine us? Now you can attack and insult the PP, the judges and the press, but the only one who is currently investigating justice for destroying hard drives is you and I think you should look back and remember when you were defaming others who have now been declared innocent. Mr Iglesias, you complain that in Europe you do not trust your government; you have complained bitterly. But, of course, there is no vice president in Europe who has stolen the card from a mobile phone, hidden it for several months and is now being investigated by the courts. The normal thing in Europe is to ask for the phone number and not to steal the mobile card; this is what is usually done in Europe. [[Applauds]] But it's not just your fault. The fault is above all that it has next door, because the silences of Pedro Sánchez are more serious than the words of Mr. Iglesias. President Sánchez has allowed the sewers to sit on the Council of Ministers today. [[Strong Protests]] Mr. Churches, the National Court is investigating you. It would be good if it could be clarified if you continued to think that in politics you do not ask for forgiveness, in politics you resign. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u53	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Don Teodoro, you and I already know each other a little and today you don't have your best day. [[Laughs.-Protests]] And, look, I get it. I understand that you are frustrated. Frustration results in banners being pulled from the bench, shouted and insulted. You have been working these days against the interests of Spain. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u56	You, despite your flags, are already known in Spain as the Dutch party. What a shame! You did not understand that the pandemic was a set of extraordinary situations in which the main opposition party was expected to tie its shoulder. You understood it as an opportunity to bring down the Government of Spain. You wanted Spain to get cuts and black men, because you think that if things go wrong here, you have a chance to regain power. And I understand your frustration, because you know perfectly well that Mr Casado will never be president of Spain. [[Rumors]] You have two options, ladies and gentlemen. You can continue on the berry, on the insult and on the banner... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u58	...or they can hoist their shoulder and be a responsible opposition. If they do so, they will not only help our country, but will have the respect of their constituents, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u59	I pray silently. [[A Member of Parliament: Everyone!- Rumours]] I beg your silence, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES SHE CONSIDER THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS INCLUDED BY THE CALLED 'CAST DINE'? [[File number 180/00252]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u60	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you consider that the so-called Dina case is the responsibility of the government?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u62	Minister for Justice. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u63	Thank you, Madam President. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the monitoring session and the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u65	Mrs Olona, knowing how I know your vast legal background, I have to tell you that I cannot understand the question that you ask me. He asks for an assessment, my assessment, of the government's responsibility in what you call the Dina case. Look, I'm reviewing my legal knowledge, too. What are we talking about here? We are talking about a monitoring session, the second paragraph of article 66 of the Constitution: the Courts control the action of the Government. Where's the action? What generous and overly broad interpretation do you make to circumscribe the question? But, well, the formula. What assessment do I make? Look, the Minister of Justice doesn't make legal assessments. If you did, you would criticize me and I would accept the criticisms, because the Minister of Justice does not have to value judicial proceedings because he believes - and I know you too - in the separation of powers. Let us therefore let each one fulfill his constitutional and certain task that is best for all of us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u66	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u67	Thank you, President. Minister, let me make a point. This question was addressed to Mrs Calvo, but she has decided to avoid her answer and that it is the Minister of Justice who faces her. I can understand that Mrs Calvo prefers to stay away from Mr Iglesias' troubles of skirts, I can understand that personally, but the reality is that a member of the government, nothing more and nothing less than the second vice president, is at the door of an accusation and the duty of the first vice president is to be accountable to this House and not to hide behind any minister, let alone with due respect, Minister of Justice. [[rumors and protests]] I'll be right with you. The information we are familiar with about the Dina case - which I do not call it, they call it that in the media and the National Audience itself - puts Podemos and, more specifically, his second vice president in a hideous scythe, in a laudation from which this Government cannot escape, neither with its silence nor, much less, with its evasive ones, because it makes him complicit in embracing those cloacas to which Mr.Theodoro referred. The Spanish need answers, Minister, and their obligation, the obligation of this government, not their personnel, is to provide them. Do you share Mr. Iglesias' statements when he criticizes the decision taken by the National Court to withdraw his injured status in the Dina case? Do you share Mr. Iglesias's statements when he smears the journalists of three media outlets who are publishing information about the Dina case, specifically El Mundo, El Confidencial and OkDiario? Do you consider that the attacks that Mr. Iglesias is launching against journalists from his institutional position, pointing them out with names and surnames, in some cases calling them media cloacas, are compatible with the freedom of the press guaranteed by our Constitution? Did Mr. Iglesias damage the SIM card? Why did he do it if, supposedly, the intimate images only affected his exassayer? Are we facing a new mess of Mr. Iglesias skirts? [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u69	Can they guarantee the control of damage that may affect other ministries, such as, for example, the ministry of 'equal da'? Because the information that comes to me, Minister, is complicated and points to a time bomb with Venezuelan culebrón dyes. Answer, Minister, because when investigations affect his majesty the Emeritus King makes assessments, when investigations affect members of his parties make assessments. They don't hide behind that smokescreen that only makes them accomplices to the sewers that have decided to ascend to the Moncloa. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u70	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Olona, I am sorry for everything I have heard, because when I started my speech I told you that I know of your vast legal knowledge, but today I have to say that you left them in the closet. The parallel trial, the early trial, is not good and should not be presided over. Rescue those legal values that you learned and that you have very internalized: presumption of innocence, equality of all before justice. Your Honor, the rules. The Government has the power even to determine who answers a question, according to the criteria of the Government, of course it does!, and that is the legal order. The principles of democracy are achieved in a very clear way, and it is doing the role here and not narrating the role that others have to do. Separation of powers. He's got it very internalized. Look, with actions like yesterday's of your group, they move away from the feeling of citizens and from the feeling of democracy. Yesterday, except for you, who signed with a no, all political groups passed a law in the Organizational and Procedural Reforms Commission to serve the Administration of Justice for COVID. Think about whether that's contributing to democracy. Of course, contributing to democracy is not raising a parallel judgment from this rostrum. He won't find us there. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL THE GOVERNMENT IN THE FISCAL MINISTER FOR THE USE OF THE GROSS THIRD PENITENTIAL GOVERNMENT TO THE SPECIAL CASE 20907/2017? [[File number 180/00254]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u72	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, to contribute to democracy is to ensure that everyone fulfils his or her duty. I, without the slightest hope of obtaining an affirmative and not even clear answer from you today, ask you: Will the Government urge the prosecutor's office to resort to the granting of the third degree of imprisonment to those convicted in the so-called trial case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u74	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gil Lázaro, I have to admit that with one would not have been enough, but I have to tell you one thing: the questions from your parliamentary group - and don't take it wrong - make me take that judge and that teacher that I carry inside. That's why that 'no' is going to be motivated. Look, with questions like the one you just asked me, what you're externalizing is that neither the separation of powers, nor the role of the government's relationship with the prosecutor's office, nor the role of autonomy in acting independently from the judiciary, nor in acting independently from the prosecutor's office. Look, article 124: the prosecutor promotes the action of justice. Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, articles 1, 2 and 8; in 8 we have the relationship of the Government with the Ministry of Public Prosecutions: only in defense of the public interest. Do you think a specific case might be okay? Would you like me to tell you that the government has said yes or no and to appeal it? It will not find us there, because this Government creates the legal order, creates the Constitution and the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office, and will do everything possible to strengthen the role of the prosecutor's office. Therefore, the prosecutor's office will evaluate, under the principles of unity of action, hierarchical dependence, legality and action in the specific case, what it has to do; and we will know, of course, calm. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u76	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you told me a nun because, apparently, you don't remember the thing about - I open quotes - who does the prosecution depend on? Well that - close quotes -. However, you have said no, that the Government is not going to urge the prosecutor's office to resort to the granting of that third prison degree, and I will tell you exactly why. Look, they're not going to do it for a simple reason, because the president of the government has already declared that, in the face of a fact that is a mockery of justice and that it is a chapter more added to the permanent coup of the independenceists against national unity and against Spanish democracy, he had nothing to object to. He had nothing to object to and nothing to object to, simply because he betrays his duty as ruler, which is the defence of the rule of law, because he has to yield to the blackmail of the independenceists, to the extent that it depends on his votes in this House in order to be able to continue to remain in the Moncloa. And, look, you told me you'd value the prosecution. Minister, many, millions of Spaniards have the suspicion, on account of the background and the statement of the President of the Government, that the Government, by itself or through the Attorney General, is going to try to prevent the prosecutor's office from submitting such a remedy, as it did, for example, with the State Attorney's Office, forcing them to rectify and withdraw the offence's classification as a crime of rebellion. And it is the only remedy that, at this time, the rule of law is left to prevail: the filing of that remedy by the prosecutor's office. In short, all this is part of the same, of that constituent crisis that you announced in this House and which is no longer intended to liquidate constitutional Spain. And, in the face of that, VOX will continue to uphold principles and, of course, the parliamentary monarchy as an expression and synthesis of that. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Gil Lázaro, there is a storm of ideas that you have just expressed, by the way, inconsistent, inconsistent and erroneous. You don't believe in anything; you don't believe in the rule of law, you don't believe in the separation of powers, you don't believe in the role of the prosecutor's office. Look, the prosecutor's office is part of the judiciary; be aware, be aware, that you have forgotten it very much. It works under principles that we have to be very proud of, which are the principles of unity of action, hierarchical dependence, legality and autonomy in their performance. The Government can only make use, through article 8 of the Organic Statute, of the general interest; I have told it before and I reiterate it, because it has not been left behind. And you're asking me to give you an answer, and I'm not giving it to you, because I don't have it. Because the government is not going to tell the prosecution at any time what it has to do in specific cases. Only in the defence of the public interest can the Government make use of that legal avenue that it has. But you don't believe this because you have your film assembled and that's all you need. And there, I insist, we don't make the rule of law strong. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: GENERATE DIStrust IN OUR EUROPEAN SOCIETY FOR THE NEGOTIATION OF THE RECONSTRUCTION FUNDS THE PRESENCE OF COMMON MINISTERS IN THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00253]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u80	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, not many years ago a certain Pablo Iglesias, who was going to defend in those plates not to comply with Europe, was jumping through the TV sets. I know because I met him in those years. And what he was defending was to stop paying the debt, abandon the euro, go back to the peseta, devalue it, nationalize banking and private property. Bolivarian style. You know it's like, "Exhale!" The bad news is that at that time we met some of the Sepblacs also met him. But, well, you'll have time to talk about it carefully. And the bad news is that he was then also met by Europeans because, unfortunately for Spain, he was elected a Euro MP and there they knew him quite well. Now we know that those proclamations, that ideology lapses and nightfalls, that the communism that he has been defending for many years has had a great cost to Spain and above all to you as a government. And it is that you have now had to accept the conditions that seemed unacceptable to you on Friday and it is wonderful that you are able to applaud in an unholy way everything that last week was unable to accept. Wonderful what you did this morning and what you did the other day in Moncloa. Minister, how do you appreciate the mistrust that has generated in Europe the presence of communists in the Government of Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u82	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u83	Of course, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you will have many gifts but not that of political opportunity. To bring to this House today this question in which you specifically ask the government to explain how it believes that European partners value the presence of different ministers of various ideological natures in the government... I refer to the evidence, to the facts I refer to: for no more than with a historical agreement, that the government of Pedro Sánchez brings to this country, for the reconstruction of its economy and for no one to stay behind. That's what I answer for you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u84	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u85	Madam Minister, you do not know how happy we are that you today accept the conditions of the rescue that has been imposed on Spain, that those same conditions that you did not accept on Friday seem wonderful to you today. Congratulations. Do you know what's going on? When you go to Europe to negotiate with people who don't believe in the rule of law, who don't believe in free market conditions, you end up with what's going on here; and it's not the first time it's happened, it's already happened in Greece. When you negotiate with communists, when there are communists in the government, do you know what there is? Economic contraction and rising taxes. Do you remember those taxes you denied me for four months? He's finally got them up, hasn't he? And you know what's next? I already told you. This is what they are going to impose on us in Europe, which is the reduction of pensions and the reduction of civil servants' salaries. And you, in a few months' time, when you have to accept those bailout conditions that you have imposed on them and that today you applaud so joyfully, you will say that it is Europe's fault. Mr. President says he's been negotiating for four or five days and he's exhausted. It is true that you look very tired, I recommend that you take a vacation, you can take a week, a month, or, look, that you take the whole semester because it will be much better for all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But when I come back and you have to put in place those conditions that you have imposed for the rescue, we will remember what I have been saying for months: tax increases, freezing or lowering pensions and lowering public salaries. And if not, on time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u86	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Do you know what's going on, Mr Espinosa? It is a pity that in this country the Spanish right, its group and the People's Group are terribly saddened by the historic agreement reached by the Spanish Government. That's the penalty. [[Applauds]] And you know why? Because you call yourselves patriots but when the country wins, you don't rejoice. You have been working against Spain's interests in Europe. Specifically your group, well, not your group, your Members voted in Parliament against the strict establishment of a reconstruction fund. You voted against it. Despite the fact that Liberals, Conservatives and even Populars voted in favour of the fund, their deputies voted against, even against the criteria of their own group. The People's Party also sent a report to Europe saying that there was no democracy in this country. All this in order to sharpen the credibility of this Executive, the credibility of this Government, in order to obtain funds that are essential for economic recovery. But do you know what's going on, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros? That you confuse the plans, confuse the levels, because in the European negotiation the Executive of Pedro Sánchez has not won. Do you know who won in the European agreement? It has won Spain, it has won Europe, which are stronger from now on and they are going to launch a programme that will allow this country to take advantage of those resources to make the big changes, the big changes it had on the agenda, such as the ability to drive a green economy, the ability to make a digital transition and - more importantly, Your Honor - to have a future for our young people, employment opportunities and a good quality of life. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HAVE THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT EXPIRED ON POLITICAL CHARGES? [[File number 180/00244]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u88	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u89	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Mr. Marlaska. Is the government, or has it been, spying on political dissent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u90	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rufián, I could simply say no, of course not, but I will remind you that our constitutional system - although I have seen that it is sometimes forgotten today - is not militant. Our constitutional system protects political views, as it could not otherwise be, even from those who do not share the constitutional model. The State Security Forces and Corpses are the only ones investigating that constitute a crime, and no, political opinions are not a crime. I say to you again, acts constituting a crime, always under the impulse of the prosecutor's office and with the mandate and judicial control. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u92	Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Marlaska, I thank you for something more than a no, but it's that I don't say that about espionage to political dissent, the Guardian and El País say last week, that they're hardly suspected of being secessionists or social communists. The fact of spying on people like Torrent, Ana Gabriel, Ernest Maragall and surely so many others and others, is terribly dangerous, especially because there is no initial court order. People, lately - some time ago - are hallucinating because they are getting publicity on topics they talk about. I mean, people talk about Orlando and sometimes they get it in their email or on their mobile phone advertising fried tomato and hallucin. People say it's because of the Facebook, Instagram or Apple algorithm. For people to understand, our algorithm, the independence algorithm, is the Civil Guard or the CNI, and advertising is invented police cars. Do you imagine that it was published one day that Mrs. Montero, or Mr. Duke, or Mr. Illa, or Mrs. Montero, or you, or Mr. Campo, or Mrs. Lastra, or Mr. Simancas, or you, or you, or you, or you, especially to the bench on the left? Do you know what the answer is? [[pointing out to different Members of the House]] That's probably happened. Yes, they've been spying on everyone. And every time you - the most pluralist, progressive and plurinational government in history - say that yes, what an evil, it's ugly, it's very serious, but you don't do anything, it's even more serious. They have to do something. We propose a commission of inquiry and see how deep the rabbit burrow is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u94	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, Mr Rufián. In the face of information in various media - as you have indicated - you already resolve and determine the authorship and concrete that is being spyed on by the Government and the institutions of the Government. I tell you again, neither the Civil Guard nor the National Police nor the CNI investigate or spy on political opinions. Here there was a Commission of Inquiry, in which you participated, into another government - the People's Party government - and you know that there has been a fundamental and essential change that I am absolutely proud of. In this regard, I would like to say again that in this State, in the rule of law, the police do not investigate political opinions, do not spy on political opinions, nor those who do not share the constitutional model, do only investigate acts constituting crimes. The CNI also has judicial control, including parliamentary control through the Commission of Official Secrets. The Civil Guard, the National Police, only investigates, and I reiterate, criminal acts with the impulse of the Prosecutor's Office and with judicial control. I repeat, with this government of the Socialist Party and of the United Nations We can the principle of legality is the basic pillar, the master stone on which the actions of the Forces and Bodies of State Security and the CNI are supported. I repeat, no political ideas are pursued. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING TO CONTROL COVID-19 REBROOTS? [[File number 180/00250]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u96	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u97	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, first of all, it was the outbreaks of the COVID, with its disastrous management, that made us the worst OECD country to deal with them, at a high price not for the government, but for the Spanish. Now the rebounds - already more than two hundred - are fired, multiplying by four the cases in the last three weeks and we are already the worst in Europe again. The question is what is the government doing to control them?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u98	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the Government is implementing what is provided for in the Early Response Plan in a pandemic control scenario created by COVID-19, a plan that was agreed with the Autonomous Communities within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System on July 16. In this phase of control the important thing is the early detection of the cases and the surveillance and the decisive action when they are detected, with a pre-eminent role of the autonomous communities, with which we are in constant dialogue and collaboration, monitoring their work and supporting in everything they ask us, in a context in which we already knew that everywhere the pandemic is controlled there are outbreaks. You don't have to be afraid of the virus, but you don't have to lose your respect. I take your question to reiterate this appeal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u100	Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u101	One day before the alarm state was lifted, President Sánchez seemed to have it clear - I open quotes -: 'The virus will return and face us in a second wave. We have to avoid it at all costs.' I close quotes. But no, it was a mirage, again you go behind the virus, making the same mistakes, as if you had learned nothing. This time they can't say it was impossible to anticipate. The WHO knew it, the president knew it, and the virus doesn't cheat. Why then a month later it seems that the rebounds have caught them again unsuspecting? Because of his reoccurrence incompetence. How is it possible that the Early Action Plan - what a paradox, you always arrive late! - will be approved one month after the alarm state has been lifted, when the rebounds and contagions are already present among us? For his indomitable inefficiency. How is it possible that the tracking APP that would have to support the search for contacts still remains a pilot? How is it possible that strategic reserves still do not reach Spain five months later? How is it possible that, following the increase in imported cases detected in Madrid, a specific plan of additional measures in Barajas and other airports is not addressed? The clinical eye is not effective. More external health; test, Mr. Illa. Wash your hands again and look away: it is the competence of the autonomous communities or it is the individual responsibility of the Spaniards, so as not to assume their competences, their responsibility. Mr. Illa, the virus is still there and you are still the sole command under the Public Health Act. Do you have plan B or trust our fate again in the confinement? Please answer this question to the Spanish. They will say that citizens, especially young people, have lost respect for the virus, as we are already doing today, and that is why we have become infected, but it is you who have lost respect for the Spaniards by not guaranteeing effective measures. Look, Mr. Illa, the Spanish don't need rapporteurs on how the virus is moving again, chroniclers of the rebounds, they need leadership and decisions. The rebounds have been stocked for the economy, the rebounds will be stocked if they do not react. You're still a Minister of Health, but you've long since resigned from your responsibilities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u102	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, today in Spain, according to the latest data, there are 224 active outbreaks with 2622 cases associated with them, most of them linked to fruit harvesting activities and also to spaces where the measures we have been recommending relax, family environment or night entertainment spaces. All the autonomous communities, all of them, have acted by detecting these outbreaks and containing them. Some of them have taken decisions that have been, in more than a dozen cases, endorsed by the competent judicial authority, as is the case when a fundamental right is restricted. Instruments there are, adequate, to contain the outbreaks that are, I insist, most of them controlled. The situation in Catalonia and Aragon is particularly worrying, and the health authorities of these autonomous communities are also acting in constant dialogue and permanent relationship with the Government of Spain. It seems to me that what we must do is call on citizens not to lose respect for the virus; we must not be afraid of it, but we must not lose respect for it. Moreover, if we look at what is happening in our context, the pandemic in the world is not going well, but those countries - fortunately, ours among them - that we have managed to contain the virus we are all encountering the same situation: outbreaks that have to be detected early and before which we must act diligently and promptly, as is being done in most cases in Spain. You tell me to face up to the responsibilities. There, you'll allow me, very few lessons. I invite you once again to add to your efforts to contain the virus and not to generate alarmism. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: what emergency measures are the plans to adopt the Government to give solution to the economic-administering collapsing which has led to the plateau and to the centres of the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, between them the one at Gijon, in the most critical of its history, seriously compromising the development of marine research and its resources? [[I.E.O.]] [[INSTITUTIONS]] [[File number 180/00240]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u104	Question to the Minister for Science and Innovation. Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Spanish Institute of Oceanography is going through the most critical moment in its century-old history, with an economic-administrative collapse of extremely serious consequences for its centers, facilities, ships and personnel, as well as for marine research and fishing resources. That is why I ask the Government about emergency measures to solve this unsustainable situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u106	Minister for Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, you ask me about the emergency measures we intend to take, and I announce that we have already taken all possible and necessary emergency measures. A new management team with logistical support of specialized personnel has been appointed; we have injected more than four and a half million additional Euros from the ministry; ninety-nine staff contracts have been released and the new team is already solving multiple problems in order to ensure the proper execution of the allocated funds. Already in the longer term, within the shock plan presented by the President of the Government, funds are included for the construction of a new oceanographic ship long needed for the value of 85 million euros, all with the aim of solving already the most pressing problems of the Institute of Oceanography. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u108	Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u109	Mr Duque, it has been more than two years as a minister and at this time the situation of the IOE has retreated from bad to chaotic. In fact, in this semester it has had three different leaders and its executive is decapitated, as well as several territorial directors have asked for relief in a wake-up call on the worrying course of national oceanography. As a Member of the opposition, I am pleased that just a few hours ago, on the eve of my question in this monitoring session, you sent a letter to transfer to all staff the much - very much - that the Government is going to do this time, including integration into the CSIC, which will dilute the autonomous character of the IEO, in a decision that has already outraged many, completely removed from the diagnosis, conclusions and solutions proposed by the working group, which has recently accurately reflected the boredom of the oceanographic community, the one you had not addressed until yesterday. [[shows a document]] The burden comes from the lack of agility to overcome the endless obstacles that prevent staff from meeting the needs, facing essential purchases and overcoming the obstacles in time to use the funds. Mr Duque, science cannot resign itself to having an ornamental presence in the Council of Ministers that does not solve problems. This course reveals its inoperability to confront the bureaucracy that has collapsed the Spanish Institute of Oceanography and that it is a palmary example of the great evils that afflict the issues that are of its entire responsibility and competence. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Minister for Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u111	Thank you, Madam President. True, the IEO needed structural and quiet reforms. There is a consensus that it is essential to improve its legal regime in order to maintain the quality of its two complementary functions: research and technical advice. We have considered possible short-term viable options and the chosen option is to provide these public research bodies - the IEO, the IGME and the INIA - with a more favourable legal framework. They will become organically dependent on the CSIC, but will maintain its name and all its activities. They will have the status of the national centre, with the same centres and institutes as at present. They will also maintain a steering committee with representatives of the ministries and sectors involved, as it was so far. This integration, which will involve more effective and agile administrative management, will be very positive for the institutes and for the Spanish science system in general. With these reforms that we are putting in place we honor the history of the IEO and secure its future. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. BELEN TODAY JULIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WHAT IS FOR YOU A MACHIST DRIVING? [[File number 180/00249]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u112	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality of Mrs Belén Hoyo Juliá of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u113	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Montero, do you need protection? I, as a woman, don't need it because I'm free and equal, and I feel like this without any complex. His feminism definitely has nothing to do with mine. Its feminism is fixed discontinuous, its feminism is glued and its feminism is fake. I don't need protectors or guardians, and that's why I think Dina didn't need them either. I did not need anyone who, of course, exercised a right of usufruct over her, who exercised a right of usufruct over her privacy. I simply find it unacceptable and shameful that your ministry does not condemn this fact. Mrs. Montero, do you recognize a sexist? Do you know what a machismo is? What would you do if they behaved with you just as they behaved with Mrs. Dina? I think I'd repudiate him. And I tell you one thing, there's a couple that is forever, a couple that is stable, and it's consciousness. With our consciousness we sleep absolutely every day of our life and, therefore, this question gives you an opportunity, an opportunity to choose between its principles or incoherence. I advise you to choose your principles, because this is the only way to free yourself from a burden forever. The author of these facts is neither a bourgeois of the 1960s nor an anonymous sexist. We are talking about the Vice-President of the Government of Spain, that of the whips, that of a party which one of its greatest leaders, Mrs Bescansa, accused as a sexist; his party, Mrs Montero. As I was telling you, today you have a chance. Behind the INAH are all Spanish women. You have an opportunity to choose between manifesting with them against all kinds of macho violence or choosing incoherence. But I will tell you something: behind the incoherence there are thousands of women who are having a very bad time and who will not trust you if they have ever done so. This is the moment of truth, it is the moment of courage, it is the moment of'stop already'; do not let anyone decide for you because at that moment you will be becoming a victim... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Hoyo. Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Look, I understand your anger, your being lost in opposing the government, because, of course, for a long time everything has gone wrong with you. You believed that it would be impossible for there to be a motion of censure that would take you out of the government for corruption, then you tried not to have a coalition government in Spain, then you took advantage of the worst health emergency in a hundred years to try to bring down the government and then you worked, betraying the interests of Spain, to try to make cuts in Spain, and today you have not even been able to recognize the enormous work that the President of the government and this Executive have done to draw a historic agreement in Spain and Europe, which leaves behind a decade of austerity that you have been the protagonists in Spain. [[Applauds]] Then, they only have the right to kick and call us criminals, murderers, sexists and all the more barbaric things, because they only have the right to kick; not a single political proposal in all these months, only the right to kick. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u117	But I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect on what message you are sending so many women to whom feminism is their table of salvation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u118	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u119	You say that women do not need protection, for, look, the protection given by public policies that fight gender-based violence and that you cut whenever you are in government it is those that save the lives of thousands of women in this country. [[applause]] What message do you send, ladies and gentlemen? That everything's worth it? Are they sending you the message that it is worth anything, even using feminism vilely to try to attack this government? Can't you say, at least in some things, we agree, to respect the state pact? Is it really worth it, ladies and gentlemen, to make such a vile opposition, is it really worth it? Get to work, ladies and gentlemen, please! - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ ALBERTO HERRERO BONO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING TO ATTACK THE CRISIS OF THE TURIST SECTOR? [[Applauds]] [[File number 180/00251]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u120	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr José Alberto Herrero Bono, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u121	Thank you, President. Minister, if we review the policies you propose, the tourism sector in Spain dies. The last example of her inability has been the recent cessation of the Secretary of State for Tourism, Ms. Isabel Oliver, by the scandal of the collage of false identifications of anti-COVID certificates. Mrs. Maroto, your irresponsibility and incompetence is capital because it again generates mistrust in our tourist destinations. All this is in addition to the long list of misconceptions that his Government has accumulated with the sector, such as the unilateral quarantine of May, which diverted holiday plans to other destinations, or the statements of Minister Garzón stating that the tourism sector is a low-value-added sector, or the non-existent preventive measures at the border, not to mention the ridiculous plan of tourism that comes late, bad and never. Disproposals that will make the tourism sector in Spain lose between 60 000 and 80 billion euros due to the forecasts and mistakes of its government. Therefore, Mrs Maroto, in addition to improvising and rectifying, what is your Government doing to tackle the crisis in the tourism sector? Madam President, Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u122	Thank you so much. The truth is, I'm quite concerned about your question after listening to Mrs. Gamarra. You talk about that we are generating mistrust, that we are always going behind the facts; you - and I think Spain and the tourism sector do not deserve it - are using confrontation with the government, now the rebounds, at the time the health crisis and the pandemic, to generate mistrust. I would tell you that if you really want to help the tourism sector work with the government, to leave the confrontation, to join that space of dialogue and that, as a result of the fund that we got yesterday in the European Union, among all of us, we make this a country of opportunity. Undoubtedly, the mistrust, Your Honor, is generating it, I repeat, by using the rebounds, by confronting the government and that is not helping the sector. We can make shock plans, we can make reactivation plans, but certainly the distrust that your statements and those that Mrs Gamarra has just made, returning to the confrontation instead of the agreement, cause the tourism sector to recover late and badly. Therefore, work with the Government, get into a constructive phase and really use your word to help the tourism sector and this Government build a country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u123	Sir, Herrero Bono.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u124	Minister, the problem is that with you tourism has no specific weight in your ministry and the sector pays it. The Government of France has allocated EUR 18 billion to encourage tourism in France; instead, you here are dispatching a sad EUR 4 billion to the tourism sector. By the way, EUR 3362 million from the ICO's collateral lines. The clear example is Exceltur, which has been denouncing that at least EUR 35 billion or, which is the same, 25% of reconstruction plans, as recommended by the European Union. Mrs Maroto, stop harming the tourism sector because you know that if you do not apply tax aid, if you do not extend the ERTE and do not make it more flexible at least until the end of the year, thousands of closures and redundancies are going to occur in the sector. Mrs Maroto, stop lying to the Spaniards and do as your vice president Iglesias did in Galicia, leave and close the door to leave. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u125	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u126	Thank you so much. The truth is, Your Honor, comparisons are hateful. You talk about what France has done, what other countries have done, and we, in addition to the drive plan, which, as you have pointed out, mobilises more than €42 billion, have also developed a whole shock plan where the tourism sector has been the main beneficiary. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we have mobilised more than EUR 20 billion to support the tourism sector, but I do not want to miss the figures. I believe that behind these figures there are people, there are companies and there are workers who need certainties and, I repeat, it is the time for union, it is the time to build trust and not bewilderment, it is the time not to confront the government and align with the government. Of course, you are not exemplary in that action. I would like to highlight - and I hope that this action that the social partners have been able to take with the government in the recovery agreement and by employment to you - that if the social partners join the government, if Europe joins the government, if all the productive sectors, also the tourism sector, that it presented with the president in Moncloa the plan of impulse for the tourism sector, if everyone... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u127	Thank you, Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE KANDAMIL KINGDOM, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONCERN THE PUBLIC INTERVENTION OF ALCOA TO NATIONALIZE The plan of San Cibrao? [[File number 180/00241]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u128	Question by Mr Néstor Rego Candamil, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, given that time is running out, does the government contemplate the public intervention of Alcoa to nationalize the plant of San Cibrao and thus ensure the continuity of the activity in the jobs?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u130	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u131	Thank you very much for the question. As your honor points out, time is running out; Friday, as you know, the ERE consultation period ends and I take the opportunity from this rostrum to ask the Xunta again to work to extend that consultation period. We all need to buy time and, as you say, look for a definitive solution that guarantees productive capacities and gives tranquillity to workers and their families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u132	Mr. Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u133	Minister, on the 23rd the ERE negotiation deadline ends without any progress at this time that will allow us to see a solution agreed for the continuity of the San Cibrao aluminium plant. [[The honourable Member spreads in front of his seat a t-shirt in which he reads: 'A Mariña savior se battando']] The company does not move an apex of its purpose to stop the vats and close the plant. The unanimous cry in A Mariña is precisely: 'The vats do not stop - the vats do not stop - Alcoa does not break'. Alcoa rejected the proposal to sell and seek investors or energy partners. Two days ago, the Secretary General of Industry, Raúl Blanco, transferred the workers who found that Alcoa did not want to continue, were offered what was offered, and that everything indicates that he has a path to close. So if we really want to save the industrial activity in the region of A Mariña, guarantee the continuity of primary aluminium production and safeguard jobs, there is only one solution: public intervention, the nationalization of the aluminium plant. There is no legal impediment to this, and it is the Spanish and Galician Governments that have in their hands to do so. It no longer serves to shield oneself in the other's inaction. The Ministry must carry out its industrial plan and implement it in collaboration with the Government of Galicia. It's no use telling us that Alcoa's the enemy, either. We already know that. The only thing that serves, what is expected of the more than a thousand workers who are at risk of losing their jobs and what is expected of all the inhabitants of A Mariña and Galicia are effective solutions. At this point, two days after the end of the negotiation period if there is no extension, the only solution is public intervention. So, Minister, be clear. Does the Government have the political will to save the aluminium plant by nationalizing it, yes or no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u134	Mr. Rego, I didn't want to interrupt you while you were speaking for the characteristics of the control session, but I remind you that you are not allowed to put clothes or banners on the seats. [[Mr. Rego Candamil removes the T-shirt.-Rumors]] Freedom of expression in this House is expressed by the word, not by banners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u135	Thank you very much. Certainly, Your Honor, we share a common goal and a priority, which is to maintain productive capacities and employment at the Alcoa de Lugo plant. As the Government had rightly pointed out, it had shown its willingness to achieve that collective goal by putting on the table an industrial plan, which Alcoa had rightly rejected. We think it's still viable. We believe that there is a window of opportunity for Alcoa to sit down and work with the Spanish government, with the help of the company committee and of course the Xunta, to which we always extend our hand so that together we can find a solution to the plant. There are other alternatives that we are exploring, even if we do hope that Alcoa will have to reflect. These alternatives have to do with the search for industrial and energy partners, once we already have the fund that supports PPPs. Thus, this energy partner could also make the plant viable. Therefore, this government has put on the table solutions that Alcoa now has to value and that the company committee certainly knows. Let us hope that we will go hand in hand with all the administrations and in particular the Xunta, which has exclusive competence in industrial policy and from which we have not yet heard any proposal; many reproaches, but no proposal. At this time it is vital that the Xunta require Alcoa to extend the consultation period and it is vital that the Xunta work with the Government of Spain on industrial policy measures to maintain these productive capacities, always with the company committee and requiring Alcoa to respond to the measures that this Government has put on the table. I insist, industrial plan that gives continuity and viability or passage to industrial investment projects in which we are already working and which we have brought to the notice of the company. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the House makes available to all Members and Members of Parliament masks in order to be able to comply with the obligation to use them. I hope that we will comply with it during today's vote, when it will be difficult to maintain the interpersonal distance - in the same way that it has already been during the monitoring session - required by health prevention legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I now announce to you the amendments that have been adopted in relation to each part of the opinion of the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction following the conclusion of the telematic vote. The opinion on Health and Public Health adopted the following amendments: Amendment 98 and Transactional Amendments 1 to 8. Amendments 2, 4, 48, 291, 231, 248 and 257, particular vote No 1 and compromise amendments 2 to 23 were adopted in the opinion on Economic revival. The Opinion on Social Policies and Care Systems adopted compromise amendments 1 to 15. The opinion on the European Union adopted compromise amendments 1 to 9. The result of all the votes on the amendments tabled to the opinion of the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction will be published on the House's website, in accordance with the usual procedure, and will be appended to the minutes of this sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the opinion of the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction - for which four votes are scheduled and the particular positions made in relation to it - can be voted on by telematic means from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. today, the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 26/2020 of 7 July and the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. The meeting was suspended until 12 a.m., when it would be resumed in order to proceed to the face-to-face vote on all those matters. Thank you very much. It was ten and thirty-five minutes in the morning. The sitting was resumed at 12.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. I remind you, as I usually do, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. We begin with the votes. Opinions of non-permanent committees. Opinion of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction. Vote on the text of the opinion on Health and Public Health. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 145 plus 202 telematics votes, 347; 115 plus 141 telematics votes, 256; 30 plus 58 telematics votes, 88; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u138	The text of the opinion was adopted. Vote on the text of the opinion on Economic reactivation. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 146 plus 202 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 75 plus 94 telematics votes, 169; against, 70 plus 98 telematics votes, 168; abstentions, 1 plus 10 telematics votes, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u139	The text of the opinion was adopted. Vote on the text of the opinion on social policies and the care system. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 146 plus 202 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 77 plus 95 telematics votes, 172; against, 68 plus 107 telematics votes, 175; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u140	The text of the opinion was rejected. [[Applauds]] Vote on the text of the opinion on the European Union. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 146, plus 202 telematics votes, 348; 119, plus 157 telematics votes, 276; 25, plus 34 telematics votes, 59; abstentions, 2, plus 11 telematics votes, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u141	The text of the opinion was therefore adopted. Vote on particular positions. Particular position number 1, People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 122, plus 173 telematics votes, 295; in favour, 42, plus 52 telematics votes, 94; against, 80, plus 110 telematics votes, 190; abstentions, 11 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u142	Consequently, the particular position of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress is rejected. Private position number 2, Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 122, plus 173 telematics votes, 295; in favour, 3, plus 18 telematics votes, 21; against, 118, plus 144 telematics votes, 262; abstentions, 1, plus 11 telematics votes, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u143	The particular position of the Republican Parliamentary Group is therefore rejected. Private position number 3, Citizen Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: cast, 122, plus 173 telematics votes, 295; in favour, 41, plus 60 telematics votes, 101; against, 81, plus 110 telematics votes, 191; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u144	Consequently, the particular position of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is rejected. CONVALIDATION OR DEROGATION OF DECRETE-LEYES REALS. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - REAL DECRETO-LEY 26/2020, OF 7 JULY, OF ECONOMIC REACTIVATION MEASURES TO FRONT THE IMPACT OF COVID-19 IN TRANSPORT AND LIVING. [[File number 130/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u145	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Laws. Royal Decree-Law 2020 of 7 July on economic reactivation measures to address the impact of COVID-19 on transport and housing. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 146, plus 202 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 79, plus 110 telematics votes, 189; against, 24, plus 28 telematics votes, 52; abstentions, 43, plus 64 telematics votes, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u146	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. Processing as a draft law by the urgency procedure of Royal Decree-Law 26/2020 of 7 July of Economic Reactivation Measures to address the impact of COVID-19 in the areas of transport and housing. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 146 plus 201 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 146 plus 199 telematics votes, 345; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u147	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u148	Opinions of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the excellent Members. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 145 votes, plus 200 telematics votes, 345; 144 votes, plus 199 telematics votes, 343; against 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-22-CD200722.u149	The opinion was therefore adopted. The meeting rose. Thank you so much. It was 12:30 at noon.
