ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u2	Mr. Sanchez, you're blocking the truth. That is why yesterday we had to resort to a court of custody so that the evidence of the meeting between Mr Ábalos and the Minister of the Venezuelan dictatorship would not be destroyed. Looks like the judge's found evidence of a felony. So, before we know for justice, stop lying and tell what you know about your government's ties to the Maduro regime. The paradox in Spain is that, while Chavista geriatrics bring suitcases and money to Spain, international investment has fallen by 80% since you staged a motion of censure. And the same goes for employment: since you are president there are already more unemployed in Spain. And the most regrettable thing is that in their economic forecasts they have already thrown out the towel, they recognize that they will not be able to lower unemployment in the coming years. That's why I'm asking you: Have you given up reducing the unemployment that more than three million Spaniards suffer? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u3	Thank you, Mr. Casado. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course not, we have not given up, Mr Casado, either creating employment or reducing unemployment or eliminating, for example, the dismissal for medical leave which was the result of the reform of the People's Party's labour market and which we just abrogated yesterday in the Council of Ministers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u6	Mr Sánchez, your economic prescriptions are as credible as your electoral promises, and on top of that they propose the same failed prescriptions that led us to the worst economic crisis in our history: more waste, more deficit and more taxes. But the People's Party is a state party and also a government party, although we are temporarily in opposition. That is why on Monday I offered to agree the General Budgets if it breaks with the independenceists, an offer, by the way, to which you have not responded. You have a chance today, because you no longer have an excuse. You freely chose your partners for the investiture, but if you now choose them again for the budgets it is because you want to. Or do you think Mr. Torra cares about the unemployed in Spain, or Mr. Otegi the farmers and farmers, or Mr. Junqueras the pensioners or the self-employed? They said it here, they care about Spain. And it seems to you too if you accept a self-determination table with an incapacitated, or reform the Penal Code for pardons by the back door, or the politicization of the Attorney General's Office in exchange for budgets to follow in the Moncloa. Now everyone knows that you have another alternative, so if you want to abandon extremism, if you want to return to centrality, announce today that you break with the independenceists and sit with us to make those state agreements that I have offered you. Stop booking the dialogue as a prize to the radical minority and sit down to dialogue with the moderate majority, which is the one that suits Spain. [[Rumors]] He's still in time to rectify, and if he does, he'll have our hand stretched out. She's the only one who can prevent you from falling into the void. Believe me, I don't lie. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Casado, I do not know exactly what the aim of the question was, because you did not talk about employment or about growth or about the debt reduction you saw yesterday. I will give you some data, more than anything so that you know exactly what the current state of the Spanish economy is. Since we arrived at the government in June 2018, 622?800 new jobs have been created. In the last quarter of 2019, Mr. Casado, the largest number of people have been occupied since 2008. 55% of the employment created in the last year and a half is female, i.e. there have never been so many women working in Spain before. 88 % of the employment created with this government at the front is indefinite. The unemployment rate, in fact, remains high, but is 13.8% in the fourth quarter of 2019, the lowest since 2008. And we have done so by raising the inter-professional minimum wage to EUR 950 and we have also done so, Mr Casado, by increasing growth in the last quarter of 2019 to 0.5%, while the economy grew to 0.1 % or economies as large as the German one remained flat at 0%. Therefore, Mr Casado, the Spanish economy is growing and creating jobs. [[Several Members: No]] This you know. You're in the mood and in the fallacy. What I'm asking you to do is collaborate and abandon the catastrophe. Mr. Married, we have four years ahead of the legislature, four years of government. Aren't you going to be a little bit long between the banter and the blockade over the next four years? I am holding my hand to reach the agreements that Spain needs in the area of the renewal of constitutional bodies. [[Laughter]] Abandon the blockade, Mr Casado, focus, make a loyal, useful opposition to the Spanish and from the rational and reasonable discrepancy but also from the enormous sense of state that this country needs from the main opposition party. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WILL YOU SEE WHY THE STATE'S INSTITUTIONS ARE IN THE SERVICE OF ALL THE SPAINERS? [[File number 180/0000031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u9	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, 75% of Spaniards distrust political institutions, according to the Eurobarometer. Citizens are increasingly demanding that public-paid institutions be at the service of all Spaniards, not at the service of the government in office. My question is: Do you think that your appointments to the head of Spanish Broadcasting, CIS, the Attorney General's Office or the EFE Agency are in the general interest or only in the personal interest of you?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u11	The President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. I simply want to say that this government puts public institutions at the service of the Spaniards not because of a question of conviction, but because it really believes that the institutions are of the Spaniards and therefore have to be at the service of all the Spaniards and of all the Spaniards. [[protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u13	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u14	I'm sure you were thinking about the general interest when the Spanish Radiotelevision took over the public competition to try to turn it into a tele-PSOE! I'm sure you thought of the general interest when you put a 40-year-old gentleman in the Socialist Party at the head of the CIS, or when you plugged in your former chief of staff, or when you put your former secretary of organization at Paradores, or when you put a Socialist Party deputy in the Attorney General's Office who went from one day to another from being a Minister of Justice to being a State Attorney General! I am sure you were thinking of the Spaniards, Mr Sánchez, when the President of EFE was just fulminated, who said that this could not be the government news agency! By the way, those who most affect these toes and decisions are the professionals of these institutions. Obviously, it harms them, because they do pursue the general interest. In addition, you've hit the plug-in record: you've increased the number of senior positions by 40%, and the number of advisors by 37%. With you as President, the best way to get out of unemployment in Spain is to have a good card from the Socialist Party! But, unfortunately - and most seriously - justice does not escape its desire for power and control. These days we see you begging the People's Party to leave now, please, the judges, as you have been doing for forty years, and to what, of course, the Lords of Podemos have happily joined. And, ladies and gentlemen, we are never going to participate in that cake. Moving on to his answer: no, we don't do it now with ten seats, as we didn't want to do with fifty-seven or thirty-two. That is why we have registered a law to reform the selection criteria of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, so that it is the judges who choose the judges, so that politicians stop getting their hands on justice. Mr Sánchez, I invite you to approve our reform and, in addition, to continue with the public competitions that we have demanded for all these institutions, because, Mr Sánchez, Spain is not a loot to be divided. It's time for you to stop doing that. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. You talk about meritocracy. What merit have you accumulated from fifty-seven seats to ten seats in a matter of months? [[Protests.-Applause.]] Let him look at it, Mrs. Arrimadas. The question you have raised is whether this Government puts the institutions at the service of the Spaniards. And the question is what that means, what it means to put the institutions at the service of the Spaniards. In my opinion, putting the institutions at the service of the Spaniards means putting them, for example, at the service of the exemplaryness that the Spaniards need and demand of their public office, of their political office, and not to agree with those who have the Punica, the Gürtel where they govern and where you are doing it with them. [[Protests.-Several ladies and gentlemen: the EREs, the EREs!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u18	To put the institutions, Your Honor, at the service of the Spanish and Spanish is to put them at the service of tolerance, respect for minorities and diversity, and not as those with whom you govern in many autonomous communities, which question, for example, simply feeling different and feeling homosexual; they question it by saying that it is a disease, as does, for example, the far right. [[protests]] Putting public intentions at the service of the people, of all Spanish and Spanish is putting them at the service of women's security, and not trivializing gender-based violence, as do those political parties with which you are negotiating in different territories. [[Applauds]] To put the institutions, Your Honor, at the service of all Spaniards is to put them at the service of non-discrimination by sex, race, religion or any other consideration. And, unfortunately, Mrs. Arrimadas, that's what your party is doing when it deals with the People's Party and the ultra-right in Murcia, Andalusia and Castile and León. [[Rumors]] I will tell you one thing, Your Honor: We have four years ahead, four years of government, four years of legislature. Be you a center game, not a party that accompanies the right and the right. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Is that what you're talking about? IN THE CHAIR: MRS CAYETANA ALVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE Honourable Vice-President FIRST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT ARE THE NEXT STEPS THE GOVERNMENT IS CONCERNING TO COMPLETE THE COMMITMENTS ACQUIRED DURING THE INVESTIGATION DEBATE? [[File number 180/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u20	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you. Madam Vice-President, the whole nation wonders, completely overwhelmed, about its intentions to reform the Criminal Code in order to reduce the punishment of crimes against democracy. In recent statements you said that the Supreme Court had sent you a message, that is, you pointed to the Supreme as an inducer of that democratic downsizing. Can you explain the details of that amazing message to me? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, you have changed my question. I'd have every right to reject it, but I'll admit it. [[Several Members: Ooooh!-Laughter]] Look, this is a reformist government that is going to make decisions in the right direction against all the problems that you have accumulated when you have ruled this country. They have made the economic crisis a social crisis, a territorial crisis, a crisis of stability, and to this we are going to respond for four years, also to the reform of the Penal Code. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u23	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Mrs Calvo, the crisis is you. He has also said that Venezuela does not care about anyone, in a famous socialist sense of compassion and solidarity. Last night, didn't you, Mr. Ábalos? They found out that it does matter, it matters to justice and the law. You don't care, because you despise the law and insist on alternating with criminals there and here. And Spain doesn't care about you either. I want to explain today why they are going to reform the Criminal Code, which is an important matter. You want to reform the Penal Code to benefit a specific person, a man who confuses dialogue with claudication before separatism; a man who says he is left-wing, when he promotes the most radical inequality; a man who has shown his absolute contempt for the Catalan constitutionalists, heroes of democratic resistance; a man who opposes the votes to the laws, as if there could be democracy without law; a man who considers the 1978 Constitution to be amortized. Yours is an ad hominem reform, yes, but that man isn't the one you're all thinking about, he's not Prisoner Junqueras, he's President Sánchez. Yours is an ad Sánchez reform, yes, and, at the service of Sánchez, you are capable of everything, of rehabilitating the Spanish Le Pen, of submitting to the Attorney General's Office and, even, of soiling the Supreme Court by attributing to it the intellectual authorship of its outbursts. It is further proof of the respect that justice and institutions deserve you. Mrs Calvo, what you are seeking is to erase the crime against democracy committed by the Government of Spain with a sedition convict. What you seek is the amnesty, that of the seditious and that of your accomplices, your amnesty. The nation takes note. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u24	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u25	Thank you, President. Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, when I read your question - the real one, without a trick - and you were asking me what the following decisions of the Council of Ministers were going to be to carry out President Sánchez's investiture program, I said: Oh, Mrs Alvarez de Toledo is going to do politics, realistically, wisely; loyal opposition, what you were once, a state party. They're not anymore, Mr. Married. What a disappointment! What would be yours without the speech you just made against Catalonia? ; in the background, against Catalonia. [[rumors]] [[Protests]] This is the electoral support you have in Catalonia: none. [[Applauds]] But I will say more to you, that you do not fall out of the mouth that is constitutionalist, the most constitutionalist, the only constitutionalist: in democracy, the government occupies the highest share of making decisions in a legislature, but to the opposition that you represent, the second group in this House also has the responsibility to decide. They decide to comply with the Constitution. Stop being a constitutionalist and become a constitutionalist. They complete it and renew the General Council of the Judiciary and the Constitutional Court, and do not hold them hostage to their confrontation. [[Applauds]] - OF THE IGNACIO GARRIGA VAZ DE CONCICAO, IN STATUS OF SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHO REALIZES GOVERNMENT POLICY? [[File number 180/000024]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u26	Question by Mr Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u27	Madam Vice-President, who really runs the government's policies?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u28	Thank you. First vice president.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u29	Thank you, Madam President. The person who obtained the confidence of this House, as required by the Constitution and commands democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u30	Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u31	Thank you. It is clear that his Government and Mr Sánchez are under the orders of a lackey, a fugitive from justice. Puigdemont orders, Torra abides and you execute. That is why you are receiving the highest honors in the Palau de la Generalitat. That is why you yield to each and every one of the demands of the coup government: rapprochement of the coup prisoners to Catalan prisons, conditional release of the coup prisoners, bilateral tables between an autonomous government and the national government; you agree in that federality, breaking the well and the common Finance of all the Spaniards; you accept forty-five of the forty-six demands that the fugitive and coward Puigdemont presented to Mariano Rajoy before going to the countries betraying the Schengen area; you will surely recover those fourteen articles of the statute revoked by the Constitutional Court and will also defend that constitutional reform only by recognizing that diversity and self-government of those communities kidnapped by separatism. You'll also continue to call Mr. Tora president and recognize him as a valid interlocutor, won't you? I remind you that you are an illegal president, disqualified by unanimity. But, of course, a lackey incapable of defending his country from separatists is also incapable of defending Spain at the international level. While in Spain you are Puigdemont puppets, on the outside you are Maduro puppets through your vice president Iglesias. [[Rumors]] If you have to send former President Zapatero to commend the hit woman responsible for crimes against humanity, it is done. Or if Minister Ábalos is to be sent to put on a red carpet and to unload forty suitcases that you do not know what they carry inside, it is also done. Or if the legitimate President Guaidó is to be despised, for example, by avoiding receiving him or reducing him in parliamentary office, it is also done. If you need to, you do everything. For this reason, gentlemen of the Government, Spain today is a weak nation, so weak that the nationalists divide it, that Belgium violates our sovereignty and mocks our courts, that the United Kingdom, for example, challenges us with Gibraltar or that Morocco uses such emigration as a political weapon. Spain is today a weak nation, but also with memory. I'll tell you something, Mr. Sánchez, all Spaniards know that even the best puppet can be hanged with its own threads. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u32	Madam First Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Garriga, you had not asked a question, and that is why you did not expect an answer either. You wanted a lever to launch here today your rally, a rally that is the speech you make constantly and that has to do with what the truth doesn't spoil your headline. It is to you that the truth of this country does not spoil the splendour of barbarity with which our ears are perturbed every day. [[Applauds]] But, look, listening to him and seeing the review he has made of the betraying countries of Europe, Morocco, Venezuela, I was imagining to you - God forbid - at the head of this country's foreign policy so that we would again be a unit of destiny in the universal alone, more alone than one and you destroying the prestige of Spain anywhere in the world. Good thing that's not gonna happen. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD SECOND VICESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE SECOND VICESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS CLEAR AND AGENDA 2030 THE PRIORITIES OF HIS MINISTRY WITH REGARD TO THE 'GENERAL DIRECTION OF PALANCA POLICIES'? [[File number 180/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u34	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Lord Churches, when the adversary does something right, it is of knights to recognize it, and you naming things have no rival: United We can, and you are separating; Confederal Group, and you are all fought; Otegi, man of peace. What would you call the 240,000 less social security affiliates of January, the self-employed who do not arrive at the end of the month, the farmers who see their future every day blacker? Maybe, people's government? They have created the General Directorate of Policy Palanca, that is, they have changed the sickle and the hammer by the lever. [[Laughter]] How do you explain this to a self-employed person who wakes up every day at six o'clock in the morning? Have you calculated that with the salary of your friend, the Director General of Palanca Policies, you can pay twenty years of the quota of an autonomous? Of course, you're the only ones who name things. The resolutions of the Electoral Board: tricks, according to Mrs. Lastra; the judgments of the judges: zancadillas, according to Mrs. Calvo; and the lies, according to Ábalos, are details. [[Laughter]] You're a teacher putting names, but let me try. His government would be: tapes, lies and Mr. Sánchez; Mr. Sánchez, lies and videotapes. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, is the Government clear on the priorities with regard to the Directorate-General for Policy Palanca? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u36	Mr. Second Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Don Teodoro, for your interest in lever policies. As you surely know, lever policies are policies created by the United Nations that aim to accelerate the development of the Sustainable Development Goals for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u38	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Without reading it, Mr Iglesias, seven of the seventeen objectives of the 2030 Agenda have to do with the countryside and agriculture. Is the Director General of Policy Palanca going to play any role in resolving the crisis with farmers? Are we going to receive more money from the CAP for having a general director of Palanca Policies? Remember, Mr. Iglesias, when you sat on the Sun Gate, in those famous circles where you listened to everyone? What a time! Now the circles are over, the door of the ministry closes to the farmers and does not listen to them. You are starting to look like Mr Sánchez: you are only right when you correct. Yesterday, at last, he received Asaja, COAG and UPA, after giving them leave the other day. You go from calling out protests on the street to leaving protestors on the street. You put a Google rate on Americans and Americans put a tariff on wine, oil and Spanish cheese. That is the real leverage effect of the Government of the ruin of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u40	Mr. Second Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Don Teodoro, I think you're very concerned about the Director of Palanca Policies, Mr. Gabriel Castañares. There was much talk of a profession he had: he was a postman, a profession as worthy as being the champion of throwing olive bones. [[Laughter]] I have a feeling that it bothers you that people have had to work to live, but I will tell you that Mr Castañares is also a graduate in Environmental Sciences, has a master's degree in Quality Management and Environment, has worked as a national expert in the European Commission on energy and has also held a position in charge of energy management and efficiency in Renfe. Surely, by throwing olive bones, you beat him; in competition, I fear not. I had an illusion this morning. I thought Mr Teodoro was very interested in sustainable development policies. Sustainable development policies set an agenda for 2030. His Government had committed itself at the United Nations in 2015 to the 2030 Agenda. The problem is that you changed the 2030 Agenda to the looting agenda. Because what we are actually discussing, Don Teodoro, is what we do with the money, and I suspect that you have never been interested in using public money to combat exclusion, inequality and to give solutions to the problem of the countryside. [[Applauds]] You, Don Teodoro, have preferred to use public money to build airports without planes, to help your friends through corrupt concessions and to use the Ministry of the Interior illegally to investigate the opposition. [[rumors]] That's the problem with the looting agenda, Don Teodoro. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGARITE PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER TO HAVE ACTED NEGLIGENTLY IN THE CASE OF SEXUAL EXPLOITATION OF LESS GUARANTEE PROTECTED IN BALEAIRS? [[File number 180/000029]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u42	Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u43	Thank you. The Council of Majorca recognizes sixteen cases of sexual exploitation in foster children, today a shock at new cases in Minorca that you had denied. 'The herd victim reported three rapes in the past year', 'Prostitution extends to all girls in some centers', 'We've reported more than three years ago, but the Council has taken no action'. These are some of the headlines, while you were silent to duo, from Childhood to Equality; United we are silent. The Left Government's response: to vote and to have them vote instead of their PSOE leaders to the commissions of inquiry. Who was he pointing at when someone has to fall? The Office of the Prosecutor is not involved in resolving the matter. For the Security Corps and Forces, these children are not a priority, she said. The Minister of the Interior has silenced these accusations. Don't you deny them? Do you therefore argue that the Government of Spain has acted negligently in the face of these accusations? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u44	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe that there are issues where democratic health would make it reasonable not to have a political dispute. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Ooooh!]] I think it's legitimate... [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are talking about prostituted girls in the Balearic Islands and you are taking a break in the House reveals many elements on a moral level. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that one of the 350 Members of this House, regardless of their ideology, has the slightest doubt that action must be taken to bring this shameful situation to an end. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that your own voters are outraged when you see that you are using an element like this to make the lowest policy. [[Protests]] You know perfectly well, ladies and gentlemen, that there is an investigation...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u46	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u47	...the prosecution's office. You also know that there is an investigation by the Ombudsman, you know that the first initiative of this vice-presidency, taking back what the United Nations has told us, is to make a law on the protection of children and adolescents that can combat all violence. By the way, all violence is all violence against children, which occurs within the family and also in the Catholic Church, which you forget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And protecting children against all violence, Your Honor, also means protecting them regardless of where they were born. I believe that on a subject like this we should all work together and maintain a minimum parliamentary dignity that the citizens of this country are asking of us. [[rumors]] [[A Member: Investigate.-A Member: Protect them]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u48	Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u49	Work together and block commissions of inquiry. Within the government of lies, feminism is just one more slogan. We already knew that for you there are women of first and second, also victims of first and second. It is not that feminism is not of all, it is that its feminism does not defend us all. Since the PP we don't believe that the rapist is you or the oppressive state the culprits, rapists and pimps. But here we talk about responsible, and the responsible for these girls is an Administration that must determine where the mistakes have been; that refuses to investigate, that you protect because they are left-wing. This is about politicizing him. These girls, yes, these are from the State, Mr. Iglesias, from the 'brother, I do believe you' to the 'brother, be prudent', while fighting to name a law of childhood of the People's Party. Do you know what women ask themselves?: Where are they? You can't see the women of Puemera. We already know why the vice president wondered what women deputies in this Congress are doing: the PP women denounce these facts, the left women shut up and bend their heads. [[Rumors.-Applause.-A lady MP: Bravo!]] Mr. Iglesias, there's no sign that's so quiet, there's no sign that's so loud... [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Prohens. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, what we just saw is very sad, the bench on the right.... [[Rumors]] Listen, ladies, there's nothing wrong with listening; listen to me. Seeing the bench on the right and the far right clapping ufanos as you laugh, Your Honor, when what we're talking about is prostituted girls, I think it's the most disgusting things we've seen in this House. [[protests.-Mr. García Aegean: Don't lie, don't lie!-Mr.Hispan Iglesias de Ussel utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr. Hispan, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u53	In politics, Your Honor, the confrontation on many issues is legitimate; on this issue, you demonstrate your profound indignity. [[Protests.-Applause.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED BORRAS MARY PABON, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO PROTECT THE LESS UNDER PUBLIC PROTECTION THAT ARE SUBJECT TO SEXUAL ABUSES? [[File number 180/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u54	Question by Mrs Mireia Borrás Pabón, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u55	What measures will the Government take to protect minors under public guardianship who have been sexually abused?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u56	Thank you. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u57	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. It is a pride for us that the first step this Vice President is going to take is precisely a child's law to protect children and adolescents from all kinds of sexual violence, from all kinds of sexual violence, from wherever it comes from, and those children were born where they were born. As his partner in the People's Party was told, it is essential that this country should end with some impunity at once. There are children who have suffered sexual abuse within the family and also within the Catholic Church who have not received the protection they deserve from public institutions. [[Protests]] In the specific case you tell me, this Government is in constant contact with all local and autonomous administrations which have the powers assigned, regardless of the political colour of those administrations. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to protecting the children of our country, there should be no political colour in this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u58	Mrs. Borras.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u59	Indeed, Mr. Churches, you should not, but you are not proving it that way. You should all be ashamed of yourselves. While criminalizing men with their absurd ideological laws, they have been juggling for weeks to avoid responsibilities and not to condemn the systematic abuse of minors in Palma de Mallorca. You, the PSOE and Podemos, have voted against opening a committee of inquiry and the only member of this Executive who has spoken on this has merely asked for caution: Mrs Montero. Check it out? What kind of caution? The same one they show when they incite hatred against VOX for not buying their dogmas? The left has been using personal misfortunes for decades to separate the Spaniards. For you there are first and second victims. Majorca's case is just one more test. I just hope, Mr. Iglesias, that this case doesn't make you as graceful as it was when I was joking with Boti García about your relationship with a minor student. Minors and their families deserve to get to the end of this matter, to the last consequences, and also to do so from the beginning, because we also want to know if any of these minors have been literally taken away by the State of their families, who may not want to lose their custody. Your refusal to open a commission of inquiry depicts the imposture of this government to which women really do not care - no matter how much you go out on 8 March or financier ideological chiringuites - or the minor, because how is it understood if not, Mr. Churches, that while you announce, as you say, the creation of a law of protection - your famous Rhodes law, of which you are so proud - at the same time are vetoing the investigation of a case as serious as this? For I am going to tell you: because the left is more concerned about hiding its shames than really watching for the good of the Spaniards. We have seen this recently in Compromís, where its leader, Monica Oltra, according to the prosecution, was concealing for four months the case of abuse of a minor by her ex-husband. [[Rumors]] I guess now... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, with sincerity and affection, I do not think I understand a few things about your speech. That we are talking about that there have been girls who have been prostituted in the Balearic Islands and that you say that in this country men are being criminalized, when what we are basically talking about is evil-born men who have been prostituted to those girls, perhaps you have a little bit out of place on the subject we are talking about. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, it is legitimate that you speak of your party and that, if you consider that your party is being attacked, you say so, but perhaps it is not legitimate to do so when we are talking about girls who have been prostituted. [[Protests]] And let me give you a thought: I believe that your voters are much better than you and that you will never understand that on an issue like this you intend to draw political results. Trying to get political results that girls have been raped is, Your Honor, disgusting, even for a fascist. [[Applauds]] Is OF THE GIFT OF ISMAEL CORTESS Gómez, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, can we in common have a common power of galicia, which forms the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and 2030 Agenda: What is the balance of the Government's work on this first social issue? [[File number 180/000032]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u62	Question by Mr Ismael Cortés Gómez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, what is your assessment of the government's social work in this first month? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u64	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. I think the government is doing well. [[Laughter]] We will not be a perfect government, we will surely make many mistakes, but I believe that some things that have been done in this country are worthy of mention. I believe that all citizens can be proud that the government has updated the pensions to the CPI; I believe that raising the salary to public workers has been a good decision, just as raising the inter-professional minimum wage to 950 euros has been a good decision, which in addition has not counted on anyone's opposition in this House. Declaring the climate emergency I think it has been a good decision; I believe that the fiscal justice measures that have been adopted, such as the famous tax on tax liability to technology or the one known as the Tobin tax, are of common sense, but I am particularly proud of a decision we made yesterday, which is the repeal of an article from the labour reform of the People's Party that facilitated firing a worker for being on justified medical leave. I have received some messages in the last few hours from people who told me that they have been working for many years and that they have had to look at the situation of choosing between going to work sick or having to lose their job. Any patriot should be proud that there is no longer any citizen in Spain who has to choose between going to work or not when he is sick to protect his job and his family. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u66	Mr. Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Vice-President. It is an injection of political illusion to listen to him and it is that, after a decade lost with the government of M. Rajoy, a government marked by an economic project based on the capitalism of friends, after a decade marked by cases of political corruption, such as the known plot Gürtel or the Punica, this new government opens a stage full of hope, full of future. We have already seen some clairvoyant signs that show the path of change. You mentioned some specific measures in your speech: raising of the interprofessional minimum wage, raising of pensions, declaration of the climate emergency or repeal of the possibility of dismissal on medical leave. We must recognize that it has been the social movements, the feminist movement, the ecological movement, the multiple tides in defense of pensions, health and public education and the citizen platforms in defense of the right to housing that have formulated and outlined the measures to get out of the crisis, which are now included in the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 that you lead. For its part, the People's Party during its term of office carried out policies of expansive austerity that severely damaged the pillars of the welfare state, the pillars of which depend on the true greatness of a country, and mention some: health, education, pensions and aid to dependency. This progressive government faces the great challenge of co-hering our citizens, basing the political agenda on defending the common good, defending collective interests and meeting shared needs. In the face of those who base their political agenda on the spread of hatred and the logic of persecution of the different, Mr Vice-President, you have my full confidence. I wish you luck, success and success in your new mandate. [[Applauds]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Transition and the Democratic Challenge: do you understand the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Transition and the Demogrative Challenge that can be considered a 'just transition' policy of destroying industrial jobs before creating other alternative jobs, and in simultaneously provoking the double emission of contaminant gases, exempt from CO2 payments, that cetranial cells are the subject of the so-called "terriggery"? [[File number 180/000020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u68	Question addressed to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Madam Vice President Fourth. In real life nothing happens by chance. The consequences of its sectarian commitment to win the global 'ecological miss' contest, disguised as a champion of the Paris Agreement against Climate Change, are an example of irresponsible policy that ruins citizens and triggers results that are contrary to what they want. You, Mrs Ribera, have accomplished this. [[Show a page of a newspaper]] Unemployment confirms the decline of industry in Asturias, the only sector that gets worse in a year. In his crazy career to promote himself and win this contest of radical ecology has already caused closures of finishing lines and a high furnace of Arcelor, which is in total emergency and loses more than 1000 jobs. Vesuvius closed and others like Alcoa in chapel. Thus up to 5000 jobs in the Asturian industry in a year, with the whole sector plunged into uncertainty. Closures of Lada and Soto de la Barca, destroying 280 jobs. And now we know that Spain fires the purchase of dirty electricity to Morocco as it closes its thermals. [[shows another page of a newspaper]] In other words, electricity that ceases to be produced in Asturias and Spain is produced in plants in Morocco that generate double the emissions of polluting gases and are free of CO2 payments. Consequences? Unemployment in Asturias, poverty for the population and pollution for the whole world, aggravating climate change on the planet. Only someone as irresponsible as you can boast of promoting the closure of a stable job-generating industry without having previously foreseen an alternative. Mrs Ribera, you, Mr Sánchez and your entire Government are a danger to Asturias and Spain and, in the face of this calamitous policy for employment, the economy, society and the environment, I ask you whether you consider yourself responsible for a just transition like the one that we Asturians have been suffering since you were in government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u70	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u71	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca, for that introduction which deserves to be included in the annals of introductions to the ministers of any government. It is obvious that I feel responsible for the part that has to do with the construction of alternatives together with people and it is also obvious that climate change must be something that had been passed on to you without knowing that there was the Paris Agreement, or whatever it seems to you, or the fact that there is a framework enshrined in the European Union that since 2010 makes us aware that there are certain environmental limitations to the use of coal that had to be met with regard to mining and with regard to thermal power plants. The Government of a State governed by law does not order any closure except as a result of non-compliance with a rule and following administrative procedure or judicial judgement, which has not occurred. Nor does the Government of a State governed by law make it necessary to keep industrial or business activities open to loss. That's right, the government of a responsible state, a responsible government, cares about people and cares about generating alternatives before the calendar falls on us; and 2018 and 2020 fell on us before we got to the government. But it seems that this was not part of their concerns, because there was something I did not want to see even on the television, which was this issue of climate change and the European Union's obligations with regard to emissions. Since then, we've been working. We have asked the companies holding these power plants to make proposals to us, by the way, some of them very interesting. We work with the unions, we work with the municipalities and we work with the Government of the Principality to generate those alternatives, some of which are identified. Things don't happen overnight, and that's why it's important to anticipate, to stop demagogy, and to stop arousing people who are suffering with lies of the caliber of which you pose. Thanks to the initiatives of the Government, things that should have happened for a long time are gradually being regenerated and reactivated. So I ask you to put yourself to work in favour of the workers and the Asturians instead of continuing to tell lies. By the way, cables that, as I said on another occasion, are not built overnight; both the Minister of the Economy and I are in charge of sending a letter to the Commissioner of the European Union asking that, please... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u72	Thank you, Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA ELVIRA RODRIGUEZ HERRER, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHAT SCHEDULE DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONTemplATE FOR THE PREPARATION OF THE NEXT BUDGETS? [[File number 180/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u73	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mrs María Elvira Rodríguez Herrer of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u74	Thank you, President. Minister, last day 11 announced the government's willingness to approve the draft budget for 2020 over the summer for the Congress or to start in September. That is why I am asking you the recorded question which, in case you have not noticed, is of normality and responsibility. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u75	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Indeed, this Government has begun to take the first steps in the presentation of the budget, a realistic scenario with which we have made the forecasts for the next four years, with a realistic spending ceiling and a new achievable deficit target. Therefore, an effective budgetary policy to make a real policy that responds to the everyday problems that citizens have. Combining the fulfilment of our budgetary stability, our commitments to Brussels, with the recovery of workers' rights and progress in the well-being of citizens are the priorities of this budget, a budget that I hope can soon come to the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u77	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u78	Thank you. Minister, in the tables presented to us showed a rachitic growth of the Spanish economy, a disappointing decline in unemployment and the figures of your Government or your Government's intentions to maintain the public deficit beyond 2023. Vice-President Calviño told us last Thursday that the figures presented included structural and tax reforms - not to mention those - that made them possible; certainly not those of the taxes they passed two days ago. Almost simultaneously, Vice-President Iglesias presented strong spending measures and even a new social security benefit incompatible with the system's one-size-fits-all fund, which was missing from our pension system. Finally, they are noted that much remains to be done. You said in the press conference that you would not bring the 2020 budgets to this House until you were sure of your support, and you naturally advanced dates that make them coincide with the dates on which you would have to be about to present those of 2021, which must meet all the transparency and control requirements in force. When do you think the 2020 budgets will be approved? How are you going to influence the 2021s? Are we going to subtract from our legislative work the capacity for analysis and debate that deserves the most important annual law in democracies, without any justification besides that of having a government with minimal support? Are we going to be the same for 2021 or have they already taken the taste of extensions? It's all the same to you, Minister. That is why I have asked this question, so that it can tell us from now on how you intend to fulfil your constitutional obligation as a government in budgetary matters. By the way, in this area, will they comply with the principle of institutional loyalty and will they pay the autonomous communities the EUR 25 billion they owe for VAT? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u79	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Rodríguez, it is surprising that the realism of the budgets is being questioned from the People's Party when you have never presented a budget that meets the stability objectives that you had committed to Brussels. You made for 2018 a budget that raised pensions and did not have the correlation in pension spending. During the following years, 2018 and 2019, it was necessary to really make budgetary capacity to try to cover committed expenditure that did not have budgetary rigour to ensure its coverage. Therefore, I do not think they have the condition to give lessons in budgetary rigour. I would also like to say, Mrs Rodríguez, that it is clear that this Government is committed to the recovery of workers' rights and is making it compatible that this recovery also generates employment and consolidates our country's economic growth. Mrs Rodríguez, I think you are a good example of what the People's Party has to do, and I sincerely say this to you, I think you are a hope within the People's Group that you can actually help the opposition of the People's Party to fulfil its obligation, which is to allow the government to govern and you, with your proposals and contributions, can make a modulation of the budgetary or general policy that drives this government. Therefore, Mrs Rodríguez, I encourage you to continue along a path that allows us to discuss, dialogue, regenerate the organs; in short, to each one the fulfilment of his task, to each one his responsibility because it is so important to build Spain from the building of policies as to do so from the role that the citizens have given to each one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u81	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERJON, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW ARE THEY GOING TO START IMPLOYING EFFECTIVE MEASURES FOR THE PRICE CONTROL OF ACQUILERS? [[File number 180/000033]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u82	Question to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ábalos, you may be surprised because it is not very recent in this House, that being a control session of the Government of Spain will ask you a question that has to do with problems that happen in our land and that affect our people. When does the Government intend to implement and develop measures for the intervention and control of rental prices? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u84	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u85	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Indeed, the problem of housing is a major problem that we have in this country and the Government views it not as a market asset merely, as it has been seen in recent years, but as a basic right and pillar of the welfare state. Note that in Spain we are investing in recent years around 0.11% of GDP, while the European average is 0.57% and France is 0.67%. Therefore, we are on an urgent issue. We are going to do this on the basis of the investment agreements reached with the United Nations. We can basically propose, on the one hand, a social emergency action and, on the other hand, a medium- and long-term strategy, based on the increase in the supply of rented housing, especially with regard to social rental. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u86	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u87	Thank you. Mr Ábalos, I am convinced - and you show me with the answer - that we share the concern. Spain is the OECD country in which families devote most of their income to housing. A young person spends an average of 40% of his salary to be able to have a roof and so we are surprised that only 18% of those under the age of 30 have been able to emancipate. None of this we heard yesterday in the debate about the possibilities of forming a family. It is not just a question of social injustice, it is also a question of deep economic stress. The centrality of the Spanish real estate model leads us to an ecologically predatory, socially failed, economic model that increases segregation and inequalities and which, in addition, detracts a lot from the productive economy and concentrates it in sectors of low added value and which produce very little employment and low quality employment. In Spain we are accepting that farmers charge very little for their products and that the market has to intervene to protect their work. We are accepting that the energy market must be involved. Why do we not accept the same for the housing market, which guarantees a constitutionally enshrined right? You have it in the government agreement, it even appears in your election program. I know that the intervention of rental market prices is not the exclusive solution to the problem of housing but it is a tourniquet that slows down a bleed for those who can't wait any longer. Then you have to regulate the apartments for tourist use, you have to mobilize empty housing, which we are record in Europe in empty housing. It is not a problem of lack of housing, but of lack of housing in the service of the right to housing. A large public housing park needs to be built because we are once again on the line in Europe in these areas. You know as well as I do that the institutions are to correct inequalities, to correct abuses and to guarantee the rights of the most humble. You cannot be content with angering the right because, as you are angry with everything, we could stay the same and do absolutely nothing. I'm not going to talk to you about terrible communist paradises, I'm talking about New York, California, Paris, Berlin, Austria since 1917 or Denmark for forty years. In all these countries, the rental market has been involved in guaranteeing the right to housing and everywhere with good results. If you hesitate to change the Spanish real estate model, you hesitate to build...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u88	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u89	Thank you, President. Mr Errejón, we share the diagnosis, now it is up to us to enter into a series of dialogues, debates, consultation between the members of the House, also professional organizations, citizens. Anyway, we have to try to get the answer right. We tried, in the previous Government, to approach this issue through the Royal Decree-Law of 1 March, which the People's Party challenged before the Constitutional Court, because it understood that there was no need or urgency, which fortunately the Court did not consider. In that decree we established twenty measures that gave greater security and guarantee to the tenants, greater certainty, and limited the increase of contracts to the CPI. We also approve the creation of a rental price index, and I have to say that fortunately we will publish it by the end of March. This is a big step forward because it's going to give us reliability, robustness in the data, you're going to use census data, not survey data, and that's going to be an indicator for prices. In any case, we are going to work on the offer of affordable new housing, to improve incentives and support for owners and tenants, and to facilitate a regulation that limits the increase of rents in stressed areas in rents, in certain areas, as I say, with short-term and temporary measures that can be taken by the municipalities. Thank you. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THRISTIAN MARIA MORALEJA GOMEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT, even with a notable delay, a complete solution has been given to the problems of electronic enterprises? [[File number 180/000030.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u90	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Tristana María Moralesja Gómez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u91	President, Minister, first of all I would like to thank the efforts being made by the Alcoa works council with determination to defend its jobs in the face of the attack of socialist policies on employment. Since they arrived at the Government of that country almost two years ago, the minister has been working to stop strategic sectors of our country, and what is worse, they have not provided solutions. You have just submitted a proposal for an electro-intensive status, and after more than a year of waiting for it does not convince anyone or satisfy you, only you and your partners. It was in April last year when Mr Sánchez in A Coruña said that the statute was approved. We didn't know anything about him until now, and believe me, once we met, it was better not to have. They have put forward a proposal that does not satisfy companies either, since the price of megawattage/hour will be around 49 euros, far from 35 or 40 euros demanded by companies. They have submitted a proposal conditional on the general budgets of the State. What are you trying to do? Chasing us? In short, Minister, do you believe that the wait has been worth it or, as we all think, is a bad solution that does not fix it and puts the future of 5,000 families at risk? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u92	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u93	Thank you, President. I'm sorry to turn your back on you, Mrs. Moraleja. It will agree with me on the importance and need for a framework of stability and energy price certainty to ensure the competitiveness of the electro-intensive industry, and the statute is a rigorous instrument to address it. For the first time, the status of an electric intensive consumer is defined and certified, measures are offered to improve its competitiveness and commitments and obligations are established. We hope to have a broad parliamentary consensus to adopt this much-needed measure for our industry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u94	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Moraleja.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u95	You, Minister, continue to play with all the Spaniards, everything is worth it. In this proposal we went from almost 200 beneficiaries from all over Spain to 600, more than 400 benefiting companies. But what a coincidence!, the most benefited are Catalonia and the Basque Country, those territories where you need support. They do not want to differentiate a company like Alcoa, in Galicia, from other companies that are big consumers, as you well know, but that have nothing to do with it. In 2017 we reached 500 million euros for many less companies. Now you intend to reach 262 for triple. Do you still consider the problem solved? You are unable to see reality and we know it well in Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria. They're already organizing to create a northwest front. The other day an ex-partner of yours said something very sensible that should make you and your partner, the vice president, think. He said someone has to pay for the green transition, and no one's asked who's going to pay for it. In Spain you have already decided, that it be many companies and that it be in areas like the Mariña Lucense and As Pontes, but I hope you can sleep quiet as your president. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Moraleja. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u97	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you're always late. When they ruled, they promised an energy system for large consumers. It was done by former Minister Soria, who promised that on 1 January 2013 there would be a system that would guarantee the competitiveness of the six Spanish plants of the Alcoa company. Do you know where he did it? In the Mariña Lucense, in the plant that Alcoa has in Lugo. They had more than five years to approach him. And what did they do? They did not do absolutely - as always -, ladies and gentlemen. You knew that the interruptibility mechanism had the days counted by the European Commission's rules and did nothing. For this government, the electro-intensive industry is a priority. The statute provides certainty and legal certainty, and guarantees the competitiveness of more than 600 companies, the maintenance of 300,000 jobs in various sectors, which play a key role in economic, social and territorial vertebration. It is not a statute for a single company, for a single sector or for a single territory; it is a statute for the whole of the electro-intensive industry. Your Honor, tell Mr Feijóo that in Galicia 31 companies will benefit from the approval of this statute, and that we want his loyalty and collaboration. Also tell him not to use Alcoa's workers to make his election campaign. I'd like you to tell us what Mr. Feijoo did for the Galician industry. I'm going to tell him, and most Galicians know it: nothing. [[Protests]] In conclusion, Your Honor, the statute is an urgent instrument for industry. Tell me, and above all, tell the Galicians: Are they going to support this measure that Galicia needs or are they going to keep up with it, as they always do? Your Honor, stop blocking and lying, and make politics useful. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN CAPDEVILA I STEVE, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT PROVIDED FOR THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO COMBAT MOROSITY BETWEEN ENTERPRISES? [[File number 180/000036]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u98	Question by Mr Joan Capdevila i Esteve, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u99	Good morning. Minister, according to data from the multi-sectoral platform against late payment, the average payment period for IBEX 35 companies is one hundred and 169 days, doubling, almost triple the average payment period established by law, which is 60 days; 169 days versus 60. Today, the above-mentioned platform will present up-to-date data, I fear at all flattering. Madam Minister, do you and your Government agree that lateness is a scourge, an unjust cause for the liquidation of viable businesses, a burden on any economy that is valued as healthy and competitive? As such, what action does the Spanish Government plan to take to combat late payment between companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u100	Thank you. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u101	Thank you, President. Mr Capdevila, I am glad that you ask me this question, because we share with you and your group, and I would say with most of the parliamentary groups, the need to take measures to combat lateness, which affects many of our self-employed and our small and medium-sized enterprises. The 2030 SME Strategic Framework, which we adopted in April last year, includes mechanisms to reduce late payments. We hope to have the consensus of this House to develop them throughout the legislature. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u102	Mr. Capdevila.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm glad you're giving me this answer. We celebrate the Pauline conversion of his group, because the erratic path of the PSOE to this problem is legendary. Fortunately, its government partners have already shown their support for these measures in the process of lawmaking, with the same aim of the ancestry of the legislature. We hope that they will now truly join the fight against lateness. I have already told you that the Republican Parliamentary Group will present a bill to this effect this morning in this House. It is very simple, it is a question of vetoing the payment of invoices beyond two months and punishing non-compliance with deadlines with genuinely dissuasive fines. First of all, it is about eliminating the false and abusive pact between the parties, which is what turns the 60-day limit into wet paper. It is a question, Madam Minister, of preventing the large company from being unduly financed at the expense of SMEs at all costs. It is a question, Minister, that some stop lifting their blinds at the back of others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u104	Thank you. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u105	Thank you, President. As you know, there has been a wide debate in this House in past legislatures on the need to put in place measures to combat late payment in commercial operations. I would like to acknowledge the work done by all the parliamentary groups that have at the time put forward proposals to improve the status of payment deadlines for SMEs. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you that in this parliamentary term we need to look carefully at what measures we can take and what regulation we need to amend in order to be more effective in reducing payment times without hindering economic activity. Although there is a regulation, the reality is that there is still a lot of room to improve payments between companies. The average payment period is 82.3 days, according to the follow-up bulletin prepared by Cepyme. [[Mr. Capdevila i Esteve makes negative gestures]] It is a clear element that hinders access to finance and reduces competitiveness for our companies. I believe that we agree on two fundamental aspects that we will address in the State SME Council. The first, the establishment of a sanctioning regime; and the second, the development of an arbitration system of agile and effective delay. Mr Capdevila, this is an important issue for SMEs and I am committed, in coordination with other ministerial departments, to addressing the most effective formula for reforming Law 3/2004 and establishing measures to combat late payment and incorporating these mechanisms. I am sure that these measures will have a majority agreement of the parliamentary groups and in particular of their own. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? IN THE CHAIR: MRS JOSUNE GOROSPE ELEZCANO Vice-President [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u106	Questions to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mrs Josune Gorospe Elezcano, from the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u107	Eskerrik asko, president. Minister, on the other hand. The Council of Europe has recently published its latest report on the situation of minority languages in Europe. The expert report, which is not suspected of being abertzales, once again questions the involvement of the State Administration with regard to the Basque country and requires a greater effort. Among its urgent recommendations is the need to encourage the use of euskera in the State Administration in Euskadi. Hence our question: What measures have they taken, what plan do they have to encourage the use of Basque?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Gorospe, as you well know, all State institutions are obliged to protect and respect our linguistic heritage. In this case, the AGE in its field is also committed to its application in those territories that have an official language such as the Basque Country, and in that we will carry out the action in this period. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u110	Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u111	Minister, once again a 'pasapalabra', what the State has historically done in question of linguistic normalization in the State Administration with implantation in Euskadi. These recommendations are not new, this report is made periodically and they always repeatedly tell you the same thing again. Recently, they have made a public offer of employment where there is no language requirement. What measures have they taken to ensure that people who are working also learn and attend to in Basque? What budget do you devote to this? They're crumbs to get out of the way, makeup to disguise the situation. In the State, minister, there is no main language, Spanish, and other secondary languages; there are different languages and people and all of them have the same linguistic rights. Plurinationality, plurilingualism, diversity; they are words that have so far been condemned to ostracism because they were not in the political lexicon of previous governments. It is also up to you, Minister, that now the state can look with all its nuances in linguistic matters. That is why we ask you again whether you intend to have those recommendations that are included in the Council of Europe's report actually put in place and the State Administration also gives people living in Basque the opportunity to speak in Basque.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u112	Thank you. Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u113	Madam President, thank you very much. Mrs Gorospe, as you have said, our country has ratified the European Charter for Regional and/or Minority Languages, within the framework of the Council of Europe, which means an evaluation and monitoring process. We are aware that we must continue to improve, ladies and gentlemen, because for this Government the protection of the co-official languages is a duty, and it is a duty because it is so marked by our Spanish Constitution and it is also a right of citizenship. I would therefore like to say that in order to implement this policy we have a Council of Official Languages. In any case, Mrs Gorospe, this Government and the previous one - since Pedro Sánchez is President - have taken decisive steps in this direction. Recognition and protection of co-official languages should never be a requirement for access to the public service. A merit, yes, and in this the agreements with the unions that Mrs Batet made when she was Minister of Territorial Policy, in the Official Council of Languages that was held in Bilbao in December 2018 - by the way, it was the first time that it was held outside Madrid - are incardinated. I would like to share with this House that, within a reasonable time, this minister intends to reconvene that official council and to do so outside, in another community where there is also a co-official language. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, in that report, the impact and evaluation of policies is very important in that monitoring for this minister to see what needs to be improved alongside the actions already taken. I suppose you are aware that INAP is also doing learning work in this regard. I think that is the way forward, but I am announcing the development of a joint action plan to move forward. This is the idea that we have of reflective modernization, Your Honor, to continue to advance in the wealth, in the linguistic heritage that we have, and to do so to the extent that we can, as a merit always in the access to the Public Service and, in the area of AGE, which is my responsibility. Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? Ms Isabel Pozuta Fernández, of the parliamentary group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, which forms the Vice-President of the Government and Prime Minister of the Presidency, relations with the Courts and democratic memory: Will the self-government of Navarra and our historical competence in the field of civil law, withdrawing the use of unconstitutionality to the law 21/2019, of 4 April, of modification and updating of the complementation of the civil law for Navarra or of the new law? [[File number 180/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u114	Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u115	Thank you, President. Minister, is the Government of Spain going to respect Navarra's self-government and our historical competence in civil law, withdrawing the unconstitutionality appeal to the Foral Law on Amendment and Updating of the Compilation of the Foral Civil Law of Navarra or Fuero Nuevo?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u116	Thank you. Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u117	Madam President. Mrs Pozueta, this government will respect and promote self-government within the existing constitutional legal framework.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u118	Thank you. Mrs. Pozueta.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u119	This decision, which in our view only undermines Navarra's legislative capacity, attacks one of the demands of the self-government of Navarra, our own civil law. Once again, we try to use the Spanish Constitution as a uniforming tool, thus cutting Navarra's ability to legislate and decide on our own legal framework. We believe that the appeal lodged by the Constitutional Court questions important aspects which represent a great deal of progress in the field of civil law, in which Navarra already had exclusive competence. We understand that issues of payment or assignment of loans are necessary instruments to deal with the harmful policies of the bank, and I repeat: to deal with the harmful policies of the bank. It is, therefore, at the least paradoxical that a new Government that defines itself as a progressive is attacking laws that have been adapted to reality to defend the rights of citizens. This decision also takes place a few days after President Sánchez boasted of the dialogue character of his Government and the President of Navarre herself, María Chivite, expressed the need for a Government in the State that understood the self-government of Navarre. It doesn't look like you're taking this into account. Although the Navarra Government's statements on one issue attempt to shift the idea that it is possible to reach an agreement to withdraw this remedy, it has already been admitted to the Constitutional Court. We consider it very serious that the first decision of this Government towards the shipwrecks and shipwrecks was to attempt to nullify laws that the forces of Navarra of change pushed to expand the rights of citizens. Please note that the absolute majority of the Navarro Parliament decided to do so, including your party and also including the part of Podemos. I'd like to pick up your commitment today to resolve this situation...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pozueta, I would like to comment on the fact that the application for unconstitutionality on the New Forum at the time indicated is due to a question of procedural deadlines and not to a question of political will. As you know, the way to the extra-trial agreement is open until there is a sentence, and I assure you that I would have liked my first Council of Ministers not to have had to bring the appeal, but the deadlines were there and what I showed to President Chivite was the possibility that the way to the agreement was always open. However, this Government has shown that dialogue is a fundamental element in political action and, moreover, the result of that desire for dialogue, as you well know, Mrs Pozueta, first of all, the interposition covered 18 articles, and it has been limited to 9, so dialogue has already begun. The first question is that the will of this Government to dialogue cannot be questioned in the matter that I have just referred to, because this Government since Mr Sánchez is President is of a strong will and is an advocate of dialogue. Concrete proof of this: during the previous short term we have reached with Pedro Sánchez as president 63 agreements in 19 months, compared to the 37 PP agreements in 23 months in the XII Legislature. These are concrete and real data. In any case, let me tell you that this government is extremely sensitive to social rights. Indeed, out of the six disillusionments of the Ministry of Territorial Policy, 5 have had to do with housing and 1 with health, so this issue is also credited. In any case, what I offer you is to continue exploring the possibility of agreement, but the framework we have cannot be other than the block of constitutionality. Is the deal possible? Yes, if we give up some issues and stick to the constitutional legal framework. That's what I've offered President Chivite and this minister with all her team is willing to sit down and continue to negotiate. In any case, dialogue, understanding and open-mindedness, and when dialogue cannot fix everything, it is true that in a State like ours, jurisdictional disputes must arise in the courts. I wish I didn't and the deal was possible. This is my determined will, but in any case you will understand that the current constitutional framework is to which we all owe it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA TERESA LÓPEZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL YOU STOP FOUNDING THE GOVERNMENT ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION? [[File number 180/000022]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u122	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by María Teresa López Álvarez, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u123	Thank you. Good morning. Mr. Marlaska, there are millions of sub-Saharan immigrants who gather money to pay the mafias who trade with their lives and who trade with their despair. Will the government stop encouraging illegal immigration?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u124	Thank you. Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u125	Mrs López Álvarez, first of all, allow me to turn to the screen, even if I turn my back on it, so that I can be heard and answered by Mr Marlaska in solidarity terms, as it can be answered by the Government. The answer is clear: not only the Spanish Government, I would say that no government, at least European, under any circumstances encourages irregular immigration, under any circumstances. What he does is he tries to prevent it from happening. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u126	Mrs. Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u127	What needs to be done is to stop giving illegal immigrants who violently jump the fence of Ceuta and Melilla or those who arrive at our shores exceptional treatment. His strategy of political marquetin with the Open Arms, the Aquarius or his substitute, the Ocean Viking only provokes a dilemma and it is not that of rescue or let them die, it is that of enhancing misfortune, that of exponentially increasing the problem of immigration, that of giving more strength to the mafias and that of continuing to put the lives of these immigrants at risk. What is most outrageous is that you use the concept of humanitarian reasons to welcome Africa, and thus help the lucrative business of illegal immigration. The more efficient the NGOs that rescue the most cruel immigrants will be the Mafia offerings. You must put an end to the support you offer those undesirables who trade with people. End point to funding those questionable NGOs that only play with human misery backed by ideological merchandise progresses on that we cannot let them die and that tell those immigrants that there will always be a boat that rescues them in the Mediterranean. [[applause]] I encourage you to end this lucrative illegal immigration business, because life - life - has no price and the booming mafias acquire, over the years, more power thanks to that market of hope in a better life to be pocketed thousands of euros per month. Let's end the widespread idea that Spain is the solution to sub-Saharan hunger and so we will stop sending the message to all of Africa that Spain is the only way out. Stop investing the money of all Spaniards in removing the concertinas. Build a wall, the concrete wall and the legal wall. By the way, let our state security forces defend themselves in front of massive entrances and never leave them with riot-proof material in the vans again, because our police and our civilian guards... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez. Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u129	Allow me, Mrs López Álvarez, to begin with a geographical reflection. Australia has little irregular immigration, but Australia is 7500 kilometres from Indonesia. How far are we from Morocco through the Strait? How far is the Canary Islands from the Sahara coast? Do the math. Europe has a geographical limitation that does not have other countries. Even so, and that is important, in Spain in 2019 we have halved the arrival of irregular immigration by cost compared to the previous year. I'm going to give you another data, because that's flows. In terms of stocks, of irregular people, the best estimates from the Pew Center for Economic Research show that Spain has 15% of irregular immigrants compared to what Germany, the United Kingdom and 30% compared to the level of Italy. These are important figures. You've been talking about humanitarian aid. Here the reference is Pope Francis, of whom I will read a sentence: Migrant refugees, displaced persons and victims of trafficking have become the emblem of exclusion because, in addition to enduring difficulties for their very condition, they are often the subject of negative judgments, since they are considered responsible for social ills. The attitude towards them is a sign of alarm that warns us of the moral decay that we face if we continue to give space to the culture of discard. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u130	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u131	Before we start the interrogations, from the Bureau we want to have a meaningful memory of Don Fernando Morán López who died at his ninety-three years. The Congress of Deputies feels his death, recognizes his work for Spain and sends his affection to his family, his friends and his colleagues. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, applause is on the table.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u132	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, on the measures to be taken by the Government in view of Morocco's delimitation of its maritime border affecting the Canary Islands and Western Sahara. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u133	Thank you, Madam President. 'For many years we never imagined that the ownership of our sea would be questioned; the sea of our intimate experiences, that of the historical becoming, which we encompassed with our gaze from almost any point of each island, the one that comforts us and accompanies us. ...the future is open.' Victorian Rivers. Madam Minister, whoever was a senator for the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands was doing this emotional reflection as a promoter of the debate: Canary Islands or archipelago, on the ownership of Spanish waters situated in the geographical area of the Canary Islands, the Canary Sea, and on the delimitation of the median with Morocco. This debate has been promoted by the Canarian nationalists and has been present throughout the legislature since the adoption of the Third Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1982. Initiatives promoted by canarian nationalist deputies and senators - since Luis Mardones in 1988, who questioned the then Minister of Relations with the Courts on the definition of the exclusive economic zone and the median one with Morocco - there have been many, initiatives to try to unlock a matter that was never resolved either by the governments of the PP or by those of the PSOE. The answer was almost always the same - intercomilado -: The delimitation of maritime spaces depends on factors of international policy. And - intercomilado -: The delimitation of Spanish waters from the Canarian coast also affects the territory of Western Sahara, so it does not seem possible to proceed to a stable and effective delimitation until the conflict affecting this area has been resolved. The socialists blocked with their vote a bill presented by Miguel Ángel Barbuzano, Senator in 1993, and almost two years later he tried again, in 1995, but met again with the socialist opposition. In 1988, it was Victoriano Ríos who presented a motion to delimit the economic zone, and on this occasion, with José María Aznar in the Government, it was the PP who opposed it. He tried again in 2000 but again the People's Party stopped him. The turning point occurs in February 2001. The publication in the BOE of the resolution on Repsol's application for nine permits for the investigation of hydrocarbons off the coast of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura implies the full recognition of the exclusive economic zone to the east of the Canary Islands by the Government of Spain. The authorization to Repsol was published in the BOE in December of that year and a public exchange of accusations between Spain and Morocco on the ownership of the waters in which prospecting was planned began. This controversy, however, did not occur in 2014 when Repsol executed the research permit in the marine subsoil. On February 27, 2003, it was a milestone for the Canary Coalition in the Senate and especially for the Canary Islands. On that day, at the Senate plenary session, the entire procedure that the Canarian nationalists had carried out over eight years to be assumed by the General Courts was completed by the need to carry out the delimitation of the Canary Islands Archipelago community, both the islands and the sea included in the plot of straight baselines that unites the most salient points of the islands, following the general configuration of the archipelago. A milestone that did not end successfully, as the dissolution of the Courts in 2004 caused the same to fall after an endless number of extensions while governing the PP. And it was not until 2010 that the dream so often pursued by Victoriano Ríos was approved, with the adoption of a bill on the maritime spaces of the Canary Islands signed by the speaker, this deputy, and my colleague José Luis Perestelo, Law 44/2010. And later, following the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court that the territorial delimitation of an autonomous community must be made in its statute of autonomy, that was our purpose until the inclusion of the Canary waters in the new statute approved in October 2018. The debate is first and foremost a debate on the territory of the Canary Islands, land and maritime territory, which is Canary Islands as an archipelago since the end of the 15th century. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we must contextualize the unwritten dispute that Spain has with Morocco for the delimitation of the maritime median and its respective exclusive economic zones, a latent conflict that moves slowly, sometimes stops and sometimes activates. Why has it been activated again? For several reasons, among which it does not help that the President of the Government has forgotten that Morocco is the first country of forced visit, after taking office in the Presidency... Forgive me, but I have a lock... [[Pause]] A neighbouring country with which history is shared. In 2017, the Moroccan government released a proposal to amend... two laws that affected... [[pause]] [[Pause]] I don't think I'm gonna be able to go on. As I said, two laws affecting the strategic economic zone and the territorial waters surrounding the Canary Islands. [[Pause]] Do you understand me? [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u134	Excuse me, Mrs. Oramas, would you like a candy? [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u136	You've got time to stop, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u137	I'm gonna finish it. The problem we have, Minister, is that the median with Morocco has not been fixed and Morocco, unilaterally, in that proposal which, after your visit, has completed the parliamentary phase in the Moroccan Parliament, also appropriates the waters of the Sahara. As you know, the position of the Government of Spain has always been consensual, in line with the UN. This sea also has an economic exploitation: it knows that there are hydrocarbons, telurium, cobalt..., and in this sense, from the Canary Islands, we demand the Government to be proactive, not to wait for Morocco's unilateral decision but simply to set a timetable with Morocco for the part affecting the Canary Islands with Morocco. With regard to the Sahara, we express our concern and want to know whether the Government of Spain is still in the line of defending that there cannot be an expansion and a policy of fait accompli of appropriation of the sea by Morocco. We were very concerned about the information that came out yesterday that the consulate of El Aaiún would be closed. There are 12,000 Spaniards of Saharan origin who would be a thousand kilometers away from being able to do the work, including thousands of children. That also coincides with your visit to Morocco. From the Canary Islands we are not alarmists, but we are deeply concerned and believe, moreover, that it has not helped anything that Pedro Sánchez's first official trip, for the first time in thirty years of democracy, has not been to Morocco, as all the presidents of Spain, the PP and socialists did. In that regard, you say that there is no need to worry, that this cannot be a unilateral decision and that, if not, Spain will go to the international courts. It's not about that. At the moment there is a policy of facts carried out by the Moroccan Parliament; as I said, it has been approved by the Lower House, it has been approved by the Senate and the king's signature is simply left. Sit down, Government of Spain, give it priority. In addition, I would like you to be very clear about the position of the Government of Spain with the Sahara, because I am sure that its partners in Podemos, PNV, Bildu or Esquerra will not share that the subject of the Sahara is left to a policy of fait accompli. We want for the Sahara a just, lasting and mutually accepted solution by the parties, which the United Nations has been seeking since 1991. I'll finish with a question, Minister. Our aim is for the Government to close the agreement on the Middle Sea with Morocco and, until this happens, our neighbour must respect the status quo and avoid legislation of his own in contravention of international maritime law. We expect a convincing response, Minister, and I announce that we will present a motion that will guarantee - this is an important issue - Spanish sovereignty over its maritime spaces and the territorial integrity of the Canary Islands. Spain must therefore immediately open a diplomatic channel with the Kingdom of Morocco to prevent our neighbours from continuing to give effect to such legislation on the sea. And if necessary, if they do not reverse the facts consummated on a friendly and diplomatic basis, it is imperative that Spain lodge a formal complaint with the UN for non-compliance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Montego Bay Convention. The Canaries are not alarmists, the media are not alarmists. After his visit to Morocco, the Moroccan Government continued with all the parliamentary proceedings. I haven't been able to read everything I had prepared for you because I've been speechless, but of course I'll keep raising my voice before the Spanish government, because when you say: I'm going to visit our canary friends to reassure them, what our friends use for people from another country: our American friends, our Moroccan friends, our French friends... We didn't like that of our canary friends, minister. This is sovereignty of the territory of this country, defense of the Canary Islands Statute, where the sea between the islands is already defined. On the question of the Sahara, I would like to know whether the Government of Spain is still in that position. I would also like to ask you why you have left 12 000 Spaniards of Saharan origin unassisted by the closure of the offices in El Aaiún, where all the colonial and personal archives are - you know - all of them. Every time Saharan children come to this country, there are permits, visas and you are going to prevent those children, mothers and families - it is impossible for them to travel a thousand kilometres - from having that authorization to come to this country at the time of the terrible summer of the Sahara, to those health holidays. That's why I'm asking you the same thing. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Oramas, as you know, the delimitation of maritime areas is governed by international law. The rules in this area are contained in the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. This Convention regulates the right of each State to establish the maritime spaces or zones contained in this Convention, which are territorial sea, contiguous zone, exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, as well as the maximum extent that each of these spaces may have. The convention, international law, also establishes how and on the basis of what criteria the delimitation of these maritime zones should be made when the coasts of two States are adjacent or located in front of each other and overlap between them. The Convention also establishes mechanisms for the settlement of disputes in accordance with law. The establishment of the different maritime spaces is usually a long process and with a strong technical component that is delayed over time. The convention does not state how each State should define its spaces, whether one in one or in a global way in a single legislative process. In short, it leaves the time and modality to the interests of each State. Spain has maritime borders with five States: Portugal, France, Italy, Morocco and Algeria. Most of these delimitations are still pending. Spain has not published a law establishing its exclusive economic zones in all its seas. To date, it has only been declared since 1997, when Spain ratified the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, a fisheries protection zone and, subsequently, an exclusive economic zone in the north-western Mediterranean by a royal decree of 2013. In this area, the exclusive economic zones with France and Algeria remain to be delineated. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the establishment of maritime areas is a long process in itself, as is the delimitation of those areas with neighbouring countries, if any. However, in the absence of such a delimitation, which often involves complex negotiations, there is no legal vacuum. The convention establishes limits and criteria. The usual practice of States is to apply provisionally in these overlapping zones, on the basis of the principles and criteria of the convention, the equidistance between their respective coasts. Focusing on the subject before us, Spain and Morocco have maritime spaces overlapping in three areas: in the Alborán Sea in the Mediterranean, in the Strait of Gibraltar and the Gulf of Cadiz and in the Canary Islands area in the Atlantic Ocean. Spain and Morocco are still in the process of demarcating all these maritime areas. What is Morocco doing? Morocco has initiated the legislative process of updating its domestic maritime space declaration laws through the adoption of two draft laws. One is the 37/2017, which amends and completes the Royal Decree with the rank of law of 1973 that sets the limit of territorial waters. The second is the 38/2017, which amends and supplements the Royal Decree of 1981 establishing an exclusive economic zone of 200 nautical miles along the Moroccan coasts. These are two texts with provisions of a generic nature which in any case refer to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and to international law. These two projects were approved by the Moroccan Governing Council in 2017 and published on the website of the General Secretariat of the Government, but at that time, two and a half years ago, they were not given parliamentary training. Now what the Moroccan Government has done is to reactivate the parliamentary process of these two projects already known to be public. Morocco is therefore exercising its right under the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is the right of each State, including Spain, to establish the maritime areas recognized by this Convention. This right to establish maritime spaces is limited by the obligations, criteria and principles set out in the Convention itself and in international law. Where are we now? The projects are in the process of being approved by the Moroccan Parliament. The two projects were presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 12 December. On 16 December they were approved in the plenary of the Lower House, on 22 January they were approved by the House of Councillors or High House in committee and plenary. The legislative procedure has not yet been completed. It should continue with the referral of the projects to the Lower House and the subsequent referral to the Government for real sanction and publication in the official newspaper. What have we done? I would like to refer to the efforts and actions carried out by the Government on this issue, which, as a neighbouring country that we are from Morocco, has implications for our country. Spain and Morocco are immediate neighbours, but also partners and share important interests and we have a variety of cooperation in many areas. It will not escape you that Morocco's main trading partner is precisely Spain. We also have a very broad political dialogue with Morocco, including issues relating to the delimitation of maritime areas. Following the approval of these projects by the Governing Council in 2017, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Morocco undertook to keep the Government of Spain informed of the evolution of the processing of these projects, which he has done at every legislative stage. The commitment of the Moroccan Government goes beyond keeping us informed about the parliamentary process. This commitment has been expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Morocco in Parliament during the processing of the projects and before the Spanish and Moroccan media. On the occasion of my trip to Rabat on January 24, the first bilateral of my agenda as a minister, this topic was, as it is natural, on the agenda of meetings I held with the authorities. At all I found the same commitment. Given our geographical location in the neighbourhood, it is clear that our maritime spaces overlap and require delimitation. This delimitation, Your Honor, has not yet been carried out. Spain and Morocco agree that when such delimitation occurs, it can only be done by agreement between the two States in accordance with the Convention on the Law of the Sea which we have both ratified. We agree that in the area of maritime delimitation neither the facts consummated nor unilateral decisions are appropriate, this is something that we both share. We want that, but also because the Convention on the Law of the Sea says so. Let me read you article 74 of this convention. I quote: 'The delimitation of the exclusive economic zone between States with adjacent or frontal coasts shall be carried out by agreement between them on the basis of international law'. In other words, any delimitation which may affect the Canary Islands must be made by agreement between the two States concerned. I would like to point out that at the end of my official trip to Morocco, I travelled directly to the Canary Islands to keep the Canary Islands informed of these issues, which, I understand, are of interest to the Canary Islands population, as they do to the rest of the Spanish population. I would also like to say that this was my first visit to an autonomous community in Spain, understanding that the Canary Islands, of course, and their interests are also the interests of the Government of Spain. The process of legislative approval in Morocco has not been completed and, therefore, the process of submitting and publishing the documentation required by United Nations bodies to make the delimitation of maritime spaces public has not been completed. In any case, we will carefully study the content of the provisions adopted and reserve the right to react to the extent we see fit. We are firmly committed to the defence of national interests, which, I insist, are also the interests of the Canary Islands, which is not at all in conflict with the will expressed by Spain and Morocco to manage this issue through dialogue and understanding. I would also like to refer to Spain's initiative to request the extension of the continental shelf to the west of the Canary Islands, which, after a long scientific and legal study, was formalized in December 2015. This request is also being processed at United Nations Headquarters. In short, Mrs Oramas, ladies and gentlemen, as I had the opportunity to pass on personally a few days ago to the President of the Government of the Canary Islands - who has, of course, welcomed me to the islands - on such an important issue for the islands and for Spain as this one we will have maximum transparency and we will work with the greatest spirit of cooperation. There is no place in the law of the sea for unilateral acts where there is overlap. Delimitation will be done in a negotiated manner, and in this there is complete harmony with Morocco, then unilateral acts and deeds cannot be accomplished. On the consulate in El Aaiún, there has been neither a consulate in El Aaiún, there is a depositary of goods that, we have clarified, has no capacity to legalize documents. Then, Mrs Oramas, implacable in defending our interests and impeccable in the forms and procedures. This is what we want from the Spanish Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u140	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, first of all, why don Pedro Sánchez has not done what all the presidents in democracy have done, his first visit to Morocco. What were the Government's reasons for not making that visit? Secondly, you say that Morocco has exercised the right to delimit its waters. My question is: why does Spain not exercise that right? Why does the Government of Spain not exercise this right? You say it's a long process that takes time. The canaries have been asking for it for forty years. Thirdly, you say: I have found Morocco's commitment not to take unilateral action. It cannot do so by international regulation. What surprises me is that, after you had been in Morocco on 24 January, on 4 February the Upper House, the Moroccan Senate, passed the law on the delimitation of territorial waters and the exclusive economic zone. Do you know what the Moroccan Foreign Minister said? He said in Parliament that the legislative initiative updates the national legal system for maritime domains and that this update would provide a precise definition of maritime areas under the sovereignty of the Kingdom of Morocco. Look what he said after you were there. Madam Minister, it is not a question of resorting to international courts, there are interests, on the one hand, economic ones, but there is also a subject of political geostrategy and faits accompli on the Sahara, and you have not answered me if the Government of Spain continues to have the same position on the Sahara issue. I'm asking you to clarify. In my motion next week, I will put the proposal on the international position so far in Spain's foreign policy in the Sahara and, of course, I want to know what its partners think in this area. One last thing, of course, I know what kind of office there was in El Aaiún, but when I closed it, it was the one that was facilitating the visas and papers of most of the children who come to Spain in summer and who will now have to do a thousand kilometers, my question is: are you going to open consulate in El Aaiún? When are you gonna open it? How are we going to leave those 12,000 Spaniards of Saharawi origin who are doing their business there, even if they are minor? We will have to put forward a solution, even if it is temporary, because the summer comes soon and will have to be attended to there because, as you will understand, the people, and especially the children, who will come in the summer of the 50 degrees in the Sahara to our country, cannot go a thousand kilometers to get the paper or the certificate. We are also concerned about the custody of the archives of the colonial era, which has to do with the UN referendum held in El Aaiún in those offices of the Government of Spain. I'm done. What we want you to be proactive is not to wait for Morocco to make the decision and go to the international courts. Of course there is no unilaterality. After being you followed and the Moroccan minister said what I have commented to you and, in the end, national sovereignty and the Canary Islands. Canary Islands in its statute - which forms part of the constitutional framework - has a plan - which perhaps Members do not know - is the only statute that has a plan on which the straight lines are fixed, which the PSOE and the PP never wanted and, in the end, we achieved it unanimously, we managed to include the Canary waters. At this moment the Canary Islands are already the islands and the water that surrounds us. Victoriano Ríos dreamed it, so many people dreamed it... And for the Canary Islands, the sea is everything. People say living on an island can give you claustrophobia. It gives us claustrophobia Madrid, because breathing the air that comes from the sea is part of our being, of our feeling, especially when that sea has been endangered by faits consumés, because that sea has a continental shelf that has great raw materials, and let us not forget that in the question of the Sahara Sea, in the question of the sea with the Canary Islands, there is a topic of exploitation of hydrocarbons and other very important materials for the future, such as the tellurium, which are being played by multinationals who are pressing. We're asking you for proactivity. In any case, next week we will present the motion, which I am sure your group will have to support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u143	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Oramas, what I would like is for us not to fall into alarmism, because Morocco is doing exactly the same as Spain is doing, which is using the Convention on the Law of the Sea to set its maritime zones. What Morocco has done so far has been to express through legislation its desire to do so. We have not yet seen how that maritime space is to be traced. At this time, therefore, it is not possible to appeal to an international body to complain. That is why the important thing now is, I think, what the Spanish Government is doing, which is talking to the Moroccan Government to ensure that the way in which space is delimited, beyond the expression of the will to delimit it, the concrete way in which this space is to be delimited responds to international legality. Then, dialogue to defend our interests and strong response when we understand that our rights are being violated. About the Sahara, I'll be very clear, Mrs. Oramas. Our position today is the same as yesterday, which is the same as a year ago, which is the same as five years ago, which is the same as ten years ago, because this is a state position. The inclusion in Moroccan projects of the waters of Western Sahara is a matter of public international law, the resolution of which is the responsibility of the competent international bodies and which does not alter the substantive position of Spain with regard to the question of Western Sahara, which is being raised at the United Nations. I insist on the issue of the consulate, which never existed. The only thing we have done has been to put a little order in making sure that the figure of the depositary of property in El Aaiún is not involved in legal acts for which he has no authorization or training. I insist once again, Mrs Oramas, that if your motion is in line with the international commitments and respect for the international legality assumed by Spain, we will be in a position to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. Is that what you're talking about? OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ECONOMIC RELATIONS OF CATALUNA-SPAIN. [[File number 172/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u145	Urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group into Catalonia-Spain's economic relations. For your defence, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u146	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in raising this question, we are at risk, let us say a mutual risk: that it seems that I come here to make a list of grievances and that you tell me that we are not so bad and that I do not worry, that we are already going to fix it, that this new government has a new tantrum and that I trust you because we are going to fix it. But I would like us to deal with it on a pro posal basis and with the purpose of amendment. I will ask you this question in three blocks, in order to try to summarize the not so much economic relations between Catalonia and the Spanish State, but the financial relations between Catalonia, the Generalitat de Catalunya and our entire country with regard to the Spanish State. The first of these blocks would be the funding system of the Generalitat de Catalunya. The funding system of the Generalitat de Catalunya, like that of the rest of the common system communities, is an outdated system that should have been revised, an unfair system for Catalonia. It is true that it is a system that was agreed in its day by the government of President Zapatero and the tripartite government of the Generalitat de Catalunya, but it is a system that has clearly harmed Catalonia; also other autonomous communities, but I speak to it about Catalonia. It is a system that has made Catalonia above the autonomous communities that contribute, in particular, the third, and well below those that receive, in particular, the tenth. It is a perverse system in itself, which has caused that, when taxes such as the IRPF or value added tax have been increased significantly since the central government, as was done in 2012 and 2013 by the People's Party, in the end, the collection not of 50%, but of 100% of this tax increase in Catalonia has ended up benefiting exclusively the central government and not the Generalitat of Catalonia. It is a perverse system that has implied that, when some legislative initiatives have been implemented from this House or from the Government of the Spanish State, greater spending pressure has been generated in the Generalitat de Catalunya, which has not been compensated. Hepatitis C could be an example, but perhaps the most glaring example has been that of the Dependency Act, a law which in principle had to have been financed by the General Administration of the State by 50% and currently in Catalonia they are only financing by 16%. They were contributing more than 6 billion to finance the dependence in Catalonia and are currently contributing more than 1300. Therefore, it has been a wicked system. When you're underfunded, when you don't have enough resources to cope with your skills, there's an unwanted, but possible, resource that's generating deficit. In this area, the generation of deficits has also particularly affected Catalonia and all the autonomous communities. I simply remind you that in 2011 the total deficit of the Spanish State was distributed as follows: the central administration and social security consumed 60% of the deficit and the autonomous communities consumed 35% of the deficit. With the proposal that you are going to bring us to the debate next week, the central administration and social security absorb 89% of the deficit target and, instead, the autonomous communities, including Catalonia, are given only 11% of this deficit target. Therefore, the funding system of the Generalitat is terrible and must be resolved in the very short term, Minister. There is another aspect on which I am not going to extend, because we asked Minister Ábalos a few months ago, but which I have to quote when I talk about the financial relations between Catalonia and Spain, and it is the investment action of the General Budgets of the State in Catalonia. What am I going to remind you of? Over the past thirty-two years, the average of territorialised investment in Catalonia is 12%, when the average of the population is 16% and when the contribution to GDP is 19%. And it's not that you presume little, it's that you execute less. Look, the Barcelona Chamber of Commerce recently presented a report assessing that if they had simply invested what they had budgeted - not what they really played in Catalonia - there would be an impact of 3.3% of GDP in Catalonia. Look! simply by fulfilling the investment to which you have committed - and when I say you speak of the different central governments - the impact would be 3.3% of GDP in Catalonia. Madam Minister, the third block, perhaps the most painful, is that of non-compliance with financial relations. Non-compliances are non-compliances; that is, there was an agreement, there was a pact, there were laws that were to be enforced. They haven't been fulfilled. There have been judgments that recognize that they would have to be complied with and have not been complied with. And here I can tell you about the third additional provision of the year 2008, more than 700 million euros - judgment of the Supreme Court of 2017-, two years later still outstanding. I could tell you about the third additional provision, not from 2008, but from 2009 until 2003: almost EUR 3 billion. No gesture of wanting to pay. I could tell you about the Constitutional Court's rulings that 0.7% of the IRPF intended for social purposes should be managed entirely by the Generalitat de Catalunya. After I don't know how many years and I don't know how many judgments your proposal is that 80% is handled. Not 80%, 100% of the IRPF should be managed. We have EUR 688 million outstanding from the Mossos d'Esquadra, outstanding since 2010, but governments of all colours have passed and are not paid. These breaches make it very difficult to explain certain situations in Catalonia, Minister. Indeed, it is becoming very difficult, and it is very difficult to explain to them that there is a need for dialogue. A flag of dialogue is speaking to you - I have been, I am and I will continue to be - but there are things that are very difficult to explain, Minister. You now tell the Catalans that for a subject of the previous government you did not pay EUR 443 million in VAT and that you are not going to pay them; 'we are not going to pay you'. You're telling us they should have paid, yes, but they didn't pay and they won't pay. They tell us that they're going to let us get 0.2% in debt to make up for what they didn't pay us, which is ours, what the Catalans paid and should have entered from the Generalitat of Catalonia. No, 0,2 % is not what the Generalitat has as deficit targets; in fact, it would be at least 0,3 %, and that would be in order to be able to make investments, to be able to do other actions, not to compensate for what the State had to provide and did not provide, Minister. Because, if not, we are positioning ourselves in a situation in which we dialogue and dialogue - we are in favour of dialogue - and, in the meantime, you do what you want. And it's no solution. And this is the reading and perception that there is right now in Catalonia, Minister. That the outcome of the dialogue is the fulfilment of what has already been agreed upon and not fulfilled is no basis, that does not generate any kind of credibility. That is difficult to explain in Catalonia and it is difficult to explain even - I repeat - the banners of dialogue. To start talking, you have to pay your debts. If you don't pay your debts and say, let's talk about how I'm going to pay your debts... man, no! And what about everything else? If you tell us you don't have enough to pay off your debts, that's not possible. Minister, all these economic and financial relations between Catalonia and Spain have a very clear reflection on fiscal balances. President Zapatero, with Minister Solbes at the front, was courageous and, according to criteria established in this House, decided to publish the fiscal balances. Tax balances don't solve anything, but they put us all in the mirror. Are you, your government, the government of the Socialist Party and the United States, going to publish the fiscal balances in Catalonia? Do they have a real will simply to explain to the Catalans not what they are going to do but what it is and what the situation has been? Because, if we do not dare to explain the reality and be transparent in these economic-financial relations between Catalonia and Spain, we will hardly have credibility with each other by abandoning a dialogue and a reunion, which means meeting again. The question is, have Catalonia and Spain ever been found? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u147	Thank you, Mr. Bel. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u148	Thank you, President. Starting with the end, Mr Bel, I am sure that Catalonia and Spain have met many times and it is clear that it is the duty of the governments of Catalonia and Spain to meet again and seek a dialogue solution to the political conflict in Catalonia! I believe, Mr Bel, that we can at least agree on that and, therefore, it is the path that we must try to follow over the next few months in order to try to reach a solution that the parties know is not easy. We know that we sit at a table with positions found, with differing positions on many aspects, but at least on the part of the Government of Spain, with the will to try to explore these points of agreement and reach a solution that allows better coexistence between Catalans and better coexistence of Catalonia in the whole of Spain. Mr Bel, I have listened carefully to your speech and I believe that there are some issues which are quite obvious and which are beyond doubt. I am referring to the fact that I think you cannot doubt that this government, since it has arrived in Moncloa - formerly supported only by the Socialist Party, today with a coalition government, with progress - has shown unequivocal signs of its commitment by the autonomous communities, and I believe that this is not questionable. If we compare, for example, the number of resources for 2020 with that for 2017 - Mr Rajoy's last year of presidency - the financing of the autonomous communities has increased by 13 billion in that period alone, a figure that will be even higher this year. If we take complete stages, the People's Party stage, the financing of autonomous communities between 2011 and 2017 increased by almost 16 billion. If we focus only on what these two years have meant since Mr Sánchez arrived in the Moncloa, funding in almost two years has been the same as in Mr Rajoy's previous six years. I think that, Mr Bel, is a political option, a clear bet that the autonomous communities, which are the ones that provide the welfare state, have sufficient resources or at least the just ones to do so in conditions of quality, excellence, which is what we all pursue. The update of the deliveries on account last year disconnected from the approval of the budgets, undoubtedly, is an element that abounds in the autonomy that this Government considers that they have to have the autonomous communities, that they cannot wait for a budget in Spain to be able to draw up their public accounts and to be certain about the type of income. These are objective advances, Mr Bel, for the autonomous environment. We have also done so at the beginning of this year, with the update of the deliveries to Catalonia, for example, which will allow you to have 1987 million more than you would have had if the Government had taken the easy path of not trying to explore the possibilities that marked it by the law, which you will remember that we have brought to this House in order to be able to update those resources and to make public spending in line with the needs that citizens currently have. I'll give you more examples. You will recall that, after the motion of censure, a Joint Committee on Economic and Fiscal Affairs was convened which had not met in the last ten years in the State. I believe that this is a second example of the bet that this Government is making on trying to really normalize relations that had never been achieved and that had to be fluid with greater normality, greater recognition and a capacity to, at least in financial terms, try to reach an agreement. You will recall that it was also agreed to comply with the judgment of the Supreme Court of 2017 on the State's investment deficit and that the cost that the transfer of the competence of the Mossos d'Esquadra had for the Autonomous Community of Catalonia was not being met. What I do say to you, Mr Bel, is that it draws attention to the fact that sometimes your political party - and it also happens with other political formations - make demands on us and when the General Budgets of the State come here you shudder them. That's what happened to the Mossos d'Esquadra or the state's investment deficit. I will now go through the points that you have mentioned, but, of course, this government cannot be blamed for not having complied, but rather we would have to transfer them to you that why, if we comply with our commitments, as set out in the draft budgets, they did not approve accounts that were good for Catalonia. That is probably the question that I hope will not be repeated again and that we can discuss it in the forthcoming budgets that will come into this House. Because, beyond what everyone aspires in political terms - and you know that in that sense the respect of this government has always been manifest -, beyond what you convey in relation to your vocation to Catalonia, what is obvious is that the day-to-day Catalans have to build it from the General Budgets of the State and the budgets of the Generalitat itself; budgets that you have in process. Regardless of whether Mr Torra has said that he will call elections after the approval of the budgets, I understand that you consider that you need public accounts, in the same way that Catalonia needs the State to have new public accounts, because pensions, dependence, the ability to get resources, investments, are also necessary for the usual operation, I insist, regardless of whether one has aspirations that are in another environment or that have a political motive that exceeds and transcends a budget debate. You said in the first point, Mr Bel, that this government had not undertaken the reform of the autonomous financing system, and it is logical and true; an autonomous financing system expired since 2013. Now, you will understand that this Government has been working fully or fully for the past month. He had previously been without a draft budget. You know very well that we were in office for almost a year, which are not the best conditions to deal with the reform of something as important as the autonomous financing system. I do not entirely share some of the statements you have made regarding how the model behaves in relation to Catalonia. Probably because the data we both have are not data that you have contrasted with the State. If we compare how resources have behaved in autonomous communities with respect to AGE resources, in the years 2011 to 2018 the autonomous communities have grown by 41% and the General Administration of the State has grown by 33%. Does this mean it's better or worse? Well, it means that, at least, those statements that you have also made in the rostrum relate to the People's Party stage - I think they relate to the years of crisis, to the stage until 2017 - and, frankly, they do not have that same evolution in the years in which President Sánchez has ruled, and I think that you know them. Secondly, Mr Bel, I would like to see the discussion groups on the reform of the autonomous funding model incorporated. We're waiting. They have recently attended one of the meetings of the technical committee. I hope you can be participating with people with decision-making capacity, because the future of the funding model is being developed, is being discussed, it is going to be discussed in this environment where it is essential for the Catalan community to have a political representation that allows decisions to be made, to determine criteria and, therefore, to know and know how the Government of Catalonia has to address the funding system in order to be fairer in relation to the public services you provide. Today, from the rostrum, I reiterate this invitation to you and I say to you that it is a commitment of this Government that during this legislature we can articulate a model of financing that allows us to deal with the expenditure that public services have that, regardless of which administration they develop - for this Government they are fundamental health, education, social policies, competences that are transferred to autonomous communities - are fundamental for the welfare state and for this country to be on the path of progress. Mr. Bel, you were talking to me about investments in Catalonia. In this regard, I have to tell you that I believe that the data on the low territorialized investment that you accuse of having had the Catalan community with regard to the government or with regard to the execution also refers to the People's Party era, because the latest implementation data on the government of Pedro Sánchez are giving an execution of around 86.2%. If you want to tell me what commitments there are with regard to the enforcement of the judgment and respect for the additional provision on territorialized investments in Catalonia, I answer you that the draft budgets that we have brought to this House complied with the two questions, Mr Bel. [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative signs]] Yes, you know that yes, don't tell me not from the seat; you know that yes, there is the text so you can check it. It was fulfilled with the territorialized investment in Catalonia, according to the statute of autonomy, and it was fulfilled with the sentence that gave rise to the payment of this differential in relation to the Mossos d'Esquadra, 'phased' in three years, according to the agreement that we arrived at in the bilateral commission and, therefore, with the respect by this government of the meetings and the commitments held with Catalonia. By the way, we are going to continue; be sure that when we come to an agreement on the different subjects, they will be put in place or implemented in the instruments that you will then have to approve. Because if we bring in a draft budget that counts on your rejection, of course, it is not possible to implement those commitments that you now demand from the rostrum. But you're going to have another chance, this is like the second part of the same element. We will bring to this House a draft budget which will comply with Catalonia and I hope, Mr Bel, that when you can see it, you will vote on a draft budget which will be good for all Catalans. I'm finishing up. You also spoke - if not now in my reply I will comment on it - that the Autonomous Community of Catalonia had received fewer resources and that fiscal balances were necessary to know the situation transparently. I will only tell you one thing, Mr Bel: the model of autonomous financing is designed to ensure equality in the provision of public services to citizens. That's the goal they have; the goal is for health, education or dependence to have an appropriate expense and that, moreover, at least in these elements, there is no difference of treatment with respect to a citizen living in southern Spain, living in Catalonia or living in Galicia. So...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u149	Minister, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u150	I end this sentence, Madam President. That concept therefore means, Mr Bel, that for the purposes of the financing model, it is the citizens, not the territories, who pay the taxes. Therefore, we will have to make a system that really allows for equal treatment, because that is what is being pursued and what allows us to build a diverse, plural Spain, with its peculiarities, but at least in the basics, in the important thing, let us ensure that all citizens are equal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, there are many issues that you have left on the table, I will comment on some issues. On the issue of the budget that was not voted on, I was eleven years mayor, I had an absolute majority and I did not have an absolute majority, and when I did not have an absolute majority, the groups that wanted me to vote on the budget called them, tried to agree, and then, if we agreed, they would vote on us. Did you call us? No, no, Has anyone from your government called us? No, no, Someone from the Socialist Group called us? No, no, Well, apart from being a bad budget, you didn't even try to get your budget approved, you'll know why. With regard to the increase in President Sánchez's last stage in relation to Catalonia and the autonomous communities, I only leave him one thing in case he sounds like you: you are ruling with Mr Rajoy's budget. I am not going to defend Mr Rajoy, I voted for his motion of censure, but you are governing with your budget; therefore, not so many triumphs are attributed. It says: you did not vote and we have not been able to comply with the Mossos d'Esquadra. You intend to comply in three or four years with the judgment in relation to the third additional provision of 2008, 2008! Since 2008, there are 759 million outstanding and now, by 2020, they intend to pay them with four years to run. Minister, that's very difficult to build trust. In the budgets were not the 759 million euros of the sentence of the third additional provision of 2008. But still, you say: it is that without the budgets we have not been able to make certain policies. Well, without the budgets you've made budget changes in the Ministry of Defence worth 1 billion euros. These EUR 1 billion, apart from being earmarked for more defence, could have been allocated, at least in part, to Catalonia and to compensate for all these deficits. In any case, Minister - I explained the other day to the Minister of Economy at her appearance when she said: listen that this depends on the People's Party, that this depends on the Socialist Party -, in Catalonia we no longer know Governments of the People's Party or the Socialist Party or the governments of the Socialist Party and the United States We can; we know Governments of the State, and who fail in relation to Catalonia is the whole State, it is not the Government of the People's Party or the Government of the Socialist Party. Therefore, you must start making gestures, and making gestures is not going up here and saying we will fix it, but making real gestures, minister. Look, I've been asking you about the issue of tax balances and I've been asking you if you wanted to do it and publish it, and you've already answered me no. That's not new in a part of the PSOE. I understand that there is a part of the PSOE that is advocating not to publish the fiscal balances, but, Minister, the fiscal balances do not only reflect the effect of the financing system of the Government of Catalonia or of the autonomous communities, they reflect the effect of the financial economic relations of Catalonia with the whole State or of each of the autonomous communities with the whole State. We do not intend to have a zero fiscal deficit, that would be ideal; we already accept a certain fiscal deficit while we belong to the Spanish state, but it is now 16 billion. What worries me about your statement - and I understand that if no one denies it that way - is that this is a solidarity position of the Government. That is to say, the current government is not going to publish or develop fiscal balances, and I believe that this affects the whole government: the Socialist Party, the PSC, the United Podemos and the Commons; one part of the Socialist Party is not going to create any contradiction, but the rest of the actors that I have mentioned more to all those who supported it in its investiture, perhaps it creates some concern and may cause it to be rectified. We will ask you to rectify, Minister. And from the budgets do not worry that, if you bring them to the House, we will talk if you want to talk to us; so far you have not wanted, you will know, but obviously...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u153	Mr. Bel, you have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u154	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President. Obviously, we will vote on the impact of these budgets on Catalonia and on the Catalans as a whole. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bel, I have to express my surprise, not naive, at the fact that you in the rostrum have said, more or less, that you don't care who rules Spain. [[Rumors]] That's what you said in the rostrum, Mr. Bel. In the rostrum he said that the same goes for you because what you are trying to raise is against the State. [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative signs]] I probably misinterpreted it. I have listened to him - there is the Minutes - that statement and it seems to me to be part of a very serious mistake. Of course it doesn't matter who rules in Spain, of course it doesn't matter how sensitive the government is to the situation in Catalonia, and you are not going to compare the attitude of this progressive coalition government represented by the Socialist and United Party We can with the attitude that the People's Party, VOX or Citizens have maintained. At least you'll have to recognize that, Mr. Bel. [[Mr Bel Accensi speaks words that are not perceived]] He has come to say in the rostrum that they make no distinctions, that to you... Well, that is what I have understood him and, as I have understood him, allow me to reflect on that issue. [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative signs]] If not, I am glad; if not, I am glad because I believe that we cannot treat each other equally and, of course, the position of this Government with regard to dialogue in Catalonia is a position that must be used to try to find meeting points, which are difficult, Mr Bel, very difficult. We know that we each find ourselves in the antipodes, but we will have to have the ability to try to reach those points that allow us to the solution to which we all aspire, because I think that what we all are going is really that this situation ends, that the rift and the lack of normality in coexistence end and that we have the ability to find elements that are satisfactory for all parties. At least that is the spirit with which this Government comes to the dialogue table and with which this Government always addresses its political formation. Mr Bel, it is very difficult to call for the negotiation of a political formation which is self-excluded from entry and which says that it will not support budgets, except on a number of conditions which are not achievable. It is as the People's Party has done in the last few days when it says: I support budgets if you change economic policy, do not dialogue with Catalonia and do a policy like ours; that is, if we dictate what the Government has to do, then we are willing to support it, but if the Government, which is the majority, elected by the citizens, follows its electoral agenda, we do not support it. Word game, Mr. Bel. [[Applauds]] If we bring a good budget for Catalonia, will they support it? will they support it? That's what I aspire to and that's what I want. Of course you'll be called. And it is not fair for you to say that the draft budgets did not respect the agreements that we believed were essential for further progress, including respect for the status of autonomy and, therefore, that investment in Catalonia is the right one according to the statute. Secondly, the payment of the judgment in the sequence we have agreed on in the bilateral Commission, which is where we have the ability to see what are the elements that allow us to sequence that road map. I would like to ask you again, Mr Bel, whether these budgets respect the Catalonian Autonomy Statute and do we comply with the agreements reached in the bilateral Commission with regard to the judgment, will they support the processing of the budgets? Because that is the question, are they going to participate in the reform of the autonomous financing model?, are they going to add their opinion, their vocation, their expectations to those of the other political groups that we are working on or at least trying to contribute something to achieve a fair model? I encourage them to do so, and moreover, Mr Bel, it would be desirable and good - citizens expect it - for us to normalize the situation of coexistence between the State and the Generalitat. There is no doubt that this dialogue table, which I hope will be held during the month of February, will contribute to the normalization of these relations, because we cannot live behind each other or profile ourselves, as the People's Party Government did for too long. Mr. Bel, we're going to continue with the hand stretched out permanently. We need this parliamentary arc to decide on important issues that affect the day-to-day lives of the Spanish and, of course, the Catalans and Catalans. That is why we will continue to work in that direction trying to contribute. We should try to get rid of the unknown if really in Junts per Catalunya - which is present in the Congress of Deputies and, therefore, it has to be interested in national politics because, if not, it would not be his lordship representing his political group - they really have a constructive attitude that allows us from the projects presented by the Government to enrich them, process them, guide them or change them according to their own expectation. We're willing. We're going to have the fire test with the budget presentation. I hope, at least, that they will allow us to proceed and that we will be able to incorporate some of the legitimate aspirations of your group in the amendments. I will end by saying the following to you, Mr Bel; I have no problem with fiscal balances as long as your methodology is appropriate and as long as they are not used as a weapon of political confrontation. You know that in the past the publication of fiscal balances has been a political confrontation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u157	Minister, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u158	I'm done. As you directly asked me the question, I answer it. This Government has no problem in publishing them as long as the methodology is adequate and they are not used to confront some territories with others, because it is the responsibility of this Government to ensure the democratic coexistence of all Spanish and Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. Is that what you're talking about? OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THE COMPLETION OF CRIMINAL LEGISLATION IN CATALUNE AND OTHER POSSIBLE TERRITORIES OF SPAIN IN WHICH, BY A FRAUDULENT EXERCISE OF TRANSFER COMPETITION, THE AUTONOMIC ADMINISTRATION SHALL FRAUDULENTLY APPLY THIS LEGISLATION IN ORDER TO AVOID THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CONDENATORIAL SENTENCES AND ENCOVERED INDUSTRY. [[File number 172/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u160	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures that the Government is going to take to ensure compliance with prison legislation in Catalonia and other possible territories of Spain where, by fraudulent exercise of transferred jurisdiction, the Autonomous Authority fraudulently enforces such legislation in order to avoid the effectiveness of convictions and obtain covert pardons. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor for his defence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. There are some who always have the memory stuck in over eighty years ago, but they don't remember what happened just three years ago. That's what VOX is for, to remind you, to refresh your memory. We are located in February 2017. This popular accusation, exercised by VOX, started all the lawsuits in the Catalan Courts of Instruction, in the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, in the National Court and in the Supreme Court, which, following a magnificent investigation by the Judicial Police and the Civil Guard of the most serious crimes of rebellion, sedition, misappropriation of public revenues, prevarication and disobedience, was concluding a collection of evidence that ended, as you all know, in a conviction in the Supreme Court. On October 1, 2017, there was this illegal referendum charade in which some voted five times, in which the units of the IPUs and the GRS of the Civil Guard were insulted and beaten when they tried to comply with court sentences. On 27 October 2017, a declaration of independence and secession took place in the Parliament of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. And beyond that, for two long years of trial, investigation, investigation, trial and prosecution, at last on October 14, 2019, the sentence was handed down by the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, condemning the majority of the members of the Government of the Generality and the Bureau of Parliament to a sentence of sedition and embezzlement of between nine and thirteen years, nine and thirteen years. But what happened in June 2019, Mr Marlaska? For the Socialist Party government ran off to move prisoners to Catalan prisons, to those to which prison competition has been transferred; a great irresponsibility, as we shall see below. Before the sentence was handed down, they were already there, at good will, to collect from the same Generality that had given a coup d'état; their prisoners, as they said, their political prisoners at good will in prisons under the jurisdiction of the same Generality coup. Remember also that Mr Marlaska: - this is a memory - asked the Spanish calm and confidence in the Catalan and central institutions. I'm sure you remember, Mr. Marlaska, tranquillity and trust. When a minister of the Socialist Party asks for peace and confidence, it causes all the Spaniards to be unhindered and distrustful, as the facts have confirmed. [[Applauds]] In the past parliamentary term, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, I asked the government: will you grant pardons to the coupsmen? The evasive and silent response was the response of the Government. Today we know all the Spaniards why. We already know that last week the prison treatment boards of the Generality of Catalonia applied an absolutely exceptional mechanism, that of article 100.2 of the Prison Rules, in a clear mockery, in a very clear fraud of law and in a genuine fraudulent exercise of the competition transferred from prisons because in practice, in fact, it involves jumping, avoiding and avoiding the real consequences of the execution of such a serious sentence, from nine to thirteen years, and they are already in semifreedom, there are already the coups on the street. What will many other prisoners think who have committed infinitely less serious crimes and who have been serving prison for years and years? This has some very serious consequences and from this rostrum we have come to denounce it loud and clear so that all Spaniards know it, although you, gentlemen of the Government, know it perfectly well. First of all, this is a clear violation of constitutional principles, of two principles which unfortunately are too often violated today. The first is article 14, which obliges us all on an equal footing to comply with the law; equality of all Spaniards, of all, including those who are part of the coup governments of the Generality, of all. The second is article 117, which requires us to comply with sentences and which gives judges and courts exclusively the decision and enforcement of such sentences. This is also a clear disregard for the action of justice. I remind you that we are in a state of law and cannot be disregarded as the action of justice that, as you all know, is made up of accusations; the popular accusation that VOX exercised, the public accusation that the prosecutor exercised, the particular accusation that the Attorney-General exercised until it was twisted, changed and replaced to fulfill the will of the Socialist Government as lawyers of the Socialist Party and not as lawyers of the State. Finally, the prosecution of that justice was also disregarded in the police investigation and, of course, in the judges of the Supreme Court. Obviously, Supreme Court judges to some extent could have avoided the scandal and the consequences that are taking place; they could have avoided it if they had wanted to apply article 36.2 of the Criminal Code, that power granted to them if they had established at least 50 per cent, half of the sentence, before the third degree could be applied. They did not want to do so, nor did they want to see that we were not faced with simple sedition crimes - which for some are not serious but very serious, are crimes against public order - but rather with something much more serious, a coup d'état, crimes against the Constitution, as we demanded and as requested by the Prosecutor's Office with the crimes of rebellion. This is also a comparative aggravation to other prisoners; only 10% of prisoners in Catalonia have been able to benefit from this exceptional measure under Article 100.2 of the Prison Rules. By the way, among that 10% casually is Oriol Pujol, one of those who make up the caste of the untouchables, of the untouchable corrupts who have stolen from the Catalans and, therefore, from all the Spaniards, in addition to having promoted and promoted separatism for many decades. But the Justice Councillor, Ester Capella, has already said that she did not rule out applying the third degree, freedom in short, before June 2020. Therefore, gentlemen of the Government, from VOX we are going to fight to recover the prison competition and to return to where it should never have left, which is to the State Administration, to return to the Government of the nation. That is why we will also support all those who fight loyally for law enforcement and sentence enforcement, our prison officials, those who, as they themselves say, can kill because they have been left unassisted by the abandonment for decades of governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We are going to fight for their status, for them to be recognized as agents of the authority, for them to be given sufficient training, for them to be given fair remuneration, at least that which is being paid by prison officials dependent on the Generality, and to complete a staff of thousands of officials because this is assuming, in addition to their aging, that they will have to take serious risks when facing numerical inferiority in prison modules. [[applause]] That is why we are making this call, so that they do not hide behind legal subterfuges, so that they see the reality of what is happening in Spain, so that they see that those who attack the Constitution, those who despise our courts, those who declare the independence of a part of the territory, those who give coups d'état - which can be given in uniform or with tie, but are coups d'état - against freedom and democracy, do not always find the door easy, the carpet extended so that they return to the same again. By the way, there is no minimum regret in any of these convicted prisoners. They have said it to the point of satiety, they have repeated it over and over again in those interviews that they give them in prisons, they have said it to the point of satiety: ho we will do it again, we will do it again. This is very serious because not only is real impunity happening, in fact, by failing to comply with the sentences - thirteen years of sentence and they are already on the street - but they are also announcing that they will do so again. I believe that none of us in this Chamber, nor the coup parties that accompany and support them from this rostrum or any of the Members, have any doubt that at the slightest chance they will ever do so again. But I also believe that none of them will have any doubt that we, the VOX's along with millions of Spaniards, will do it again, we will again complain against them, we will again sit them on the bench and hopefully one day we will not only get them to go to prison forever - or at least for many decades - but also those parties that support them will be illegalized. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u162	On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina, I would be happy to start my speech in other words, I would even like to say that I share some of your considerations which you refer to the Government in your letter of inquiry, but, of course, I can only express my surprise when I read your statement. I am going to stifle it even though the President has already read it, but I think it is worthy of stifling: 'Measures which the Government of Spain is going to adopt to ensure compliance with prison legislation in Catalonia and in other possible territories where, through a fraudulent exercise of transferred jurisdiction, the autonomous administration is fraudulently applying such legislation in order to avoid the effectiveness of convictions and obtain hidden pardons'. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina, I will structure my speech into three parts: a reminder, an explanation and a reflection that I would finally like to share with you. The other day, before this very House and before a question from a Member of your parliamentary group, I was obliged to convey to you that encouraging false noises or news is a very serious irresponsibility. In this regard, your interpellation, your intervention today and the statements of your parliamentary group on this subject, let me tell you that if they are not false, at least they are incorrect. Your Honor, I am obliged to start by saying an obvious: in Spain the General Prison Law is fulfilled, it is fulfilled by the General Administration of the State through the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions and it is also fulfilled in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia through its Prison Administration, a transfer that is not from yesterday, is more than thirty years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fulfilled because the state and autonomous public employees who carry out their duties in prison institutions, such as all the other officials - and those of us who have been in the Public Service for 30 years, we know - are professionals and subject to the principle of legality. It is enforced because, first of all, there are collegiate bodies made up of professionals, such as the treatment boards, which are not a supervisory body, are a collegiate body that takes the appropriate decisions as provided for in articles 272 and 273 of the Prison Rules. In this control we also have the Prison Surveillance Courts and the prosecution bodies, judicial bodies, when their intervention is appropriate. Therefore, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina, I think that before we start talking we should remember, because we must remember, that Spain is a rule of law, that is, all public authorities and legal or administrative operators are subject to the Constitution and to the rest of the legal system. I think you know perfectly well the literal tenor of Article 9.1 of our Magna Charter. He will allow me to explain to him how the Spanish prison system works and to clarify some concepts. First, our system is based on the classification of prisoners into different groups, which determines their destination in a prison and the conditions for serving the sentence. This classification, ladies and gentlemen, is determined by technicians, by strictly technical criteria and which, moreover, are reviewable, and periodically reviewed by the treatment boards and at all times by the Prison Surveillance Courts: Judicial power, I don't know if it sounds like anything to you. Secondly, treatment is individualized, not collective, and is determined by section 72.1 of the General Prison Act. And thirdly, the treatment seeks to fulfil the constitutional mandate to reintegrate the convicted person into society. As a result, treatment boards and prison judges determine, if possible, preferably at the centre closest to the prisoner's place of residence. Therefore, and I remind you, if the prisoners to whom you refer in your speech are in Catalan prisons, it is because the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, which tried the facts and handed down the judgment of 14 October last, authorized it; remember, it authorized it. If prisoners for other matters are close to their home, it is also because of this circumstance. And all this is because technical teams, treatment boards and, finally, a prison supervisory judge consider that this is done more effectively and in accordance with the law and the principles that inspire it by the sentence imposed, and consider it - I repeat - based exclusively on technical-legal criteria in a regulated procedure, in which, by the way, it also participates - it has also been forgotten by the Prosecutor's Office, which can oppose all these measures. Broadly speaking, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina, this is the operation of the system. I insist, constitutional principle of reintegration, technical teams and treatment boards, prison supervision judge, technical-legal criteria and presence of the Prosecutor's Office, which can appeal to the competent judicial body in each case - prison surveillance judge, prosecution body in other cases - that is, a system that, although you do not believe it, as I have tried to explain, is absolutely depoliticized. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, and I am doing so with a reflection, as I said at the beginning, which I would like to make together with the proposing group for this inquiry, together with VOX. You spend the day talking about defending Spain, defending the constitutional order and the rule of law. We can disagree that defending Spain is, as one of the parents of the Constitution said, contributing to separatism with a separatist attitude, like yours, but I will tell you something: the constitutional order is not defended by criminalizing the state of autonomy from all evils. Thanks to the autonomous communities, decentralization, competition, cooperation and coordination that define the autonomous model, our society, I do not doubt, is more prosperous, and, as various international bodies confirm, is also socially fairer and, yes, also safer. And I will tell you something else: the rule of law is not defended by questioning, as they do constantly and today in particular, as they like to do, the division of powers, as they may more or less agree. In my opinion, it is a bad start to pretend to defend the rule of law when it is said that the judgment of the Supreme Court proceedings - remember that you have said that there are people who disobey, who defame the Supreme Court, and I quote your words, Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina, I open quotes - 'it is a author's sentence' - I close quotes - that is - and this is already my conclusion or what I hijack or interpret from your words -, manipulated, or, as the leader of your party said - I open quotes - 'a shame for Spain' - I close quotes -. It is to persevere in the mistake to come to this House to confuse its parliamentary role with the exercise as a lawyer insinuating that prison officials, treatment boards, judges, prosecutors joyfully - supposedly, with the Government as an accomplice necessary - the Spanish prison legislation. His expressions transcend the respectable criticism of a sentence. Your initiatives - let me put it this way - no longer offend the Government within the parliamentary dialectics, offend public employees in state penitentiary institutions - even if you come later to refer to some issues -, officials of autonomous penitentiary institutions, members of the judiciary, judges of prison supervision, also the Public Prosecutor's Office and the prosecution body, the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, in which case you refer. Madam President, I'm done. In replying to your question, I would like to point out that in Spain the Government, public employees of penal institutions and judges comply with and enforce prison legislation always subject to the principle of legality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u164	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much for your reply. Let me start at the end. What offends the Spaniards is that they think we're stupid. [[Applauds]] What offends the Spaniards is that they laugh at us in the face. What offends the Spaniards is that they finance openly coup and separatist parties. What offends the Spaniards is that prison officials, who perform their work in unworthy conditions, have been denied, forgotten and despised. What offends the Spaniards is that they intend to continue to give wings and opportunities to coup. [[The Lord]] I thank you for your hard work in reminding me of how the prison system works. I am grateful that you intend to tell me that there are treatment boards that select prisoners, that classify them, and that these decisions can then be appealed to the judges of Prison Surveillance, although you forgot to say that by the Prosecutor's Office. And this is where he wanted to go, which is by the Prosecutor's Office, as he appealed in the case of Oriol Pujol - that of the caste of the Pujol - and was put into semi-freedom, and as he probably does not do on instructions from those whom you claim to be the Attorney General of the State, the one who belongs to his party, the one who was his minister, who is going to apply that principle of hierarchy to the Attorney General of the State to a rajatabla and he is going to tell them what can be appealed and what cannot be appealed. [[Applauds]] Therefore, do not tell me about the Office of the Prosecutor and the possibilities of appeal. And since we're about to remember, I'm the one who now reminds you that it's not exactly how you explained it. The Supreme Court did not authorize the transfer. You asked the investigating magistrate, and he replied that that was not his competence. But you will agree with me that it is perfectly normal and possible that there are prisoners who are not in prisons near your home; you know that, because it has been applied and is applied under many conditions. And precisely here we are talking about very special convicts. It is precisely in Catalan prisons where they should not be. If we have already seen it: they have put all kinds of privileges and preferences in those prisons; they receive journalists, they dispatch as if they were at their party headquarters. That's not what normal prisoners do in other prisons. But there it is, because they are his prisoners, the prisoners of the trial. They are the ones who will tell those officials tomorrow what to do or what not to do from the Generality. So don't hide in the Supreme Court. All our respect for the Supreme Court and the Criminal Chamber: he did a magnificent job. What offends you is that you don't remember how a one hundred and eighty-degree turn took place in the State Attorney's Office, which maintained that there was a crime of rebellion, that is, crimes against the Constitution, in the title of crimes against the Constitution, against constitutional order, and, at first and foremost, stopped seeing it and became crimes against public order, crimes of sedition. We already know that they did not succeed in twisting the pulse of the Supreme Court Prosecutor's Office - I tell you, they did not. I don't know what will happen now, with the new state attorney general you propose. The truth is, I have my serious doubts about what would happen if we were to be in the same situation again. In fact, I have to tell you that I lived it personally. One of those orders from the State Attorney General at that time occurred in the Appeals Chamber when he applied for Mr. Forn's freedom or not. We were left alone with the popular accusation of VOX, and the Prosecutor's Office had to argue that it changed its approach by applying that hierarchy, by that order given to it by the State Attorney General's Office. Look, until we get a fully independent State Attorney General's Office in Spain, until we get a hand in appointing judges and magistrates, until we get the governing body, the General Council of the Judiciary not to be a division of chromosomes between the various political parties, let me publicly question, like millions of Spaniards, the independence of the judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u166	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina, welcome back to the rule of law. It has recognized the sentence, a magnificent sentence; it is no longer an author's sentence, it is no longer a shame for Spain. I refer to the judgment handed down on 14 October by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, at first I was saying something which, on the other hand, is a classic when we are discussing with your parliamentary group. Incorrectness is a serious exercise of irresponsibility, especially in the case of public representatives, and I shall mention it again. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina, as I said earlier, I ask for rigour in parliamentary interventions. I ask you for political rigour, first of all, because you know perfectly well that our country is a state of law; also legal rigour - as a lawyer who is also a lawyer - because I believe that before we talk joyfully about the breaches of prison legislation and blame everything that we do not like the autonomous state, also about transfers, it would be very good if we were informed of the functioning of our prison model, even if it were to propose its reform as a parliamentarian - and I thank you for thanking me, it is worth repeating, for making a brief summary of it - and I also ask you for ethical rigour, Your Honor, yes, ethical rigour, not only political and legal rigour, because your accusations go far beyond the government's blue bank, as I have said. These are accusations which, above all, are disrespectful - I have already told you, but I repeat it once again - to dozens of prison judges, to dozens of members of the treatment board, to whom you are supposed to have come up here today to defend, and, above all, to all the officials of prison institutions, to the same ones you were talking about here, dependent both on the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions and on the Government of Catalonia. Your Honor, I reiterate this: in Spain the Prison Law is enforced and enforced by public employees and, ultimately, by judges. And again I insist that it was the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court that authorized the transfer of prisoners to Catalonia. Even, the notification of the sentence was made by exhortation, and did not request the transfer to Madrid of those who were finally convicted. This is an incontrovertible fact. But if we discuss even the incontrovertible facts, we can come to false conclusions. I don't know what more guarantees you need, I'll tell you that. I also reiterate that there is no collective treatment of prisoners, of those convicted of belonging to a particular group. There is an individualised treatment, which, as I have said, is based on a classification system in which, simply, the aim is to comply with the sentence, that the convicted person can make progress through a flexible system in his or her situation, as provided for in article 100.2 of the Prison Rules, which is applied from the work of technical teams, from the proposal of the treatment boards and which requires the final approval of the prison supervisory judge, in whose decision he or she is involved, as we have said, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. Your Honor, I conclude at this minute that I have left, and I would like to convey to you that, after seven years of cuts, of which you spoke, and social insensitivity, this Government considers it a priority to update prison policy, modernising the regulatory framework by adopting a new general prison law - as I explained before yesterday in the Committee on the Interior - that it offers a framework of certainty to the actions of prison officials, since they also need regulatory certainty; it also improves the effectiveness of the reintegration of prisoners, with the impetus of restorative justice programmes and favours the open regime, reducing the number of inmates and enhancing the treatment that makes the principle of reintegration effective - Article 25.2 of our Magna Charter - as well as by giving the system of decent means and conditions of work, strengthening the offer of public employment of which you spoke - in eighteen months this Government has created 2000 new posts of prison officials -, also improving their retributions, within the budgetary possibilities and calling for the budget to be reconsidered and the budget of cooperation. [[applause]] This, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina, speaks of priorities, not of exaggerations, modestly, I think that is what Spanish citizens expect us to do in this House, because, of course, this minister and this government do not take anyone as an idiot. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE VICE-President FIRST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY ON THE MEASURES WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE FOR THE DEPOLITIZATION OF CONSTITUTIONAL BODIES. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u168	We then proceed to the debate on the urgent interpellation of the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory on the steps that the Government will take to depoliticize constitutional bodies. For your defense, Mr. French Ball has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u169	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, this was an inquiry that my group addressed to the first Vice-President of the Government as a result of which we raised the issue of politicization not only of the justice organs, but of all the constitutional organs, many of which are currently awaiting renewal. As I see sitting in the blue bank to my dear Minister of Justice, I understand that it will be him who will answer this question and I also understand that, with his long experience in the world of politics, even if it mainly affects the organs of justice, he will also answer me with regard to other constitutional bodies, perhaps further removed from the world of justice but of equal relevance within what is the vertebration of the constitutional institutions of the State. In Citizens we are very concerned about this issue, with the politicization of State institutions, which has an essential impact on the principle of separation of powers, which is ultimately the oxygen that the rule of law needs to function. And we do it from Citizens precisely because of our concern for democratic quality, because we are a clean party, absolutely free of backpacks of corruption, because, in the end, that is what we are talking about, to guarantee the fight against corruption, and not to enter, as you do, on the left, and you, on the right, in that competition to see who for forty years has been more corrupt or less corrupt, and to say: and you more, each other. [[pointing to both sides of the Chamber]] We, nothing, zero corruption. For this struggle we need strong institutions, depoliticized institutions, institutions headed by people of authority, who are chosen by principles of merit and capacity. This morning Inés Arrimadas told the president of the government that the Eurobarometer concludes that 75% of the population considers that the public administration is strongly politicized, a belief that the OECD raises up to 95%, while in countries such as Canada, Germany or the Netherlands it does not reach 5%. Are you going to reform the administration? Are they going to carry out a reform that involves a real professional promotion of civil servants, as well as decent wages, so that there is no escape of talent to the private sector? Are they going to boost this administration, are they going to make their structures more flexible? Are they going to face the administration's challenges in the future? Doesn't seem like it, actually. It does not seem so, because as soon as you have come to the Administration you have increased by 40% the high offices, by 37% the posts of advisers, you have ceased people like Mr. Garea in the EFE Agency, who say things as rare as that the public information agency should not be a public agency of the Government, a truly curious thing in the mentality of the government of progress, and you have appointed twenty-nine general directors who are not officials, in breach of the law, who establish preference for public officials, and annoying, angry, angry at Fedeca, the federation of trade unions and associations of high offices of the Administration, which will probably appeal, as at the time when I was vice president of Fedeca, with my dear friend Mario Garcés, when we resorted to the contentious-administrative way before the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court and we won all the sentences. It does not seem that the Socialist Party has much desire to technify, neutralize, depoliticize the public administration, because, in the end, what interests it is to weave client networks, the same as we have seen in the case of the EREs in the Andalusian Junta. And what about Podemos, which even, in an absolutely clear way, manifested at a certain time, in a hidden conversation, that we had to create chiringuitos for when they did not rule, and in this way we could continue to maintain a certain standard of living. We have also seen it when he appoints Tezanos as director of the CIS, when he appoints in Post Offices and Paradores people who lack a professional profile for these commercial activities of public societies and whose only merit is having a card from the Socialist Party. And let's get to your point, Minister: we saw it when you proposed Mrs Delgado as the state's attorney general, and before that she sat right in her seat; when you named a person who is being investigated for crimes of prevarication and embezzlement as a government delegate in Murcia. Separatist politicians are afraid of justice because they know that if they commit crimes they will be brought to trial and sentenced. But it turns out that you, who now rely on separatist politicians, buy them the speech, and our president of the government says things like judicial decisions are judicial trifles, and Mr. Iglesias, the second vice president, talks about the armed judicial arm of the right. I don't know what you'll think, since you're a judge, about this. The corrupt are also annoyed by justice, because they do end up in prison. Politicians who lie are bothered by the free media, because, in the end, they reveal their lies. Bad managers are also bothered by free institutions, because they sanction and persecute them. Which of these fears is that of the Socialist Party? The one about having separatist friends? The one about having corrupt politicians? The one about having lying politicians? Or that of having politicians who mismanage? Why don't you support, why don't you really promote these control-free institutions? Why? Why don't you do it for a television, real, plural, free, that gives the opposition a chance, and that not only launches the government's messages? Why do they copy or try to copy the TV3 model in the Spanish Television model? The strength of the institutions is the trust of the citizens, and the populisms, precisely, intend to put an end to that trust. What will the Government do about the renewal of the Constitutional Court? When will we be presented with high-ranking candidates, candidates with a sense of state, indisputable magistrates, about whom the press no longer speaks of conservative and progressive magistrates? When are you going to reform the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, with that proposal for a law that my group has submitted, precisely this very week, so that the twelve judges will be elected by judges and magistrates? We have already heard this morning from the Vice-President of the Government, when she was addressing the people's bench and saying, "Come on, let's split up the posts, let's unlock me." No, Citizens will never participate in that; they have never participated in that and will never participate in the change of chairs, in the change of chromes. We need independent candidates, because the leadership of the judiciary cannot be chosen by politicians who have to be controlled by the judiciary. When will the reform of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions take place? When will the reform of the election of the Attorney General of the State take place? Do you know who was the person who was defending from the UPF precisely this need to depoliticize the appointment of the State Attorney General? Delgado Pains. He forgot as soon as he sat there on the blue bench. He no longer defends this from depoliticization. Sure, what are you going to do! We propose that these be persons who have no political affinity, have twenty-five years of jurists of recognized competence and that their appointment be for a period of six years, with the aim of untying it from the Government and that there may be a consensus in this House precisely for this appointment. The other day in the Committee on Justice you scared us to death. If I know, I prefer death, as the joke says, indeed, because he told us that before the end of 2020 he would instruct the Prosecutor's Office to investigate criminal cases. That is, the exercise of criminal proceedings, the decision as to whether I am directing the action against this person or whether, on the contrary, I agree to an dismissal, will it depend on Dolores Delgado? Will it depend on a State Attorney General who was yesterday Minister of Justice of the Socialist Government? Is that independence in criminal proceedings? What will the Government do with the Court of Auditors, the body that monitors public accounts, also accused of politicization and pending renewal? Present us good candidates, good professionals, without political affinity, and you will have us on your side, you will not have us in front of you. But don't ask us to vote for your candidate, whatever this is, when he's a candidate with a clear profile, you say, progressive. When will the Ombudsman be renewed? Three years it hasn't been renewed. Again, are there not people in Spain who have authority in this area to defend the fundamental rights of which we cannot say that they have one political sign or another? Introduce us that candidate, we'll support him. State regulatory agencies are also awaiting renewal: the National Securities Market Commission, the National Markets and Competition Commission. Are there no candidates with a professional profile that we can't say there's a politicization? And finally Spanish Radiotelevision, the crux of the matter. In tribute to Mr Garea, whom you have just ceased and who defended that the EFE Agency was not an agency of the Government but an agency of the Spaniards, I remember his words when he said: How I would like the citizens to think that the EFE Agency gave a lot of field to the opposition. Caray, what a madness, to court the opposition from a media outlet of the government! Can you imagine the citizens saying of Spanish Radiotelevision: Hear what a pleasure, how many times the opposition and not just the government are on Spanish Television!Is that what you're talking about? A democratic delirium! A democratic delirium. Let's get it out of our heads, it's not going to be that much democracy. The question is very simple: what are they going to do about the renewal of the constitutional organs, and whether they are going to adopt reforms that depoliticize the main constitutional organs that will be poured out by the State. I believed that the governments of progress, as you are called, were coming to change things and yet the other day the vice president of the government told us in the Constitutional Commission: Man!, it is that as the laws allow me to name whomever I want...Cray, so change them, that for that they have come! Aren't you here to change things? Have you not said for centuries that you are the government of change? I end with an apology, in case you understand that these issues do not concern the Spaniards as many as we bring to this rostrum, and with a plea or a plea, even a demand: please answer me, do not do as the President of the Government did this morning to the question of Inés Arrimadas. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u170	Thank you so much. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u171	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say my first words as Minister of Justice of the nation to congratulate myself on being for the first time in this House's plenary session. And since it is possibly my last speech as a Member of Parliament, I can assure you that there is no more honorable and worthy position than representing our fellow citizens. [[Applauds]] Mr Bal, I have listened very carefully to the wording of your question and I can assure you that the first time I made it a sense of surprise and stupefaction, I was forced to take away from the political content of the constitutional organs of the State. Look, you can only say that from the most absolute ignorance of the subject or from an authoritarian view of the state, and I'm sure it's not in either one, and then my question is: Why does this question ask me a person who knows about law, who knows what constitutional bodies are? And I allow myself a reflection with you: the best political science I will place it in something that is very familiar to you and to me, in the Kelsenian pyramid, in Kelsen. The best political science tells us that the constitutional organs are the ones that deliver a state idea, a form of government. That is why these characteristics tell us that the constitutional bodies - do not forget, Mr Bal - are the ones called in the Magna Charter, that is why they are called. But not only does the name iuris occupy the text, but it also tells us what its structure is, what its functioning is, how they are articulated and what role they play. It does not mean that they cannot have an organic development, I am thinking of the Organic Law of the Judiciary or Constitutional Court, the highest rank for those rules by the way. The constitutional organs, Mr Bal, you know better than I that they are those who determine the nature of a state and its form of government, because they are the vertebrating and guiding elements of a country's policy, what the Italian doctrine calls the political address, and you know it, and that is why they are at the top of the constitutional organs. How can you say that the real concern of your parliamentary group is the depoliticization of constitutional bodies? Are you really telling me that? What do you want these bodies, the Crown, Congress, the Senate, the Government, the Constitutional Court or the General Council of the Judiciary, to be administrative and non-political bodies? [[Rumors]] You are forgetting what politics is, because politics is absolutely necessary. They are settled in what is called the speech of contempt and they understand that politics is an element that distorts and prostitutes politics, but I will tell you one thing: without politics there is no freedom and freedom, which you and I allow us to speak in this House, it is precisely politics, politics with capitals, that which you forget and not because the question of the morning is to be asked to the President of the Government and a few hours later to question this minister will change, because his argument facilitates the same expositive clumsiness. [[applause]] They don't want to know what a constitutional body is, they don't care, because they don't care about politics. They are in the discourse of devalue, they are in the discourse of burdening themselves with good politics, and so we do not build a State because the State is politically strengthening and equipping the constitutional organs. Do you think of a Congress and a Senate, constitutional bodies, Mr. Bal, discharged from politics?, really?, can you imagine? Can you imagine, depoliticized, the General Council of the Judiciary, since you like the subject so much? I will invoke a judge who has all my recognition, who is José Luis Requero, judge of the Third Chamber, who was my companion at the time when we were both members of the General Council of the Judiciary. It has written, in relation to the 122 of the Constitution, that the constitutional body General Council of the Judiciary is a political body, because political decisions are made; and we must not be ashamed, we must strengthen them, because that is what will lead citizens to have better effective judicial protection. Political decisions are the organization, the choice of the best for the best, the determination of what the judicial plant should be; they are political decisions, not administrative decisions. What happens is that you don't like a certain model and you stand in front of it, in front of it, and you don't feed what the rule of law is, you forget that signy, you forget the best political theory, because what you like is simply a state that responds to its physiognomy. You are not society, we are not society, we are all society. That is why I was telling you the other day in the Commission that our difference is not so much about the legal frame, but about the use of that legal frame, because in my Spain it is all right, in yours I am not sure. [[Applauds]] That's what I want to tell you. You formulate and question the election of the members of the Council of Judicial Power. They have put forward an absolutely legitimate proposal - I have nothing to say, we will discuss it and it will be a pleasure to discuss it - but I will tell you one thing: so let us not strengthen it. We strengthen it by complying with the legal order and today there is a legal order. Therefore, with that trench posture in which they have been installed of non-renewal they are disobeying the kelsenian pyramid. You are not at all interested in complying with the legal order, and all you are interested in is showing the choice of judges. Well, do you know what I'm saying? That the Constitutional Court, the constitutional body to which you wish to administer, in Judgment 108/1986, clearly determined the constitutionalization of the system of election of the members by these Chambers, Congress and Senate. Beware!, do not forget that that was reformed by the law, that it can do so, and today we have a system, which we will certainly discuss later, of double legitimation. His claim that judges elect candidates for members of the Council of the Judiciary is a reality and the text of the law should be reviewed because it is clear since 2001: Judges elect and, of these, the Chambers may choose. When I was a member of the council, thirty-six comrades and companions came to these Chambers and out of those thirty-six we were elected twelve. Therefore, do not insult the judicial career by saying that judges do not choose; of course they choose, but there is also a political activity because, as I said before - the best doctrine says - the Council of the Judiciary is a political body. I can tell you exactly the same from the Constitutional Court. You try to channel it in purely administrative terms, and I will tell you one thing: neither the Constitutional Court nor the General Council of the Judiciary suffer and undermine the independence of our judges. And I'll add, neither of our prosecutors. I'm getting tired of hearing a manic interpretation of what GRECO says about this particular. I took out a paper to read it and there's no doubt about it on the date. GRECO Report, Spain, 21 July 2019: The existence of a debate on the way in which Council members are appointed does not mean that the independence of judges is called into question. Mr. Bal, you hear that, right? GRECO has been very clear in this regard. I read again: 'There is no doubt about the independence and impartiality of judges in the performance of their duties', intercommissioned. This is something that had already been pointed out - I insist - on December 8, 2017, in the previous report, when setting out in point 78 - put it, put it, so that it will look at it later and we can contrast it next time - the following, in quotes: 'There is no doubt about the great quality of justice in Spain, neither about the fiscal ministry nor about the strength of the spirit of public service of judges and prosecutors individually'. Mr. Bal, don't cast any doubt on the performance of our judges and prosecutors. With this Minister of Justice you will always find a defense of the judicial career and the fiscal career because they are creditors of all the legitimacy given us by the constitutional text. He won't find us there. They do not destroy the trust of citizens in justice and participate in strengthening it. [[Applauds]] I told you in the Commission, Mr Bal. I hold hands with them, we participate, but contrary to the rules they do not do so, casting suspicions on the actions of our judges and prosecutors do not deepen the confidence that constitutional bodies must have. I hope you've refreshed the memory of those opposition issues. Constitutional bodies are political bodies, but a real policy, with capital, that to which you and I must strengthen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u173	Dear Minister, I thank you for your clarity, truly. It's all very clear to me: they're not going to change anything. Here's the thing. You use very well the words - all of us who dedicate ourselves to the world of law we usually do -, you are a judge, a person in addition to recognized competence in our judicial world, but do not deceive us. Do not deceive the Spaniards you represent in this House. You say: Look, as they come in the Constitution you are referring to political bodies. You have turned political organs into party organs. This is the crux of the matter. Do not say: The General Council of the Judiciary is a political body, it is provided for in the Constitution. Of course, but you want to turn it into an organ of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Here's the thing. Don't go through the branches, don't use words with sophisms to cheat because you don't cheat on anyone. To the citizens, of course, I assure you that it will not deceive them, nor will it deceive the GRECO group, whose appointment has read me and which says in the last report that Spain improves a little bit. He will not deceive me by quoting the 1986 Constitutional Court ruling, which endorsed the system of selection of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, saying that, however, the system of election by judges and magistrates was better. [[Applauds]] Are you going to deceive most, virtually all of the judicial associations that claim that election by judges and magistrates? Will you deceive the Court of Justice of the European Union when it decides on the case of Poland precisely and does Poland set Spain as an example as a system of politicisation of the General Council of the Judiciary? Yeah, really? It is a political body the General Council of the Judiciary that takes political decisions relating - you said, I thought heard - to the judicial plant. Damn it! Is the judicial plant something that is adopted not because of the number of inhabitants in a province or because of the number of judicial bodies that are needed but by political decision? Perhaps by contenting your separatist partners you're going to change the courthouse? Forgive me for insinuating it to you. For example, among those political powers of the General Council of the Judiciary, do you also understand the exercise of disciplinary power against judges and magistrates? Is that decision also going to be taken on a political issue? Are you going, if you get the support of the People's Party - God forbid! - to renew the General Council of the Judiciary, to appoint judges to the Constitutional Court, to appoint judges to the Court of Auditors, so that we continue to hear in the media: the progressive magistrate..., the conservative magistrate...? Are we going to follow the same, instead of saying: that great magistrate, that person with authority, that independent person, that person we have no doubt about and that he does not marry anyone, that respects, that defends the general interests and not those of a party? That's what we want, let the media say that; not let them say conservative and progressive. Similarly with regard to the Ombudsman, also with regard to Spanish Radio and Television. We want them to be professional people; and don't tell me that they are political or control bodies, confusing them with party bodies. No way. Of course one thing has become clear to me about your exhibition: they will not change anything. How are you going to present yourself to the Spanish saying that you are a government of progress and that you are a government of change? Aren't they gonna change anything? I'm going to start calling them the conservative left government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u174	Thank you so much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bal, I see that you did not have much use in explaining this. We'll have to go over it. I'll tell you one thing. It is not a good way to continue to obtain - or at least try - a political revenue from the contempt of politics. Why don't you and your group join in prestige? That's where we'll be better off. [[Applauds]] It has attacked the election formulas of the General Council of the Judiciary. I told him the other day in the Commission and I say it again today: let us respect the laws, because that is the first obligation of any citizen, but much more than what he sits here. The Organic Law of the Judiciary establishes today, with all the blessings of the Constitutional Court, how the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary must be carried out. Similarly, the Constitution and the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court set out how the Constitutional Court was to be renewed. Support us and then we can talk about legislative changes. From political trencherism we do not strengthen the institutions, because the institutions have to do the first thing to do is to comply with the laws, and we are the first to facilitate and promote that reality. That's why I'm telling you to join us and then we'll talk. Perhaps we find a formula that can fill some of the shortcomings of the system, which of course has them. Why don't they support women in the Constitutional Court? Why don't you support them? You talk so much about us not being... Let us support and take women to the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary and the judicial leadership, which are many with merit and capacity. [[Applauds]] Support us. Of course, by not supporting anyone, they do not support women either. They're jealous of that trenching, as I told you before, and that's not a good way to go. I insist that justice needs everyone's support to make a model of justice that we don't have. I told him in the Commission: Justice 2030 is waiting for him, you and all the parliamentary groups in this House, because we can all approve a package of regulatory, organisational and technological reforms that will allow a much better public justice service than we have. But they will have to change their attitude, because I certainly don't see them changing anything or a spike. I tell you that we can change it but since institutional renewal, because constitutional bodies are only strengthened when the laws that give them life are complied with, but not leaving them inert without being able to do anything. Mr Bal, I am passionate about the legal debate and you know it, but I am more passionate about bringing a public service to justice than you feel proud of. The delays in the courts are not due to the choice of the members but to the fact that there is a burden of litigation that the system is not able to digest despite the fact that our judges do an extraordinary job, and when I speak of judges I mean the whole judicial apparatus. That is why I do not allow you - and I say this to you bluntly - to cast a shadow of doubt on our judges and prosecutors, as you have just done. [[Applauds]] Our judges and prosecutors defend each and every citizen. And I'm going to tell you one thing because he likes to talk about Lecrim so much. Apart from his misunderstanding, he reviews the Journal of Sessions; what I said is that before the end of the year I would put on the table of the Council of Ministers a preliminary draft of the Criminal Prosecution Act, and unanimously the countries of our environment and the majority of this House understand that the constitutional role of the prosecutor's office is to promote the action of justice, 124 of the Constitution, but it is to direct the investigation. And the judge, as the Constitution says, judges and enforces the court, has the role of judging and guaranteeing the rights of our citizens. Therefore, there is no discredit; moreover, they should be filled with mouths defending our prosecutors, who every day defend and have an Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions that allows them to contravene the orders of their superiors. Therefore, stop raising suspicions about our prosecutors, who are beating copper every day under very harsh conditions. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I extend my hand to your parliamentary group and to all the groups in this House. Let us strengthen the Constitution, let us strengthen the policy, that policy which you are denouncing and whose contempt you are trying to nurture. No, change the step, support the constitutional bodies, their renewal and strengthening, and there they will find us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-19-CD200219.u176	Thank you very much, Minister. We're done with this. The meeting was suspended until tomorrow. It was twelve and fifty-five minutes from noon.
