ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u2	Mr Sánchez, this afternoon he inaugurates the break-up table of national sovereignty, interterritorial solidarity and equality between Spaniards, and he also does so with an appearance of a state summit, with an aggravating: he leads ministers not only because of his competences but also because of his surnames; he even takes the one from Sanidad, to negotiate with the independentist virus instead of taking measures to alleviate the effects of the coronavirus. In addition, he agrees to sit with an incapacitated convict and an accused for organizing a coup to the State; that is, with Mr. Iglesias as rapporteur of the CNI. And all this with many yellow ties and no red lines, opening the focus to self-determination, pardon to criminals, the tax pact and who knows if the single broken Social Security box, as it has already subsided with the PNV, dividing our seniors between first and second pensioners. In short, more wood to cook budgets in which he had already burned the rise of the SMI, the salaries of the officials and the pensions, to cover the scandals of Delgado and Ábalos. By the way, it has not yet responded to this group's extended hand to settle public accounts if it stops attacking institutions. But you, Mr. Sánchez, do not rush, enjoy - as always, posing - the photo. It was a photo he tried in Pedralbes a year ago, and now he amplifies it after having lied during two election campaigns to all of Spain. What's the next picture? With Junqueras and Puigdemont in Quintos de Mora? With Otegi in Doñana? In any case, continue to pose and enjoy, because this photo will be a portrait of the history of your Government, a story of great disloyalty to Spain. After all this, tell us how you intend to guarantee equality between the Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. I had made illusions, Mr. Casado, of leaving the loop of Venezuela and Catalonia and that we were going to talk about equality between Spaniards... Finally, I have to tell you that after seven years of administration of the People's Party, Mr Casado, the truth is that Spain today is more unequal, unfortunately. There are gaps in social, gender, territorial and intergenerational, because it is young people who are suffering the main consequences of the cuts in the welfare state that you practiced for seven years. Is the Spanish Government therefore committed to equality between Spaniards? Yes, in answer to your question. And we will also do so, firstly, with a fiscal policy that implements a fundamental principle, which is that of fiscal justice; secondly, with the reconstruction of the welfare state; and thirdly, with something I said here in my investiture speech, that is, dialogue, dialogue with the various parliamentary groups and also territorial dialogue with the different autonomous communities. I hope, Mr Casado, that for the next four years we will be able to find ourselves in some of the policies for the benefit of Spain and the Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u6	Mr. Sanchez, don't make us commulgate with mill wheels. Don't call dialogue what is a humiliation. It all began with the Tinell and the illegal status, with the tripartites, with the nation discussed and questionable, with the nation of nations, with plurinationality, with the declaration of Granada and Barcelona. And now you intend to re-establish our democracy by routing the Constitution. It tries to impose an asymmetric State, an unequal Spain in which nationalists have all the privileges and the rest all the grievances, but it will not succeed because the People's Party is the guarantee that no one will discriminate against any living Spaniard where he lives, the guarantee that the general interest will prevail, the guarantee that Spain will remain a nation of free and equal citizens. And all this in spite of you and you and what you are going to do this afternoon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casado, after seven years of government of the People's Party, two illegal referendums and a unilateral declaration of independence and after having multiplied by four the number of independenceists in Catalonia, from 10% to 40%, the lessons of the People's Party in defending the territorial integrity of Spain. Mr. Married, lessons from the righteous; on the contrary, some empathy, some co-responsibility. We have inherited a real fiasco, a failure in territoriality. [[Rumors]] At least, co-responsibility as to how to solve a territorial crisis like the one we have in Catalonia. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u10	Mr Casado, you cannot defend Spain unless you accept it in its diversity. And this I do not say, says Mr Alonso, who, to explain his resignation as leader and candidate of the People's Party in Euskadi, said that there was a different way of understanding Spain and articulating diversity in Spain. Mr. Married, your problem, the problem of the current leaders of the People's Party, is that they confuse equality with uniformity, and it's not the same. Mr Casado, this week there are three clear examples of how the Spanish Government is betting on dialogue. Yesterday in the Council of Ministers, after a dialogue with the agricultural sector, a real decree-law was adopted to promote measures against the price crisis in the agricultural sector; today, a dialogue table for Catalonia; and next Friday, a dialogue table precisely for inland Spain and for the demographic challenge, which was aggravated by the policies and cuts practiced by the People's Party. [[applause]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Laura Borràs Castanyer, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT CORRESPONSE TO DO TO THE GOVERNMENT, PURSUANT TO HIS OPINION, TO Satisfy A REQUEST FROM AN IMPORTANT PART OF THE POPULATION THAT REQUESTS WHAT IS YOUR RIGHT? [[File number 180/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u12	Question by Mrs Borràs Cantanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u13	Thank you, President. Since 2012 and continuously in Catalonia, we have been peacefully and massively demanding the right to decide our future. [[Rumors]] In 2014, after the failure of l'statut and the failure to comply with up to six funding systems, a parliamentary delegation, in which Jordi Turull was present, came to this House to agree on a legal consultation, and the answer was no capital. The excuse given by PSOE and PP was that the right to self-determination was not covered by the Spanish Constitution. Well, give her a little yes, if you want to have any chance, because the result is that we're leaving. During the last ten years, in the elections held in Catalonia, the independence vote has only grown and, in the latest CEO surveys, more than 70% of the Catalan population believes that a referendum should be held so that Catalans can decide what the relationship between Catalonia and Spain has to be. What should the Government do, in your opinion, to satisfy a demand from the population, which claims what it considers to be its right, Mr President?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u14	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. During the last ten years, it seems to me that Catalonia has had an average of an autonomous election every two years; that is, there have been five elections in Catalonia to elect the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia and in those five elections the independence parties, Your Honor, have not achieved the majority. They haven't made the most of it. You may have the parliamentary majority as a result of the Electoral Law that exists in Catalonia, but you do not have the social majority. You have to assume that Catalonia is plural, as is Spain. Therefore, in that dialogue that we need to foster in Catalonia in order to achieve the reunion between Catalans, you will have to recognize the other part of Catalans who do not defend independence or the postulates that you hold in this House. Today there will be an important event for Catalan policy and for the whole of Spanish policy. After ten years of disencountering, grievances and reproaches, we are going to start the path of the dialogue table, and that path, Your Honor, is going to be a difficult, complex and long one. By the way, do not forget that this government represents in terms of votes the same number in the last general elections as independence in Catalonia, practically the same number. What I want to say to you with this, Your Honor, is that the government's spirit is that this path has a destiny, and that destiny is the reunion between Catalans and the reunion between Catalonia and the whole country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u16	Mrs. Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u17	Always the excuse of the parliamentary majority. Does that mean that if we got the social majority they'd recognize it? That's to be seen. Political problems, Mr Sánchez, political solutions, and dialogue is the basis of the resolution of all political conflicts. After a year of doubts - it was you yourself who got up from the table - we welcome the resumption of this dialogue today, because it should not have been interrupted. In democracy the right not to dialogue does not exist or, as Garrigues Walker said, without dialogue there is no democracy, and yesterday we heard that this dialogue table is unconstitutional. Of course, the lack of dialogue in the Constitution is a serious matter. If you really are as democratic and progressive as you proclaim, please keep in mind that there is no solution outside the ballot box; Jordi Sánchez, another Sánchez, said very recently. They clear the path of dialogue and, to do so, they first clear the path of repression - also said Marta Rovira recently - because without freedom there is no normality. Therefore, keep this in mind when you face the dialogue table today. Like Felix Cucurull said... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank you for the tone of the question and also for the tone of your speech. Your Honor, as I said in my first speech, it is important to recognize the other in order to facilitate this dialogue. It would be good if Catalonia's independence recognized that there is a non-minor part of Catalonia that does not commulgate with independence, that does not commulgate with the unilateral drift that the independence movement over the last ten years has led in that territory, that what it wants is to leave behind the reproach, the aggravation, the rancor and meet again with the other part of Catalonia and with the group of compatriots in Spain. That is the spirit with which the Government of Spain is going to the table today with the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. You are important in that dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, you are important; rather, you are not only the whole of the independenceist forces, but you represent the Government of the Government of Catalonia. We, Your Honor, are going to go with the greatest of spirits, with the best of spirits, and hope that this table will bear fruit for the necessary reunion between Catalans. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE POSITION OF HIS GOVERNMENT TO THE CHALLENGES TO WHICH EUROPE FIGHT? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u20	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u21	Good morning, Mr. President. There are many issues that are moving in Europe that are very important and yet they are passing by or simply do not exist in the political debate of the Spanish State, to the point that there are a few chancelleries concerned about whether Spain is going to be involved in these European challenges. For starters, we have the multiannual financial framework. Of course, the CAP can't go down at once, but I also think it's to reflect that half of the CAP recipients in Spain are people who don't do agriculture as their first activity. That must move to reflection. But there is the digitalisation plan, in which we play a lot: platforms, exploitation of data for new businesses, security, etc.; there is the industrialization plan, which, of course, is very close to Euskadi; and there is also the social Europe, with the whole issue of youth guarantee. And, of course, where is money going to come from - now that it is also being talked about by the Commissioner, recently visited, on all these issues - for this? Because, of course, the summit speaks of 1.07 % of European wealth for the budget, when Parliament called for an increase of 1.30%. Where's it gonna come from? I also ask him about the safeguard mechanism for the rule of law. I think this is an issue that needs to be raised now. Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union is very important: safeguarding principles and freedoms. Do you think that the structural funds should be linked, for example, to compliance with that article? We have the post-brexit negotiation, we have the European Pact on Migration and Asylum and the Conference on the Future of Europe, a matter to which I shall return.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u22	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u23	I am very grateful for the orientation of your question, because, in fact, I believe that Spain has always had this problem that the political debate is more endogamous, it is more about internal issues - except Venezuela recently for the opposition - and it would be good to talk much more about Europe. In reply to your question, I would like to say that the approach taken by the Spanish Government, following the appointment of the high-ranking officials both for the Commission and for the High Representative of the European Union, where we have a Spanish Catalan such as Pepe Borrell, has always been to defend, firstly, growth and job creation on the European continent; secondly, the ecological transition, which must be fair; thirdly, the digitisation of our continent and be a global power in the field of digitisation; fourthly, the social pillar, after the Gothenburg Summit; and fifthly, indeed, a foreign policy and a defence policy involving many more resources and also a greater value of the European Union as a global player at a time, indeed, very complicated in international relations. I will tell you that we actually had the European Council last Thursday and Friday. Of course, we have an ambitious agenda agreed upon by the European Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament, the strategic agenda for the coming years, and what we are doing right now is putting numbers on those policies. If we do not put numbers and budget support to these policies, of course, we will find it difficult to achieve much of that strategic agenda. And that is where we are, Mr Esteban, to see if we can achieve an agreement over the coming weeks and months that will enable us to achieve that strategic agenda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u24	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u25	I ask you not to distract yourself from these European issues because they have a direct impact on all citizens. As far as the Conference on the Future of Europe is concerned, I would ask that, in view of the composition of the Spanish State, we also have the voice in that way and that, therefore, the supra-state entities - there are some autonomous governments with a genuine vocation - can have a direct voice at that conference in order to present their ideas. It seems to me that it would be most realistic, especially knowing that European vocation. I also ask you to take account of the participation in the Ecofin Council and in the Justice and Home Affairs Council of autonomous communities such as ours, with their own characteristics and which, for example, have absolutely different finances. Such direct participation in Europe would be very important. We would make more Europe that way.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u26	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u27	I take note of what the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party says. Our position on the multiannual financial framework is, first of all, to defend a budget, that is, as large a cake as possible, and we are therefore much more aligned with the European Parliament's proposal than with the taxpayer's proposal. Secondly, we do not have to make a distinction between traditional policies, which are positive for Spain, for example, the CAP or the Cohesion Funds, and the modernisation package, to which you have referred. Thirdly, we must safeguard those conditionalities, not only that which you have commented on the rule of law, but also social conditionality, which is something that we have defended at the European Council. And fourthly, we will finally have to open a debate on the European Union's own resources, that is, how we finance a budget from our own resources at supranational level... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHY WAS THE SECOND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030 INCLUDED IN THE SECOND MINISTER OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030 AS MEMBER OF THE COMMISSION DELEGATED TO THE GOVERNMENT FOR INTELLIGENCE MATTERS? [[180/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u29	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr Julio Utrilla Cano, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u30	Madam President, why has the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030 been included in the Delegated Commission of the Government for Intelligence Affairs?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u32	Thank you, Madam President. What you call a minister is the second vice-president of this coalition government. It is quite logical that he is also present in this committee of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u33	Mr. Utrilla.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u34	Madam Vice-President, convey our congratulations to Mr Iglesias; congratulations on having made the dream that he never hid from us a reality. Since he stepped on this Chamber, he has made it very clear what he wanted to be major: controller of the National Intelligence Centre. But why is such a social minister eager to take up a position in the Committee on National Secrets? Look, its governing partners, the ultra-left, are moving along the path that their friends have already travelled in the Bolivarian republics, the path of controlling education, the media and intelligence services. This is a danger to our nation. And I know he'll tell us we're obsessed with Venezuela. No, it is not an obsession; it is an immense concern that we feel for the tragedy that is being experienced there, not only because of the suffering of our Venezuelan brothers, but also because the ultra-left of this country wants to bring what was lived and is living there to Spain. But Mr. Iglesias has not come all this way alone; Mr. Sánchez has brought him with his hand. His irresponsibility, his lack of scruples and his egotism will give Mr. Iglesias access to the most critical and sensitive matters of the State. This folly will pass to the annals of history, and I assure you that we will ask you for responsibility for what happens because you have made this nefarious decision. They will also tell us that we do not respect democracy, that the Spanish have voted for Mr Iglesias, who has the right to be in this Commission. Well, we don't question the legitimacy of Mr. Churches' seat at all, it would be more!What happens to us is that we do not sleep quietly thinking that Mr Iglesias's arsonist is in this Commission and that Mr Sánchez has given him an arsenal of petrol and matches. The fifty-two Members of the VOX Group will work to ensure that millions of Spaniards remove Mr Iglesias from that blue seat and send him to ostracism and political irrelevance, which is where he should never have come from. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Utrilla, I'm sorry to disagree with something you said. You have indeed questioned the legitimacy of this Government. Its leader - its leader - in the media has not stopped repeating the illegality and illegitimacy of this government. [[Protests]] Do you know why?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u38	I will tell you this: because you do not like this decision of the Government, nor any of those that we have taken, nor any of those that we will take; because you, in a boast of 'rationality and democratic attitude', have already said that you will be against everything, absolutely everything that this Government does. Perhaps what you do not like is the ballot boxes and their results; what has happened for forty-two years in this country. [[Applauds]] Maybe they like what happened the 40 years before democracy. Maybe that's the problem you guys have. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESION, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC MATTERS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW CAN THE CRISIS PROVIDED BY THE ARANCELS THAT HAVE BEEN IMPOSED TO DETERMINATE SPANISH PRODUCTS IN THE MARKET OF OUR ECONOMY? [[File number 180/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u39	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u40	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, on 2 October the United States announced the imposition of tariffs on Airbus and Spanish agri-food products and on 18 October the unfair and harmful tariffs of 25% for products such as wine, oil or Spanish cheese came into force. To the problems already faced by the sector - Brexit, drought, exports from third countries and the lack of leadership of its Government - the sector has been added. They're paying the righteous for sinners. As you know, the United States is the second customer for Spain and the consignments that are affected by the tariffs reach 1000 million euros: 403 of the olive oil and almost 300 if we speak of the Spanish wine. More than four months have passed, how can the crisis caused by the tariffs imposed on certain Spanish products affect the progress of our economy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u41	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u42	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, in an economy as open as Spanish it is impossible to isolate itself from international tensions, including the trade tensions that have accompanied us last year and that will continue to accompany us in the course of 2020. From the Government we have done our utmost to try to alleviate or reduce these trade tensions and, of course, to support the agri-food sector, with which we are firmly committed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u43	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u44	Minister, the effects are already on the results accounts of the Spanish agri-food sector and what they are paying is a high price for a very weak government. The Spanish wine already suffers from 25 % invoicing and will soon reach 35 or 50 %, and if we talk about oil, we are talking about 150 000 tonnes which have not gone on the market and which already recognise 60 % of export losses in December. We are talking about price increases; we are talking about reducing margins and market outlets for many Spanish products because of the inaction of his Government. We are talking, in his case, about the Ministry of Digital Transformation, which has done the first thing that has been to impose the Google rate unilaterally - it is not the tensions of the market - without waiting for the rest of Europe and throwing more gasoline into the fire of the tariffs that the United States imposes on the Spanish countryside. This is the curious way you have to understand the dialogue and discreet diplomacy that the Foreign Minister recently spoke about for the United States. Please call for the urgent activation by the Commission of the exceptional WTO measures to support our producers and defend the CAP, and for the CAP not to be reduced by the 15% or 30% that you were defending in your time in Europe. As long as his Government talks about depriving one another of their powers or giving them to the independenceists and nationalists, as they will today, what happens is that France, Germany and Italy negotiate bilaterally the tariff charges with the United States. Madam Vice-President, your irresponsible government is endangering the Spanish agri-food sector all the more than freezing or a terrible drought; the difference is that there is no agricultural insurance covering the risk you represent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u45	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u46	Your Honor, as I said before, it is clear that the agri-food sector of our country, or our economy in general, cannot be isolated from international tensions, but from the government we are doing everything we can to accompany the sector and to stem this kind of tension. This is not the only problem facing this sector, as we know well after an intensive process of dialogue with the Minister of Agriculture over the past few weeks. Secondly, I do not think you are right in wanting to link this issue of tariffs with that of digital taxation. We cannot continue to have a state of first class welfare with a fiscal system full of holes, and I believe that the whole of Spanish society expects us to propose the creation of this digital tax, the rate of financial transactions and a set of taxes that strengthen our tax system. [[applause]] And it has nothing to do with one thing with the other, at the international level there is agreement to move towards a global digital tax. Thirdly, as the President of the Government has just pointed out, we strongly defend the common agricultural policy, not only for economic reasons, not only because Spain benefits decisively from this policy, but because it is fundamental to vertebration... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u47	Silence please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u48	... economic, political, social and territorial aspects of the European Union as a whole. Finally, the sensitivity of our Government to the sector cannot be called into question precisely this week, in which the Council of Ministers has adopted a package of measures to improve the functioning of the food chain, and not only for reasons of justice, not only for reasons of economic efficiency, but also for reasons of respect, because the farmers and entrepreneurs of our country deserve our respect and affection and play a fundamental role in the vertebration of our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA TAMARA RAYA RODRIGUEZ, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF MARIA MERCÈ PERE I CONILLAS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE LAST DEBT RATE REDUCTION DATA ON GDP? [[File number 180/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u49	Question by María Tamara Raya Rodríguez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u50	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, Spain is making progress in the consolidation of public accounts and this is demonstrated by the good performance of the ratio between public debt and GDP of public administrations in 2019, which fell by four tenths more than expected, while decreasing by 2.1 percentage points compared to the previous year's rate. In addition, the reduction achieved in the period 2018-2019 is four times higher than that achieved in the period 2016-2017, when the People's Party ruled; 2.5 points has reduced a socialist government compared to 0.61 points that reduced a popular government. The government debt-to-GDP ratio is the lowest recorded since 2012, according to data from the Banco de España, and this has been possible thanks to the reduction in the issuance of the Treasury's net debt, which last year was below 20 billion. Following this, it is clear that the Government is committed to the sustainability of public accounts, in addition to the good performance of our economy despite a scenario with significant international uncertainties. This also materializes in greater confidence in the Spanish economy by investors, which has led to a sustained reduction in the risk premium. Madam Vice-President, in the face of the catastrophic canteen without truce that strikes the right, an opposition that does not show any modesty for its unquestionable role as guilty of the increase in poverty and inequalities between the Spanish and Spanish, we ask you: What is the Government's assessment of the latest data on the reduction of the public debt ratio over GDP? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u51	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u52	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much for your question, Your Honor, because the assessment we make is undoubtedly positive. Reducing the deficit and public debt is one of our Government's priorities and is one of the most important imbalances we have experienced since the crisis. In 2011, the government debt-to-GDP ratio was around 70 %. By June 2018, when we arrived at the government, we were around 99% of gross domestic product. Therefore, one of our priorities since we arrived at the Government has been to accelerate as much as possible the reduction of these imbalances despite being in a frankly complicated situation of budgetary extension. Thanks to our commitment, thanks to the good management of the Treasury, the public debt of public administrations has closed 2019, according to data from the Banco de España, in 95.5% of GDP. That means that we are four tenths below the Government's target, we are at the lowest level since 2012, we are on the right track, a fact that recognizes international financial markets. Yesterday we had an auction with a new record of interest rates in terms of low interest rates. We achieved a two-percentage reduction in 2019, the largest annual decline in a decade, which reduced the public debt/GDP ratio in the period 2014-2017. This acceleration has been achieved thanks to the good management of the Treasury. We have taken advantage of the low-interest environment to issue a public debt in net terms below 20 billion a year. We have managed to save some $24 billion in interest payments only in 2019 and in a context where the social security deficit is mainly financed from public debt once there are few resources left in the Reserve Fund. Our objective is to finish the year below 95% and the legislature below 90%, but to do so we must approve the path of stability that my colleague the Minister of Finance is going to defend tomorrow, and to do so we must have general state budgets as soon as possible. So I take this opportunity to call on all political groups to continue to reduce the deficit and public debt as quickly as possible without jeopardizing economic growth and job creation, which is what this Government wants. [[Applauds]] Is IN THE CHAIR: MRS JOAQÍN MARÍA GARCÍA DEZ, POPULAR PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DO WITH THE INCERTIMUMS CAUSED BY THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COSTS LAW? [[File number 180/000043]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u53	Questions to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Joaquín María García Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u54	Madam President, Minister, the summary of the past few months could be said to have been uncertainty and no dialogue. There are many who are currently critical of their performance and are asking for information. It's not much to ask. We have plenty of reason to be worried. First, its war on thermals; then, on diesel, which also affects farmers, and now the threat to conserves, fish farms, marine farms, to an entire sector linked to the first European fishing power, which is Spain, to the second world power to conserve, which is Spain. Do you have anything to say about all this, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u55	Madam Vice-President Fourth.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u56	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question, which goes far beyond what you formulated in writing, which had to do with the Coast Law. Anyway, I'll answer your question. Yes, this government wants to work to generate certainty and security for Spanish citizens, because it seems important to us, and to eliminate for their tranquility the uncertainty and insecurity that resulted from a unconstitutional Coast Law of 2013, an illegal Coast Regulation of 2014 and that lawlessness that mean the impacts of climate change on our coast. Moreover, we seek to ensure that citizens do not feel deceived or confused, and you have become specialists in that, including in generating a fear in the canneries, who have no problem whatsoever with the application of the Coast Law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u57	Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u58	Madam Minister, the blame is always on the People's Party, but you have appealed to the Constitutional Court the law and lost it within the time limits of the concession. [[Several Members: Yes, yes]] They lost him. It's always the PP's fault and the government does everything perfectly, we know that. But in recent months you are threatening the viability of many companies, forcing them to move miles from the coast, inland, or renewing concessions for ridiculous deadlines, for periods of less than a year. That's impossible to hold. You told us the other day in the Commission that you were doing all this, for what?, to get the watering of the coast for public enjoyment. Please! In addition to draining the coast, do not forget two other important parts that also affect your ministry, which are the social and economic parts, which have to do with the demographic challenge. And all of this is being done without that prior dialogue that I was telling you at the beginning. I will read you a small sentence: We want to act on the basis of dialogue, participation, listening and transparency. Does that ring a bell? It's his words here seven days ago. You were probably at that time thinking more about the table that you are opening today with those who have more broken up living together in Spain than the people you had to defend and are abandoning. He probably did. The paper endures everything, Minister, the land does not and the Spanish do not. In Galicia alone more than a hundred companies will be affected by these measures and more than 5,000 buildings will have to cease to exist. The Autonomous Communities and the sectors involved are asking him to meet for dialogue. Take these minutes to announce that you withdraw the draft regulation and that you will not bring any bills here without first dialogue and consensus. It's not much to ask, Minister. Advertise it. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u59	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u60	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I understand that we are campaigning and this makes us force arguments, in some cases beyond reality, to the point of lying. There are no companies under threat. [[Rumors]] The great uncertainty, the great threat is the result of a law change in the Costas Act. We respect the Constitution, not only article 155, but also the existence of a land-based maritime public domain, which the waves, moreover, are responsible for dissolving above what you may come to modify, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court declares its law unconstitutional and despite the fact that its regulations are contrary to its own law and to the Law on Public Administration Heritage. We've worked in three directions. The first, together with the State Legal Service, to have common, shared guidelines on how to apply what was left in a marsam of confusion after its failed laws; and that allows us to apply the same criterion to everyone and not on the basis of whether we fall better or worse. The second is always to interpret in favour of the Spaniards, of the Galicians also, not generating confusion or cheating, but also allowing them to have a positive reading in the extension of the concessions that remain in force; and this allows us to accompany all of them, including those two or three canaries - some had not requested the extension of the concession in time - in order to be able to maintain these facilities for the maximum time allowed by the Constitution and the law. And the third is to try to modify the regulation and the Coast Law to return them to what should always have been, the protection of the coast according to a physical reality from which we cannot escape, without confusing the Spaniards, without generating insecurity... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u61	Thank you, Madam Vice President. - OF THE MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT FOR ECONOMIC TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT CONCRETE MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO HAVE A JUST TRANSITION IN THE MINERAL TRADE OF THE TERUEL PROVINCIAL PROVINCIAL, BETWEEN THE PHOTOVOLTAIC AND THE EOLIC CENTRALS TO PROMOTE [[ANDORRA, CUENCAS MINERAS, BAJO ARAGÓN...]] THE PRIVATE SECTOR, WITH A SHORT CREATION OF STABIL EMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/000053]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u62	Question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u63	Good morning, President. Minister, what concrete steps has the Government of Spain taken or intends to take after the planned closure of the Andorran thermal power plant in relation to the mining areas of Teruel - Andorra, Sierra de Arcos, Bajo Aragón, Cuencas Mineras -, beyond the photovoltaic and wind power plants that the private sector intends to install and that contribute very little job creation?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u64	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u65	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Allow me to begin by reminding you of the difficulty of reacting when there was no anticipation of something that we knew was going to happen, scheduled closures, known for a long time, in order to comply with European rules. That's why we quickly launched the Urgent Action Plan for coal and power stations closed in the period 2019-2021, seeking to respond to the most pressing and pressing challenges. We are already working on a fair transition agreement for the area. From tomorrow, and during the next few days, in the diagnostic process, in the reactions and proposals that arise from the territory itself and the timing of the actions will be agreed with all: administrations, trade union organizations, business, environmental, youth and research centers, with the intention of being able to sign this agreement in the coming weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u66	Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u67	This is a subject that is very much concerned in our community, because it is a future that we feel as we have already lived. There have previously been other closures of other thermal systems, such as Aliaga, and the consequence of the inaction of the State was the very rapid loss of population of more than 70%, for example, from 935 to just 340 inhabitants of which the locality today has. This process of resource extraction that has taken place continuously with the Teruel province, which is subject to almost colonial treatment, is what we believe should not happen on this occasion. A just transition, to be so, must be a just transition socially, and we believe that it must involve not only its ministry, but all government ministries, also Development, also Innovation, also Agriculture and also Tourism. It must be a holistic action, a comprehensive action, which will bring to the territory initiatives of activity that will eliminate the loss of employment that will occur. In this regard, for example, it seems absurd that the Government is willing to consent to the demolition of the plant itself. It is a central with a unique structure, its fireplace is the highest structure in Spain, with 343 meters, and has cooling towers of more than 107. It is like eliminating a resource that in the long and medium term would bear fruit; it is as if to create employment we would start to demolish the cathedrals of the provinces. The structure of the existing plant must be maintained and exploited as one more resource. We also understand that the main difficulty of reindustrialization comes from that it is not a competitive territory, because any company that wants to install knows that it is more than an hour away from moving any highway or high capacity road. In this sense, the Ministry of Development has a lot to do, it is an example of the deverberation of Spain and there...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u69	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you know that you have our full commitment and sympathy from the Government, not just from ministry or from person to person. I do not like the word 'colonial' with regard to what we do; on the contrary, we are convinced that only if it arises from participation, inclusion and the will to build a future on the part of local actors will we succeed. We have already taken many steps. Decree-Law 17/2019 ensured that the discharge point that is released can be used in the same territory, as well as the water resource that is released with the closure of the thermals. I think it is a good idea that you propose, like many others, with regard to maintaining part of the facilities. We have been working to be able to reactivate all the aid from the Coal Mining Restructuring Institute and aid for the reactivation of the mining regions. Samca has benefited from this with a very interesting project of generating and creating fertilizers from coal. We have reoriented Reindus with EUR 400 million to promote industrial investment in the transition areas, as well as business investment to promote economic activity. We are working on a unique plan to be able to work on the reorientation of all workers with the Ministry of Labour, and we are working on the rest of the elements that allow us to identify up to forty or fifty projects, with a specific allocation for the area, which I believe are enormously promising; but they require the participation, commitment, linkage and construction of their future agenda by local actors. We're on it, we're going to keep on being on it and, as I tell you, precisely these days I have a... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u70	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Is that what you're talking about? IN THE CHAIR: MR MANUEL MESTRE BAREA, PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, FORMING THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHAT PLANS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE REGARDING THE FUTURE OF MILITARY MILITARY FORTY-FIVE YEARS? [[File number 180/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u71	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Manuel Mestre Barea, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u72	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. What plans does the Government have with regard to the future of troops and navy personnel who have to leave the Armed Forces under Act 8/2006 when they reach the age of 45?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u73	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mestre, for the government, national defence and the armed forces are a matter of state, and their men and women, their priority. We are therefore implementing and will continue to implement the agreement reached in the subcommission set up for this purpose by the Defence Commission in September 2018. We are working on this, and we look forward to the cooperation of all the parliamentary forces. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u75	Mr. Master.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u76	Madam Minister, I really say this to you, I am thrilled and grateful to you for your affection for the Armed Forces, as you expressed last week in the Defence Commission, but your attitude and that of your Government, like that of previous governments, is summed up in a saying: I love you very much, but I love you very much. [[Laughter]] And it is that the problem has an obvious budgetary interest in establishing radically different service relations for the categories of command tables, on the one hand, and of troops and navy, on the other. The current situation is alarming. It has been estimated that if nothing changes in the next ten years, half of the 50,000 soldiers and sailors currently in ranks can be seen in unemployment after more than twenty years of service. Madam Minister, would it not be more consistent to equate the rights of military troops and navy with the rest of the civil servants? Will you continue to condemn them to a precarious situation that does not affect the rest of the public employees? Minister, the military of troops and navy are serving society as a whole and willing to lose their lives to protect us. Is this the thanks you deserve? The nation cannot abandon those who have served it with loyalty. Our parliamentary group has put forward a non-legislative proposal calling for the establishment of a common staff regime for the categories of officer and non-commissioned officer, troop and navy. This is the same law that regulates the service relationship of all military personnel. On the other hand, I will allow myself, Minister, to respond to the comment you made on the Defence Committee. No one can appropriate what is his, referring to national symbols, but he can and must... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u77	Thank you, Master. Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u78	Thank you, Madam President. You will recognize me, Mr. Mestre, that referring to the Armed Forces as a dog is not the right thing to do, but, in the end, I will not take it into account. [[Applause. - Several Members say words that are not perceived.]] As measures we are taking, I can tell you that as of 21 February there are 2078 REDs, reservists of special availability, coming from the troop and navy scale who are charging EUR 658.43 compatible with any other benefits, so they are not being left behind. The ministry has a strategy of comprehensive work orientation that works in a two-way way. Firstly, they can find training. It seems to us that the most essential thing is that everyone should be able to go out with an average degree of vocational training, because the training of our men and women in the Armed Forces is very important. Secondly, we are working to find jobs in different areas: in the private sector and in the public administration. In the field of private enterprise, agreements are being signed; in the field of public administrations we have seen the agreements that have been signed for their integration into the local police and we have also seen how ADIF and Renfe are going to incorporate people coming from this staff, from reservists of special availability. I can tell you that the number of scholarships being awarded for training is increasing by 70%. I can also tell you that the most important thing for us at this time is to study legal formulas that allow certain actions that are being hired externally to be carried out precisely by these personnel. That requires formulas according to commercial law, but don't hesitate that they're going to be our priority and that's where they're going to find us. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? OF THE FIFTH ROMERO FRAMEWORK OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMING THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHAT CRITERIA IS THIS GOVERNMENT IN THE RELATIONS OF THE MINISTRY OF DOING WITH THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES? [[File number 180/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u79	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Marcos de Quinto Romero, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u80	Mrs Montero, now that we are alone, I ask you in confidence: Do you consider the policy your Government pursues with the autonomous communities to be just and progressive? I say this because I do not know if you, in conscience, seem fair and progressive to reward those autonomous communities that exhibit unfair behavior with Spain and insolidary behavior with the Spanish while ignoring and even punishing others.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u81	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u82	Thank you very much, President. I was wondering, Mr De Quinto, what are the principles governing relations with the autonomous communities, and it cannot be anything other than the principle of institutional loyalty, which seems to you to practice little. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u83	Mr. De Quinto.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u84	Mrs Montero, your sectarianism seems to have made you forget that you are or should be the government of all the Spaniards and not just your own, and also that you govern with and for all the autonomous communities and not only for those who preside or for those other governed by whom you sell their support so dearly, that support that allows you to sit there where you are and that not long ago the authentic PSOE rejected as shameful, just like you, which was what you did, by the way, in the last election campaign. [[Rumors]] I tell you this because, when the Ministry of Ecological Transition - what a pity that Minister Ribera has now left - declares emergency works on the Mediterranean coast by the Drought Gloria, declares them only for Catalonia, Valencia and Balearics and denies them to Murcia. I also say this because of their continued attacks on the Andalusian government, which prevent debt markets from going out with the infamous excuse for the bad management of 2018 in Andalusia. Please, Minister, it is a management of which you have all the merit. In the meantime, this very afternoon in Moncloa, his president and his advisor will again bend the spine before a amortized president, usurper and puppeteer who acts at the orders of a fugitive from justice. Mrs Montero, while you and your partners are filled with plurinationality, federalism, greater levels of autonomy or bar free of transfers from the autonomous communities, you do not stop harassing, do not stop bullying communities such as those in Madrid, Andalusia or Murcia, ruled by Citizens who freely decide to use their level of competence, which is lower than others, not against their citizens, but to lower taxes and generate prosperity... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u85	Thank you, Mr. De Quinto. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u86	Mr De Quinto, this government has worked for the autonomous communities with a clearly autonomous vocation. I just give you one thing: in seven years the People's Party has increased the deliveries to the autonomous communities to account, resources, by 15 billion, and this government, since it arrived, in just two years, has done so by 13 billion. But the question, Mr De Quinto, I think that is where you were when last year we brought a path of stability that provided an additional EUR 25 billion for the autonomous communities. Where were you when we brought in a draft budget which fixed the problem which the Government which you supported, Mr Montoro's, caused with the VAT situation? Where have you been every time this Government has brought here a budget proposal that would make it possible to finance dependency better or that would make it possible to comply with autonomous statutes in each of the territories? Where were Citizens? You probably didn't even know where you were. This Government will continue to have that autonomous vocation, and I would like you, Mr De Quinto, to look at your position with regard to the Autonomous Communities. You now declare yourself autonomous. Is that the new principle of the Citizens' Party? Because you are associated with VOX, which is a political formation that directly denies the state of autonomy and governs with that political formation. [[Applauds]] You are talking about attack, sectarianism - and I do not know what other words you have used - and you were referring, in particular, to tax harmonisation. I do not know if you remember, Mr De Quinto - probably not - that Mr Garicano, the distinguished economist of his group, defends fiscal harmonisation. Not only do you defend it in your programmes, but you defend it at European level. So what is my interpretation of my words on tax harmonisation now? The capacity of a community that has the capitality to exercise fiscal dumping, which forces the rest of communities to lower taxation, and then even some of them to ask the Spanish government for resources or, in other words, I lower it... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u87	Thank you, Minister of Finance. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA CARVALHO DANTAS, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING TO THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE POLITICAL POSITION OF THE GOVERNMENT WITH REGARD TO THE INTERNATIONAL CENTRES OF FOREIGN? [[File number 180/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u88	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by María Carvalho Dantas, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u89	Good morning, Minister. The Republican Parliamentary Group would like to know the political position of the Government with regard to detention centres for foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u90	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carvalho, your question refers to human rights. Speaking of human rights, let me begin by condemning the new macho murder this morning in Aznalcollar and the commitment of this Government, the Ministry of the Interior and the State Security Forces and Corpses to combat this manifestation of human rights violations. [[applause]] I answer your question. When we arrived at the Government, in June 2018, we encountered obsolete detention centres, with inadequate functioning, where the principles that the Ombudsman and also the international bodies observed regarding their functioning were not taken into consideration. We are taking steps to improve the functioning regime, in line with what the Ombudsman has set out and what the Council of Europe has mentioned. That is our vocation: to have IECs compatible, as it cannot otherwise be, with human rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u92	Mrs. Carvalho.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. We see that the government's position is not to close the CIEs. This is our political position, Minister: the CIEs are administrative prisons for migrants who are in an irregular situation waiting to be expelled. But not all migrants are expelled via CIE. In fact, many are expelled through what we call express deportation. Deportation often occurs after a call or communication to the police station for a matter of interest to them or through a beating by ethnic profile. These persons are arrested and expelled without legal assistance of any kind and often without being able to communicate it to their relatives and friends. They are taken against their will to a scheduled flight expressly for a large group or to commercial flights, where police custody and handcuffs are deported to their country of origin. The Catalan Parliament in 2015 adopted a resolution calling on the Spanish Government to close the IECs. On 17 February this year, Esquerra Republicana also filed a motion in the Parliament of Catalonia to close the IECs. The State, Minister, must break with the policy of differentiation and classification of persons, also based on human rights - you have just referred to human rights - it must ensure radical compliance with article 14 of the Constitution and also with article 26 of the International Covenant on Human and Political Rights of the United Nations. The Republican Parliamentary Group also urges to know about the outbreak of tuberculosis at the CIE in Aluche. We are not content - I'm sorry to say this, but it comes out of my soul - with the washing of the institutions' faces to reform the CIEs. We demand closure...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Carvalho, I obviously share your concern about the effectiveness of human rights, how to deal with irregular migration - it would be more difficult! - and human rights in substance, not in form. We do not face-wash, we apply human rights, the substantiveity of human rights. Where there is some form of expulsion, it is an expulsion according to a file not only administrative, but also judicialized and under the control of the judicial authorities. There are no express deportations in this country; in this country there is strict and express compliance with human rights and fundamental freedoms. With regard to the CIE, our commitment to the Ombudsman is evident in the field of foreign affairs, also with the judges who control the detentions, because any placement of an alien in an CIE, as you well know, is controlled by a judicial authority. It is true that the judicial authorities had placed the focus on the CIEs, but not on the merits, not because they should not exist, but because of how they were managed. And we are working on that issue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. Is that what you're talking about? OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANDRES LORITE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: DID THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA ORDER THAT A PREFERENT ZONE FOR DELCY RODRIGUES IN THE AROPOGUERT OF SUAREZ MADRID-BARAJAS AMOUNT OF HIS RECENT ESTANCE IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/000044]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u97	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Andrés Lorite Lorite, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ábalos, did you order a preferential zone for Delcy Rodríguez at Adolfo Suárez Airport, on the occasion of your visit to Spain? [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u99	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lorite, the answer is clear and clear: no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u101	Mr. Lorite.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u102	Mr Ábalos, you have shown that you do not speak a truth or by mistake. Together with Sánchez, they have become the embodiment of lies, implemented the administrative procedure of continuous falsehood, and fabricated a fake government. You are living in a crisis of credibility without return, take charge. Maduro's right hand cannot enter community territory for having committed crimes against humanity. However, on January 20 he found in Spain a minister of ethics who walked through Spain, including the VIP room at the airport. A very serious episode about which you should start explaining already. From there you have incurred one lie after another, there are already countless inconsistencies and falsehoods that you have brought about these days on the matter. The Spaniards don't deserve a minister who lies to us. That is why you must leave, but not without first assuming your political responsibility together with the rest of the Government. It is unacceptable that those of us who hear such lightness as that public money is nobody's, today tell us that the situation in Venezuela is not of interest to anyone either. It is unacceptable that the Government to which you belong has succumbed to such moral relativism. The truth must be the way for a dignified government, and legality always unbreakable in democracy. Your Honor, the tyranny, the lack of freedom, the absence of democracy and the violation of human rights experienced by the Venezuelan people does matter, they matter to all people of good, to those whom we do recognize Juan Guaidó as president in charge of Venezuela. You say you've come to politics to stay. However, he cannot remain at the head of the ministry any longer, since he has exhausted all the Spanish's credit, has made the lie his method and he has only one worthy option: resignation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u103	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lorite, have you been on vacation these days? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Because after three weeks it comes to me with something that has already been said by your colleagues and your colleagues; that I already had an inquiry and that there was a vote here in the Chamber that you lost. The reprobation was lost to you, and I see that it is difficult, because reprobating a minister comes out for free; but as you put it, it is absolutely necessary. [[Rumors]] You can't make a speech trying to go after the lie and build yourself three hundred falsehoods. [[Rumors]] The falsehoods of the VIP room, the duty free ride, the forty suitcases, the phone call, the gold... Let's see, do you talk about the lie? The party of the lie, which made us believe the whole of Spain and the world that the worst attack that Spain has had made it ETA to save itself? You, who the Yak42 soldiers didn't want to identify? Are you the party of truth? [[Strong protests.-Applause.]] [[Strong protests.-Applause.]] [[Strong protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u105	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u106	Are you the ones who don't use the police, when we're now seeing who uses the funds? You? Are you worried about Venezuela, after using the help that the Spaniards...? [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u107	Quiet, please. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Resignation! Resignation! Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government, standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, again: Resignation! Resignation! Resignation!Extended applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations We can-In Comú Ponde-Galicia in common and from the members of the government, again standing.-A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Long live democracy!]] Mr Ledesma Martín, I ask you to remain silent and respect the speaker, please, and also your entire parliamentary group. Mr Lorite has been heard, and now we will finish listening to the reply from the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u108	Thank you, President. Anyway, I don't know why they want to ask me if they won't let me talk. The truth is, it's a nonsense. Let me answer that. I have been very respectful and I have not encouraged the bench to disrespect it. I have never seen this in Parliament in all these years. I haven't seen him. It must be the new times. You told me you're very concerned about Venezuela. I would tell you to clarify at once what happened to that money to help the Spaniards in Venezuela that you took to the black market to finance the election campaign in Galicia. When they solve that, they tell me about the Venezuelans. [[Several and several Members: Very well!-Applause]] That's what you need to clear up. But they're not really interested in the truth. The day you want to know it I am willing to give all the explanations; the day you stick exactly to the truth of the facts, which are very simple, so simple that you have exaggerated them to delirium. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED PATRICIA RUEDA PERELLÓ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT QUALIFICATION DOES THE LORD KOLDO GUARANTEES TO HAVE BEEN APPROVED MERCHANCE COUNCIL? [[File number 180/000048]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u109	Question by Mrs Patricia Rueda Perelló from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u110	Thank you, Madam President. What qualification does Mr. Koldo García Izaguirre have for being appointed Renfe Mercancias Advisor?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u111	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u112	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Rueda, as it cannot be otherwise, the appointment you are commenting on was made in accordance with the law in force. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u113	Mrs. Wheela.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u114	Thank you. Rhetorical. From Mr Koldo García we know that he was a driver and bodyguard of Mr Ábalos, and that Mr Sánchez in 2014 described him as a guerrilla of large dimensions; perhaps because of the history of conflicts. We also know that he is a person of trust of Mr Ábalos, so much so that he took him in his car, and it seems that he even gave instructions to officials and security personnel of the airport the night that Delcy Rodríguez was in Madrid; let us remember, lady that he is forbidden to travel in Spanish territory. When the Socialist Party governs the Spaniards lose jobs, suffer from rising taxes and creating new ones, there are cases of corruption, such as the ERE of Andalusia, and they settle in lies and demagoguery. Progressive government, opportunist government; opportunist that also acts as agency of placement in paid jobs with the money of all Spaniards. Not only Mr García, also his wife, and I am not talking about yours, Mr Ábalos, who also - his wife, his father-in-law - but also Mr García's wife, who in turn has a public salary in the ministry that you run, occupying a place that usually corresponds to officials. That's how the Spaniards pay, that's how we pay, with the money in our pockets and the tax money? In September, a media publication published: the government repositions Renfe's leadership of a PSOE convict who was Mr.Siancas' right-hand man. Minister Ábalos, socialist and ultra-left deputies, do not acquire Mr Sánchez's bad arts in the lie and in his policy of appointments and plugs: Paradores, Post Offices, CIS, etc. They don't rob us, they don't lie to us, they don't waste, because they are facing, far ahead of fifty-two magnificent deputies of VOX, almost four million Spaniards, and we will constantly remind them of their lies and their actions. [[rumors]] And please be honest, even if it's asking too much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u115	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Rueda, I know that the concept of democracy that you have is very relative, because, of course, to demerge 298 Members against 52 magnificent... is what you have to believe in the equality of all. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Perhaps in time you will see this intervention and I assure you that you will not be proud. You have quoted an assistant of the many there are. You also have many assistants in your parliamentary group, but that person cannot defend himself here, tomorrow he will be a father, he cannot defend himself here. And the lady you say is your partner doesn't hold any official positions, none. This is another of the falsehoods that you invent. You brought this moral misery here I don't know if for me to tell you that Mr. Abascal was wearing two chiringuitos, which he charged more than the president of the government. Is that what you want me to answer, that Mrs Monastery had no training to sign architectural projects not being architectural? You want me to answer this? You're looking for that when you ask me about formations. And when you ask me about plugs, you're asking me about that no doubt. Tips I see I don't have for myself. How can you come up with this question by prying into your own weakness? I tell you that this gentleman whom you deserve and whom you have come to call a gorilla - because it is the usual thing: to try to remove all traces of dignity, of humanity in order to be able to eliminate someone who, as I say, cannot defend himself - has been more than twenty years providing escort services, directing escort services in the Basque Country, to some of those who have protected it you have very close, saved the life of two policemen, which deserved a medal from the Navarra Police, a recognition from the Civil Guard for participating precisely in the fight for peace in Basque Country. [[rumors]] [[applause]] It has the recognition of the Ertzaintza, of the Pamplona Police; for something it will be. But for you so patriots, that, as it is not yours, is not worth anything. It's unfortunate; I'm sorry for you, Mrs. Rueda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u117	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO ADOPTE THE STATULIZATION OF THE CONVENTIONS? [[180/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u118	Question addressed to the Minister of Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u119	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, as I am going to talk about employment and labour rights and not Venezuela, we can probably have a relatively calm exchange of views. In the last ten years in the Spanish State, two labour reforms have been put in place; two labour reforms that, under the pretext of updating the working conditions of the labour market, have only made the working class poorer, and have introduced concepts such as the stateization of the agreements that still suffer today from the Basque workers as a whole. That is why, knowing your view against this concept and its application, we want to know what measures the Government will take to put an end to the stateization of the conventions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u120	Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u121	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Matute. It certainly raises one of the most relevant issues in labour law. See if it is relevant that article 37 of our constitutional text establishes the right to collective bargaining, and of course everything that has to do with the basic rights of employers and trade unions. I must say in this first reply that, as you know, the Government neither states nor decentralises collective bargaining. In this case, the Government must comply with the legislation in force, which I insist today is in article 37 of the Constitution and in Title III of the Workers' Statute. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u122	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u123	Thank you very much. Please note, Minister, that I do not ask you to violate existing legislation; all I ask you to do is to amend it, to change it, to exercise the power of this Government to modify conditions that have not only made the entire working class, including the Basque workers, poorer. Because we do not have the Basque framework of labour relations and because we are subject to state legislation, also on this occasion. And it is curious because in this House there is much talk of equality, there is much talk of the necessary equality between Spaniards, but what is not said is that this equality, for example, when it comes to the stateization of the conventions, requires that what we can achieve in Euskadi or in Navarre for the workers is limited and amputated by the existence of a higher framework, a prevailing framework, which is the state framework. That is the reality in which we live, and that reality is not only a blow against the capacity of the Basque unions, but it is also a blow against the very existence of trade unionism, because creating a framework where trade unions weigh less is something that - and in this House it is also said on many occasions - goes against democratic principles, because, what would it be of this democracy that so many medals are distributed and so many times their lordships fill their mouths if it were not for the work of the trade unions, if it were not for the effort that the trade unions made. When the unions are taken away from their bargaining capacity, when they are looking for frameworks that favor and interest the Banco de España, but that do not interest the workers, it is obtained that, for example, there are more 'kellys' or it is obtained that in the hotel shop it is covered much less than it would have to be collected and much more worked than it would have to be worked. That is the reality of the labour market offered by the Spanish State, and the evidence, the effects are very clear: wages are lower, working conditions are worse, collection is lower through taxes and social cohesion is also lower. The only thing that has increased are the business benefits, but also - and unfortunately - has increased the precariousness at work, has increased the risk at work. And so - probably because we're very sensitised - we have to say that in what we've been doing this year there are thirteen dead and two missing...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u125	Mr Matute, as I have told you, this is a very short topic. Please see whether it is important that the debate raises that, as you know, the autonomous framework of labour relations was defined and envisaged in the 1994 legislation. I must also say to you - you know it - that it was modified in 2011, in the sense of being able to maintain negotiations equally on an autonomous basis, but it is quite true that with an exception, and therefore with restrictions on this autonomous framework. You know - and I take this opportunity to express it and I share your reflection; it is shared by the Government - that the reform of the People's Party has been destructive, has squandered collective bargaining, and we are currently trying to rebalance it. This is the central action we are taking to return the voice to the bargaining units. You have a commitment that once you achieve this first factor, I will have all the sensitivity to debate, to dialogue - also to dialogue - with the most representative trade unions of an autonomous nature - you know my sensitivity, I am Galician - about what should be the future of the structure of collective bargaining. First, the reform of the People's Party must be repealed; a voice must be given to collective bargaining; a rebalancing of collective bargaining, and of course absolute dialogue with all the most representative unions - with all the unions - in order to address the structure of collective bargaining. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u126	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE VICTOR VALENTÍN PÍRIZ MAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: WILL IT AFFECT THE ANNOUNCEMENT TRANSFER OF SOCIAL SECURITY TO THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITY OF THE VASCO COUNTRY TO THE NATIONAL PENSION SYSTEM UNIT? [[File number 180/000046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u127	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mr Víctor Valentín Píriz Maya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you will be just as ashamed as I am when you see the applause your colleague has received, reminding those who received Minister Mariano Fernández Bermejo days before his resignation. Your last applause. My question: Will the announced transfer of social security to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country be affected by the unity of the National Pension System? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u129	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Píriz, in no case; in no case. This Government has neither taken nor will take any decisions that may affect the unity of the Social Security System. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u131	Mr. Píriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u132	Thank you. Madam Minister, you are not going to answer the truth, we all know that; you know that you have signed the protocol with the PNV, with the Basque Government. You know that with this measure, which in forty years no one had ever intended to put into practice in Spain, the Social Security box is broken. The government of Pedro Sánchez, his own, stands in the arms of the nationalists of the PNV and goes further than none of them have done before. His Government is dedicated to those who want to break Spain and to those who do not care about our country. And all this does not happen within the framework that we have given ourselves in this House, within the framework of the Toledo Pact, which is the place where we should all be able to agree on everything that has to do with the pensions of all Spaniards. No, you bow your head to the nationalists, yield to their pretensions, access blackmail and hand over the key to the one-size-fits-all-Spanish pension box to the PNV. Minister, explain to the extremists, to my countrymen, that they hand over that key to their pensions to another autonomous community. It explains that in the future there will be several different pension systems in Spain. And explain to them that, as pensioners, they will not have the same rights as others, even though they have contributed the same. Look them in the face and explain to all pensioners in this country that this you are going to do will not affect you. You are claudicating and surrendering to the nationalists, generating uncertainty in our pensioners and widespread mistrust in all Spaniards. It is not just this Member who thinks this; there is the report of the professional association of the higher body of lawyers of the Social Security Administration and of the union of labour inspectors and of the Social Security. We all agree on the same, we all agree: we discuss this in its place, in the Toledo Pact. There is no lack of consensus on something as nuclear as the very viability of the pension system. Do not break Spain with bilateral commissions, with tables of blackmail and claudication in matters that affect us all to keep five more minutes in power. Don't cut Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u133	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Píriz, if you speak of lies it will be because you usually use them; this minister and this government, no. In any case, Your Honor, this Government believes deeply in the autonomous state, and therefore in the development of its statutes, namely the Gernika Statute of 1979. And in this framework of statutory development this minister, on behalf of the Government, has agreed with the Basque Government, with the Lehendakari Urkullu and with the Sailburu Ercoreka, on the one hand, an effective transfer of three competences that were well advanced, well advanced, such as school insurance, pharmaceuticals and support for retirees when there is ERE in companies; transfers that we will make effective, and I hope so, in the Joint Committee on Transfers set for 16 March. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, another agreement relates to an indicative timetable for the transfer of outstanding competences between 2020 and 2021; the ones I have just mentioned will be launched in March, but from June 2020 onwards, we will start the outstanding transfers. And in that pending timetable the following is at the end of the same one, that is, between June and December 2021 - listen carefully -: we have agreed to the start of studies for the examination of subjects related to social security, in this case in economic management. This is the deal, Mr. Píriz, this one and not another. And besides, as I said publicly in the appearance I had with the Sailburu, something that seems to us to be of the utmost relevance and it is, first, given the complexity, to do so within the framework of the Toledo Pact, because that is what this government is working on, that is what the Minister of Social Security is leading, within the consensus that this country needs for something that is fundamental and, you know what it is? Sustainability, sustainability and consensus; consensus and sustainability. That's the deal. Moreover, you would have to look at what you vote for, because there are other statutes of autonomy that contemplate the same competition and, you know what? His bench has supported him with his favorable vote, so what is good for one is good for all. [[Applauds]] What is also worth to this Government, ladies and gentlemen, is consensus, sustainability and, above all, the Toledo Pact. That's where we have to meet, because that's what worries us all, the pensioners from wherever they are, from Extremadura, the Basque Country, the Canary Islands or any other corner of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u135	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u136	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to clarify the constitutional impact of the meeting of the Bureau between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which will take place on 26 February 2020. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos has the floor for her defence. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President of the Government, I am so glad to see you in your seat. [[Noting the empty seat of the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Calvo Poyato]] Some people, no doubt very poorly thought out, warned me that you would not debate with me today; they told me: you are able to abdicate your democratic responsibility as Vice-President and coordinator of Catalonia's policy. He is able to leave in order not to answer the first opposition group about the most important initiative for Spain. It is able to inflict a double affront on Congress; it is able to move away from the seat of national sovereignty to negotiate that same national sovereignty with representatives of Catalan coup; it is able, in the end, to leave Parliament to go to a table of play, to a timba. But it seemed too much to me, even to you. Their presence here today shows that they still have some scruples, few certainly, very, very few. Today President Sánchez and his Government will be a milestone in the history of Spanish democracy, and also in the history of the old Socialist Party. The bilateral table is the last act of a process that began long ago, a process marked by disloyalty; a separatist process, yes, of definitive separation between the Socialist Party and equality; your process, Mrs Calvo. The table completes the reactionary drift of the Spanish left as described by a Catalan of lefts, this yes, Félix Ovejero. It is the culmination of the process of phagocitating socialism by a retrograde, closed, anti-liberal ideology. As you sit at that table you, formerly socialists, publicly confess nationalists, idolaters of identity, opponents of freedom, equality and fraternity. This afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, he plays a requiem on the Spanish left. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Madam Vice-President, your table is many things: first of all, it is a photo; the picture of the surrender of the Spanish Government; the image that has been searching for two years for those who, on October 1, 2017, stood up against the Constitution and coexistence, individuals who have not only lost forgiveness, but have repeatedly announced, challenging: we will do it again; we will do it again. This afternoon's photo, it is true, has an immediate precedent: the image of the Barcelona summit, an international summit. President Sánchez was received by the condemned Torra as if he were a foreign head of state. He must have liked pomp and paraphernalia, that's what vanity is all about!But with these two photos you humiliate Spanish democracy and above all you humiliate yourselves. [[Applauds]] Secondly, gentlemen of the Government, the table is an amnesty decree. At the table, the impunity of the coup prisoners will be negotiated. This is what Prisoner Junqueras claimed. The truth is, it seems unnecessary to me. You have already politically amnestyed those whom Spanish justice has criminally condemned. They were amnestyed by accepting - what I say, by pleading - their vows for the investiture of Mr Sánchez; they were amnestyed by announcing a reform of the Criminal Code to lower the crime of sedition, and yesterday the Minister of Justice went further, saying that those sedition penalties in the Criminal Code are unusually high - helping, helping - and amnestying them today definitively by sitting at a table that legitimizes their delusions about a black and repressive Spain. The prisoner Junqueras and the condemned Torra, legal, legitimate and clean of all criminal sin, and with them, of course, Mr Sánchez. I told you last Wednesday and I repeat it today: in fact, what you are looking for is to amnesty Pedro Sánchez for the crime of less-than-democracy which is supposed to have been agreed by the Government of Spain with a sedition convict. There is no greater amendment or contempt for justice, and there is no worse message to the outside world. Next Saturday the fugitive Puigdemont has called a massive act in Perpignan, shame for Europe, of course, but above all shame for you. You will already tell me in your reply the name of the socialist speaker who is going to intervene as a teller of the fugitive. Thirdly, Madam Vice-President, your table is a betrayal of the other half of Catalonia. [[pointing out the empty seat of the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Calvo Poyato]] Not only do they abandon the Catalan constitutionalists today, they not only chronicle their helplessness and aggravate their discouragement, they leave them at the feet of nationalist horses, victims of xenophobia, the tyranny of feelings and that discourse of hatred which in Spain is above all anti-Spanish. There are many, hundreds of thousands, the constitutionalists in Catalonia, Catalans who abide by the law, yes, who assume and celebrate political pluralism, who look at the other, the different, the one who thinks or speaks differently, with respect and affection, Catalans who do not tear up the yellow ties to hang in place blue, red or green bonds, but simply to preserve the neutrality of public space, an indispensable condition for a coexistence in peace and freedom; Catalans who endure Stotically, peacefully, heroically, the mockery of public television, the contempt of theoretically common institutions and even the nationalist kale borroka, yes, violence, the underground and the explicit. Those Catalan Democrats are the great losers of the process that you lead. You have not only stolen the political and moral victory over the coup, you have imposed an unjust and unnecessary defeat on them. This morning I was listening to President Sánchez talk about empathy. Empathy! What empathy do you have with the constitutionalists in Catalonia? [[Applauds]] They only have empathy for the left, for the nationalists, for their own. For others, for Catalan constitutionalism, none. Now, gentlemen of the government, Mrs Calvo, let us talk about dialogue, that beautiful concept. [[pointing out the empty seat of the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Calvo Poyato]] It is, like the term peace. Let's take a look at it. They say you're talking to Catalonia. Really? Which one of that table, with almost as many members as the blue bank, represents constitutional Catalonia? The one who calls them wild beasts who speak Spanish? The lieutenant of a sedition convict? Does the Chavista, who considers the Constitution to be a lockdown, defend self-determination and debut in the vice-presidency of the Government by attacking the judges? The one who met clandestinely with a torturer in Barajas? The one who calls the extreme right nationalist citizen party and the nationalist PSOE - in this case, is it true?- Moleskine's defendant? It's going to be a rapporteur, I suppose. Or do the four separatist deputies represent it without any charge in the government, those who, with their mere presence, clearly deny any resemblance between their bureau and a bilateral legal commission? Or does Mr. Illa represent you? [[Applauds]] I don't know if as a minister of health - of course today it has a much more urgent virus to attend to - or simply as a member of the PSC, the party of linguistic fines, variable self-determination and nations of take and put. Or maybe yourself, Mrs. Calvo? [[pointing out the empty seat of the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Calvo Poyato]] No, that's for sure not, because the last time we discussed you accused me of acting against Catalonia. It was funny, actually. Against Catalonia is the symptom with which Jordi Pujol arrogated himself the right to silence his critics. You already speak like the nationalists, to justify that you do not talk to the constitutionalists and, above all, to justify that you are going to talk about what you are going to talk about, which is what the nationalists want, about self-determination. No, you do not dialogue with Catalonia, you dialogue with nationalism, against the other half of Catalonia, and of course against the best Spain, that of 78, which your own party helped to forge. And with this I go back to the core. Madam Vice-President, do you remember the Barcelona demonstration of 8 October 2017? I think we all remember that demonstration. It was a massive, luminous, optimistic demonstration, an act of democratic demand and also of reconciliation. Hundreds of thousands of Catalans, millions of Spaniards, left and right rejected separatism, joined under the Constitution and proclaimed their will to remain free and equal before Spanish law. But the Socialist Party did not support it, it did not. At the next march, on the other hand, the 29th, it did adhere. I was there and saw how Mr.Iceta literally jumped the fence and joined the constitutional tribute. And I thought at that moment: socialism has finally come back. Ingenuous of me. That was just a mirage, a flash in the night, an illusion. As soon as you could, you returned to your being. Mrs Calvo, I repeat, in case you have not heard me correctly: the bilateral table is the last act of the process of absorption of socialism by nationalism, a process that precedes the eruption of Podemos and that is not only explained by Mr Sánchez's unlimited desire for power. [[pointing out the empty seat of the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Calvo Poyato]] It is true that you have signed a mephistophelic pact: in exchange for the Moncloa, we give the Basque Country to the Basque Nationalist Party, and Catalonia to Esquerra. But there is also in you a stubborn, rooted and eloquent attachment to inequality, and to the facts I refer. Year 1984, case Banca Catalana: at the door of the Parliament of Catalonia the leader of the PSC, Ramón Obiols, bends his head in the face of the aggressions of the followers of Pujol, who accuse him of acting against Catalonia; never raised her again. Year 1998: the PSC agrees with ICU the Language Policy Act, which includes sanctions, fines for labelling in Spanish. November 2003: Zapatero meeting in Barcelona where it says: 'Pascual, I will support the reform of the Statute approved by the Catalan Parliament'. A month later, Pacto del Tinell: Maragall agrees with Esquerra to exclude the PP from all the institutions of Catalonia and the State and to boost plurinationality. Year 2006: approval of the statute; Maragall states: 'Thanks to the new statute, the state has a purely residual character, today we already have a new Catalonia, a new Constitution, a new fundamental law'. Year 2010: Constitutional Court ruling on the statute; José Montilla throws herself on the street and says: 'There is no sentence that can judge feelings'. Year 2012: the PSC incorporates the right to decide in its electoral programme. Year 2013: Members of the PSC break the voting discipline in Congress and support the right to decide, among them, the third authority of the state today; yes, you, Mrs Batet. Year 2017: Declaration of Barcelona. The PSOE proposes to reform the Constitution to include the national recognition of Catalonia - we are already arriving -. Year 2019: Iceta assures that 'in Spain there are eight nations, nine if we add Navarra, I have counted them'. January 5, 2020: Sanchez is appointed president of the government with the support of a sedition convict. Today, February 26, 2020: meeting of the Sanchez-Torra table, also cursi and falsifiedly called 'the meeting agenda'. Rendezvous? Rather than meeting again, ladies and gentlemen, this evening is a nuclear fusion between socialism and nationalism. In other words, a definitive disagreement between the left and equality. There is no longer a left party worthy of such a name in Spain; a party that prefaces freedom to the essences and demands of identity nationalism, equality, discrimination by language or reason of origin, fraternity, selfishness and territorial insolidity, that is, citizenship to the old blood laws. Sometimes, in private, you are caught in a fleeting shame and justified. At least we've managed to break the nationalist front, they say. Certainly, at the cost of forming a new, equally lethal socialist front for democratic rights. That's why I'm not wasting my time today. I am not going to call the Socialist Members and Barons into an impossible rebellion; it would be a second sign of naivety on my part. All of you are convinced accomplices of a burial; not that of Spain, since Spain has survived even more harmful and solvent phenomena than you. What is buried today in the Moncloa is the Spanish left. And I'm going to be honest with you: I think it's logical news and it calls for compassion, you have to bury the dead. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u137	I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I recognize that I had another principle for this intervention, but listening to what I have just heard, I have to say that indifference does not affect me. I have to say that frivolity does not stop us, because the performance I have just heard has no place in politics and less in this House which represents the citizens of this whole country. [[Applauds]] Mrs Alvarez, I am going to address you out of respect, the respect I have for you even if you don't profess it to me, I don't care, I'm not going to stop. And you know why? Because starting - as the first vice president said yesterday - is moving forward, and that's what we're going to do today. The table responds to the commitment of the President and his entire Government to find a dialogue solution within the framework of the law. We have presented a document with forty-four concrete initiatives to improve not only relations between Governments, but especially, above all, to improve the living conditions of people. In order for Spain and Catalonia, yes, to find each other again, to find each other again, the response of this government cannot be simpler, Your Honor: the law is the condition and the dialogue is the way. Catalan society has the right to meet again, as our President Sánchez has said, because after ten years of crisis, conflict and lack of agreement, who is going to oppose giving a chance to meet again between Catalans, but especially between Catalonia and the whole of Spain? The path that our Constitution sets out to provide solutions to the problems that affect our country is to explore solutions through dialogue and negotiation between legitimate elected representatives. It has been said, not this Government, nor this minister, although I already know that for you the value is little; it has been said to someone whom I suppose you will respect, who is the supreme interpreter of the Spanish Constitution, our Constitutional Court, which literally says the following - I open quotes -: 'The public authorities, and in particular the territorial powers that make up our autonomous State, are those who are called to solve, through dialogue and cooperation, the problems that arise in this field'. So, Your Honor, it is clear what this Government is about and what it is about: constitutionality in order to find a safe and legitimate solution. The bet of the previous Government, which you represent with your acronyms, was immobilism. They stopped doing politics, stopped presenting proposals, stopped taking an interest in the real problems of citizenship in Catalonia and, of course, stopped providing solutions. The policies of a government can and must be disregarded, Mrs Álvarez, of its objectives, of its purposes, of the development of many issues that this government does, but I do not think that they do any good to this country if they constantly question the adequacy of our actions to the constitutional framework, because that is what you have been doing repeatedly and machaconically since Pedro Sánchez took office as President of the government. But you know what? Fortunately, our Constitution admits a wide variety of policies, without any of them being able to claim the exclusive right to be the only constitutionally acceptable one. Mrs Alvarez, I think there are facts and facts that should make you think, although I see no. You have made a story, as always, biased and forget about your own performances. But do you know why they forget? Because they did not do any, because it was total immobility that led to the growth of that policy deployed by his Government and with which independence was increasingly strengthened. I am not going to say that you did it deliberately - that I leave it to you regarding us - but there was immobilisation, inaction. I understand that they do not heed the illegal demands of the independenceists; what we do not understand is that they did not heed the demands and the signs of discontent and discomfort of Catalan society, because that which they so much reiterated that Spain does not listen to us, Spain does not want us, it happened with you, with the People's Party and its little or no action. I have no doubt that we who are here want the good of all who make up this country, and to achieve that good we have to do our own job. The government, to drive and direct politics, and you, must oppose, which is to exercise control. However, there are occasions when it is also necessary to take a look because this affects the core of our democratic coexistence, Mrs Álvarez. My party understood this during the trial, my party did not agree with Mr Rajoy's immobilisation and let him know, but under no circumstances did that fundamental discrepancy about his party's policy break the loyalty of the socialists because we believed and believed that we had to be one. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Does the word loyalty ring a bell? Does the word loyalty sound to you in any way? I don't think so. [[Applauds]] I will not tell you that it is great, I will tell you to practice it, to practice the word loyalty; a loyalty of country and the people of this country. I do not ask you for a blank cheque - at all - I ask you to postpone your legitimate partisan interests and think about the interests of this country; I ask you, Mrs Álvarez, to do what my party did in the past, what yours claimed and got from mine. He asked for and gained loyalty; he asked for and gained a sense of state; he asked for and gained responsibility, and he asked for and gained height of vision. Catalan society is tired of this confrontation and if they look at sociological data they will see that they want a meeting, they want an agreement, because that is what we want to do. Spain and Catalonia have the opportunity to meet again at a dialogue table and that allows us, at least this government to which I represent in this rostrum, to talk about the things that matter to most people and that are contained in those 44 points that we have already given. This government cares about each and every corner of this country, also Catalonia, also its citizens, because they are part of this country. Each and every one of us is our citizens and we cannot lose any of them. We already know that for you Catalan independenceists were lost cases, as well as for the independence parties were lost cases who are not independenceists, but for this government there are no lost cases. On the contrary, this Government wants to offer and offers a solution to the whole of Catalan society and the whole of the country, which you did not do, but on the contrary. I think it is opportune to recall what President Tarradellas left written: 'Cataluña is too small to despise any of his children and is old enough for us to be all in it'. I also say this in reference to the Government of Spain: we are all fit and there is no one left. And so that no one, ladies and gentlemen, may be expelled from this great nation, which is ours, we must ensure that we all feel comfortable in it. And you know why? Because imposing is losing. Does that sound like imposing? Does that sound like imposing very recently? Does that ring a bell? [[Applauds]] To impose is to lose, Your Honor. It is not stronger who imposes or who wants to impose; on the contrary, it is stronger who dialogues, who sits to speak, who listens to the other's reasons, because we are convinced of our reasons and we are able to expose them. You don't want to see the reality of Catalonia. I know you're a Member of Parliament for Barcelona, but I haven't seen so much political myopia in such a short time. Catalonia and Spain are much more complex than the simple arguments you use. Immobilism has already been explored, you have practiced it for many years: stagnation of conflict and independence. This Government has the right, but above all it has the obligation, to explore another path, another solution, because when politics does not offer solutions, as you did not offer them, they do not come from elsewhere, as you have intended them to come, because the powers of the State cannot in any way supplant political power. Its role is another, which, by the way, they perform fantastically, but it is not useful for this solution. Mrs Alvarez, it is clear that the words that the President has already spoken so solemnly in Palau, which are very important for everyone - especially for Catalans and this country - do not tell you anything; I also understand that they do not tell you anything that I am telling you, but do you know what I tell you? That, in the face of the noise for your ears, make me think many times that you hear but do not listen or, worse, that you neither listen nor understand the reality of this country. Mrs Alvarez, this country is a diverse reality, it is a multiple reality with multiple looks and multiple sensibilities. That is why the Spanish people have developed a model of state in line with that reality, Your Honor; a model of state that you find it hard to accept, which brings you serious headaches when you try to explain why both in Basquedi and Catalonia have become a residual party, and I have no doubt that in the next elections it will continue to be so, because sometimes sums do not add up, but sometimes sums up. That is the model, Your Honor, and in that model of State the statutes of autonomy are a fundamental piece and their development an obligation of all the public authorities, because that development depends on the improvement of the living conditions of each and every citizen. It is in this constitutional development that this Government's proposal for dialogue goes. Political conflicts, political problems are solved by political means, i.e. through proposals and dialogue between those who have been legitimately elected by citizens. As rulers, we must stick to the beginning of reality, Your Honor, and the reality is that we have the opportunity and the obligation to seek the way for that reunion for the good of all Spaniards; therefore, we work, also for the good of all citizens of Catalonia. And it is, Your Honor, because that is reflected in the Constitution. By the way, the Spanish Constitution is not a safe, on the contrary. It seems to be clear from your words that in the Constitution it is only up to you. It is not, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitution welcomes us all, it is the umbrella that protects us and in which we feel safe. Our Constitution is not a chain, as you would like it to be, our Constitution is a great embrace for all the Spaniards of this country. Therefore, our constituents, with great wisdom, made it wide, that we might cup all and all, that we might feel comfortable in it. The Constitution is not a creed that is imposed, on the contrary, the Constitution is a meeting point between different conceptions of society and life, it is a search for a solution. This Government has moved and will always move on the margins defined by our Magna Charter, because this Government feels deeply committed to it, as it cannot be otherwise. I suppose this will tell you very little, because in your restrictive view of the Constitution it is what there is. It is not a problem of the Constitution, it is a problem of your constitutional myopia, a highly dangerous conception for the Constitution itself, since it constantly puts it in question, always using it to attack the Government of the nation in this House, boasting, by the way, that you are the only ones not already interpreters, but even owners of this great letter. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. He does no favour to our Constitution, but to the contrary and not to the country. I ask you - it is in your right and do so - to be contrary to the policies of this Government, if you consider it so, but never to the Constitution. I will not ask you to abandon that situation of barricades that you constantly have against this Government. I only ask you to keep your eyes open, because that is what this country wants, and that is what Spain requires. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Madam Vice-President, I see that you have not said anything, literally I will therefore take these minutes to address a message to the constitutionalists of Catalonia, to that other half to which the Socialist Party has definitively betrayed. [[pointing out the empty seat of the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Calvo Poyato]] In the other half of Catalonia there are many citizens, of different origins, ideologies, accents, ages. Today I want to incarnate that half in the students of the S'ha Afinat! association, whose impressive courage I witnessed during the last two election campaigns in Barcelona. By demanding their right to debate at the university and even their elementary right to go to class they were harassed, pointed out and assaulted, and they still are, victims of the demented nationalist slogan 'Death intelligence', of which today the left also incredibly participates. I want to tell these young people and all the constitutionalists two things. First of all, I want to tell you that we understand and share your anguish. Over forty years the successive autonomous authorities worked to make them invisible. The classrooms, the institutions, the media, the culture, the public money, everything was put at the service of a national construction project in which only one and the other counted. The goal was to make the myth of a homogeneous Catalonia, Catalonia as a single people, a nation come true. The result was the exclusion of the dissenters, their submission, their conversion into foreigners in their own country. Well, the independence process had the virtue - the only - of destroying that myth. He demonstrated that there was not a single Catalonia, that nationalism was not hegemonic, not even peaceful, that there was another Catalonia: heterogeneous, tolerant, cosmopolitan, vibrant; a Catalonia worthy of the respect and support of the institutions of the State and willing to ask for passage. That was the real reunion, that of Catalonia with democracy. Hence the grave, the immense responsibility of the Socialist Party. Mr Sánchez and his Government have shunned the Catalan constitutionalists the moral and political victory over nationalism and with it the opportunity to show the world that Catalonia is an open society. A moment ago Mr.Iceta even asked for a gesture towards the prisoners - Iceta said: do they deserve such a high sedition penalty?-, a gesture of reverence towards the prisoners, the gesture of the adviser before the validity. And I ask: when will there be a gesture towards the constitutionalists, towards the democrats? [[Applauds]] I want to express my second message to the Catalan Democrats. I want to ask you not to lose hope. In spite of all that they have endured and in spite of all that they will endure, starting this very afternoon, do not lose hope. A political, cultural and moral rearmament of Catalan constitutionalism must and can be promoted. Indoctrination in the classrooms must and can be brought to an end, so that they are taught not in hatred, not in lies, but in respect and truth. We must and can end the unusual discrimination of the Spanish-speaking people and put into value the koiné, the language that binds us and unites us. The obscene manipulation of the public media must and can be ended, so that no more can be called fucking dogs the Mossos d'Esquadra that stifle nationalist violence, throw terrorists, or more recently, encourage the physical annihilation of two critical journalists. The judiciary and the police and the civilian guards must and can be strengthened so that they can and want to live in Catalonia. The withdrawal of the rule of law must and can be reversed because there is no democracy, without law; that is, an alternative must and can be built that offers the other half of Catalonia what it has never had: presence, prestige, budget and power. Nationalism is due to and can be defeated in the ballot box, because, in the end, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, behind the process of mutation of Socialism in an identity card, under the table convened by Mr Sánchez, there is a unfortunate feeling: pessimism. The Socialist Party has become a nationalist because it does not trust the force of freedom and equality, but that force exists and will prevail. And now, Minister, you have the floor again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than indifference. It can even be uneducated. [[Applauds]] But this minister won't be affected. Hearing the words I have just heard in this rostrum, I wonder whether the People's Party wants to be part of the problem or, rather, to remain part of the problem, if they want to be part of the solution or, what would be worse, if they want to remain part of the landscape or, what is the same, of nothingness. [[Applauds]] The answer depends on you. My impression is that they feel absolutely overwhelmed by events and do not know how to act. They have been motionless for so long, that now a Government that arrives, reacts, is resolute and reaches agreements that have absolutely no place in them. Keep it up. Of course, we would like you to be part of the solution, I sincerely say. On your bench there are many people who know me, who know my attitude of dialogue and my attitude is to get to meetings. I would like you to be the responsible party again, the party committed to Spain, the party committed to your institutions, the party with which we come to great agreements of state because this country and its people need it, ultimately that you are the party that you were before you were labeled by others who have close to the bench and before you ended up accepting and considering that any form of dialogue or any form of consensus was a sign to you of weakness. For us, ladies and gentlemen, dialogue is always a strength. We believe in a democracy that is built every day through dialogue. We believe in the will of understanding and the will of collaboration. The great achievement of democratic Spain has been to incorporate all Spaniards, all of them, without any kind of exclusion. Our Constitution is the most evident proof of this. It has allowed us to explore different, different paths, but always within the constitutional framework. It is a Constitution that proclaims political pluralism as an essential principle of our democratic system and of our State; political pluralism and also territorial pluralism. We are strong in diversity precisely because the Constitution we gave ourselves more than forty years ago incorporates that diversity as a great value. When I hear from this rostrum I don't see that Constitution that, as I said before, embraces. On the contrary, it is a Constitution of yours - which is not the one we have, that of 1978 - which limits and excludes. But this Government is going to strive to find solutions, as I said and like to say, to exhaustion, because, in the face of immobilism, in the face of its disqualifying epithets, which are habitual, which are part of its landscape, of course this Government and the parties it represents will be in action. We're not going to resign and we're going to find the deal even if there's no deal, we're going to keep looking for it. You know why? Because it's a constitutional obligation. You are not going to tell me or anyone who is constitutionalist or not. No, it's nobody's estate, and less yours. We've been hearing that speech for a long time from your ranks. And you know what? This country needs something else. And people have voted, with the composition of this House, for something else. So we have to look for her. [[Applauds]] That's the data and the reality, that reality that you run away from and don't count. Have you not realized that it was only with you that unconstitutional laws were passed in the Catalan Parliament? With you, only with you, with your Government, it is when an illegal consultation has taken place in Catalonia. It has been with you that independence has been unilaterally proclaimed and the constitutional order has been subverted. We therefore know what immobilism and rejection of dialogue gives. We know, because it's there; we don't make them up, there's the facts. Therefore, this Government, with you - as would be our wish - but, if not, without you, will try the way of reunion. You can keep making noise, you can keep looking for attention, you can even keep looking for provocation, but you know what I'm telling you? That in this government and in this minister they will always find loyalty and responsibility, we are where we are. That is the great difference, ladies and gentlemen, the great and only difference between you and us. [[Applauds]] I am going to try once again, I am going to ask you to look up and think not only about yourselves, but about the forty-seven million Spaniards and Spaniards, as this government thinks. We have an opportunity for dialogue and we will certainly take advantage of it: there is no room for resignation. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u142	Thank you, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the position of the Government in relation to the repression of political dissent in the Spanish State. [[Señor BUTRAN PAHISSA]] [[File number 172/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u143	Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, into the Government's position on the repression of political dissent in the Spanish State. For your defense, you have the floor, Mr. Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u144	Good morning, Madam President. Mr Minister, the fact is that today this question falls on the same day that the table of dialogue begins and, although you spoke of de-judicialization, despite the fact that you changed the insulting term of the problem of coexistence - as you came to call it - to the one of political conflict, even though you said that the law alone is not enough and you accepted that table of dialogue, despite all this, we do not trust you, because your background supports you, the distant and the closest, in particular since you occupied the portfolio of Minister of the Interior, which is why we wanted to question you today. The repression of independence is not a matter for the PP. You have total continuity with previous governments. We refer to them as political repression of dissent. Surely you will want to deny us the greatest, you will mean that this is the normal development of judicial and police institutions, etc. But no, you treat independence not as a political option anymore, but as a political enemy. To give an example, the same forms of protest that in recent weeks we see that other collectives are leading with other demands in other parts of the Spanish state - I mean, in particular, the farmers, whose demands we of course support -, those same forms of protest, which include roadblocks, railblocks and borderblocks, are not attacked with the same criminalizing tone by political representatives and the media as are those led by Catalan independence. And we will see if they are also persecuted with the same police and judicial zeal with which independence is pursued. We do not wish anyone to be subjected to specific political persecution, but we do note this because they will tell us that such persecution and repression in the case of independence does not exist. Nor is it a purely judicial issue. He'll tell me they're subpoenas and investigations. No, they are part of a climate of political repression that has many manifestations in which the protagonists are the police forces and, in particular, their ministry. These are some of the manifestations I will name below. Although some of these investigations are initiated at the request of a judge, they are police attestations, constructions of the Civil Guard in particular, and sometimes also of the National Police, the ones that build the accusation. Even in some cases the judges end up rejecting, by oversized, disproportionate, out of place, the construction of the crime that the Civil Guard has done. It was the case of the first accusations against the defense committees of the republic, against the CDRs, which resulted from the exile of Adrià Carrasco and the detention and subsequent confinement of Tamara Carrasco. When the National Court received what for the Civil Guard were crimes of rebellion, crimes of terrorism, it dismissed it for lack of substance and ended up in the Catalan courts. It is true that this was at the time of the PP and you will tell me that before it worked differently. Well, with the PSOE in the government and you in the portfolio of the Interior continued the persecution against the CDRs, with an even larger volume in the so-called Operation Judas, which began just over five months ago, with what we all know: that criminalizing climate, those videos of the Civil Guard throwing a door to the ground, those words that run through the media and that irresponsiblely also some political leaders bought and disseminated, explosives, terrorism, etc. This led to the suspension of the rights of detainees at the time of arrest, statements under duress seeking the self-incrimination of the detainees so that this investigation could be squared by the police forces and, in particular, by the Civil Guard. I am talking to you, for example, about the cases of Ferran Jolis and Jordi Ros, who ended up accusing themselves of what the Civil Guard wanted to do to make the politically repressive operation fit for them. In the case of Mr. Ferran Jolis, for example, they entered his house at five minus four in the morning and until ten hours later his rights were not read to him; the Sabadell Bar Association, which was the relevant one, was not notified, and therefore an ex officio lawyer was assigned to him, who was not a person of his trust, whom he did not see until forty-three hours after they entered his house; he declared between twelve and six in the morning - you can imagine under what conditions - he was finally appointed a lawyer of trust, whom he did not see until almost three weeks after his arrest; he was moved with blindfolded eyes and, according to the account, he also believes that he was ingested some substance, by which he did not declare in full use of his powers. In the case of Jordi Ros, his detention was not communicated to the school, so he could not have a trusted lawyer, but an ex officio lawyer. In addition, she stated under duress, such as showing her a picture of her wife showing her what she was doing at the airport at the time and telling her: if you don't tell her what we want you to tell her, she will also be arrested. And finally, in the case of the CDRs, it was the leaking of the summary to the media, which is an ingredient to obtain the political effects of this repression being sought. [[The Lord]] I enter into another question concerning the police forces and their ministry, the extraordinary police deployment that was made on the occasion of the sentence of the Supreme and the protests that it entailed; police deployment with its rubber bullet shotguns - which the Parliament of Catalonia in its day prohibited? that on this occasion four eyes and a testicle were collected; a police deployment that resulted in 240 people arrested, including a photojournalist, and even 30 of them were imprisoned, and some are still there. Yesterday a part of the trial against Charaf and Ibrahim was held, and also remains in Dani Gallardo prison, here in Madrid. The novelty - and that is why we say that everything is part of an operation that seems to have the same political direction - is that, in view of these arrests in the demonstrations, the Prosecutor's Office systematically asked for remand in custody. That is no coincidence, that is not the normal development of the institutions; that is to create a climate of fear, in the same way as is the denunciation of the insults from which many or practically all persons arrested and imprisoned in protests against the Supreme's sentence. The Observatori del Sistema Penal i los Drets Humans carried out immediately after the arrests twenty-two interviews, and all of them reported physical or psychological violence among the detained persons, from not allowing them to speak in Catalan even in communications with their families to attacks on their physical and moral integrity or medical examinations without complying with the rules. [[Show a document]] This investigation made by the Observatori of the Criminal System and the Human Rights puts the hair at the top, for example, with the expressions given to them by the police at the time of their arrest. While they were handcuffing them, others said, 'let's kill him, let's kill him'; 'put him in the van, let's not see him'; 'we'll fuck you up your ass';'red, faggot - beatings, beatings - sons of bitches', etc. And that continued in the van and also in the detention centre, in the police stations. By the way, recovering the infamous memory of the police station of Via Laietana, where so many tortures were seen in their dungeons and which now seems to have recovered as a centre of ill-treatment of detainees; a memory, by the way, with which the police do not live too well. The City Council of Barcelona decided to put in an informative historical memory panel about what had happened at that police station during the Francoism, and that panel has been sabotaged, burned on several occasions. Burn urban furniture at the door of a police station: judge yourself who can be the author of such sabotage. All this, minister, was done by your police; with the collaboration, of course, of the Mossos d`Esquadra, but it is your police, and there is no record, no investigation, but the contrary: you have decorated these agents. And on the nearest dates what we find in Catalonia are people quoted to declare by roadblocks, of which I have already told you - it is about three hundred -, also roadblocks of the Civil Guard, with intimidating situations - perhaps then I will have a moment to extend myself more - and this accompanied by what at the time you called a decree to put an end to the digital Catalan republic, that Aministia International said it favored the previous censorship and the abduction of contents, and this also accompanied by other operations regarding which, although they are from periods of the previous Ministry of the Interior, you do not seem to have made blurry and new account, but rather the opposite. The other day, on questions from Congressman Iñarritu of the Euskal Group Herria Bildu, they said that what denounced a media outlet, La direct, in Catalonia about the infiltration of a member of the State Security Forces and Bodies in our party, in the candidacy of Popular Unity, is not that it was a lie, it was simply a secret. You neither deny nor confirm that there are these infiltrations. Finally, all that I have mentioned should not be part of the judicial or police work in a normal country, nor would it be expected of the most progressive government in history, etc. This is your cop, whom you also honor. This is your police officer, who helps create a climate of fear in Catalonia. This is his police force, which helps create political repression of dissent. In short, this is his police force, which in Catalonia acts as a real occupying force. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u146	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Botran, when I received the text of your question, even before listening to you today, I was particularly drawn to the two concepts contained in your letter which, to some extent, you have reiterated on several occasions: repression and political dissent, concepts which from your group link to the idea of a state, and even add you always Spanish. They are repeated concepts in your intervention, as I have said, and they are concepts that have been widely discussed, as you surely know, in various legal, political and historical studies; concepts in which this Minister and also this Government as you wish to put them into practice cannot coincide in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, repression implies conduct linked to violence from power against the political and social ideas of a particular collective. And proof that there is no repression is that parties like yours, which opposes the whole constitutional system, participate - as it could not otherwise be - with all rights and with all guarantees. Political dissent, for its part, means separating itself from the common doctrine, as the exercise of this action is usually defined, and it is used within dictatorial regimes that do not allow free expression of the ideological opposition, of the political opposition. But, as I said, you are free to express yourself as you are doing, I would miss more!, so it would be more right not to talk about political dissent, but about discrepancies, healthy discrepancies. That is to say, Mr Botran, it is in your diagnosis of the situation of freedoms in Spain that we should have the framework for our debate in this inquiry. His diagnosis, to which he mentioned during his intervention, I believe it has resulted in a very simple reading of reality. You have spoken of various events, on which you have already held the trial, you have already come to the conclusion: the police are guilty, the State is repressive. But you forget that in a rule of law there is a division of powers. As you have said, there are judges, there are judges, there are prosecutors, and they always resolve by applying the law and the legal system. He has spoken of cases where he does not seem to know that the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Mossos d'Esquadra, when they have practiced an entry and registration, have not done so on their own authority, but because a judge has issued a decision temporarily limiting a fundamental right such as the inviolability of the domicile and because a judge has followed up police action, respecting the fundamental rights of those affected by this transitional limitation and with all judicial remedies in this regard. But you, I say again, have already passed judgment; you do not know the principles of defence, contradiction, judicial independence... No, you already know what has happened; you don't need proof, you don't need a trial. That is their rule of law. There would be, according to your manifestation, a State with a unique, monolithic, ferrous thought and which, above all, materializes it in a violent way; a State, Spain - as always you - that prevents, from the use of violence, the exercise of questioning those who do not agree with the official line or try to separate themselves politically, philosophically or even territorially from this unique thought. There would be, in short, and we have seen it in all its intervention, two antagonistic parties: repressive and repressed; persecutors and persecuted; oppressors and oppressed; good and bad. Your Honor, I think it is too simple an analysis of a much more complex reality, an analysis - as I have said - that we cannot share from the government, first of all, because our political system - and it is obvious - is a social and democratic state of law. And if you say it's monolithic, I think it's still a short time in this House to see how monolithic it is. It is a social and democratic State that has one of its fundamental values in political pluralism. That is, it is a democracy, which, moreover, is not militant, does not need to be militant to be strong, and allows those who openly disagree with the system to participate in political life. You know why? Because it is not weak, because it is a strong democracy. It is a rule of law in which there is - and I have reminded you before - separation of powers and in which the different operators of law are subject to the Constitution and the rest of the legal system. Secondly, it is a conceptualization of Spain that goes beyond what the Spanish Constitution says. If you review the different studies of our rights and freedoms by international entities - to which you have not referred - your data, statements and conclusions differ greatly from reality. I'll give you some examples. In the Universal Index of Human Rights prepared by the UN, the United Nations, Spain is defined as a democracy consolidated in human rights and public freedoms, and Spain is also one of the twenty full democracies that exist in the world - one of the twenty full democracies that exist in the world - and our country's recognition of political pluralism and civil liberties, public freedoms, is particularly considerable. We also refer to our country in the World Justice Project as a full-fledged state of law, or in the draft of the Freedom House, where we are said to be a free country, which stands out in indicators such as political and civil rights and freedoms, as I have said before. In this regard, Your Honor, I would like to assess the framework for the recognition of our freedoms defined by our Constitution. I would also like to acknowledge the efforts of Spanish society to boost these democratic developments and, of course, this House. I would like to thank those from the Government, from other Governments or in the exercise of parliamentary work who have fulfilled the aspirations of society and the mandate of the Constitution in various laws of recognition, extension and guarantee of our fundamental rights and public freedoms, which would not be possible in that supposed State that you have tried to define today. Laws such as those relating to equality between men and women, equal marriage, protection against gender-based violence, sexist violence or the latest take into account dignified death make our country, our State, the Spanish State a more dignified society. And in that state that I told you that you have defined this would not be possible. Mr Botran, there is therefore no repression of the political discrepancy in Spain. There is a recognition of the need to resolve - and today it is going to be a good example - within the framework of the rule of law situations such as that which have occurred in Catalonia since the dialogue and the agreement between different, not since the immobilism, inaction and prejudice that you have expressed today, which is a policy in which you coincide surprisingly with a Group such as VOX. And there is also a debate on the need, I would almost dare to say the obligation, to strengthen the quality of our democracy and our system of freedoms, because of course we have to debate in strengthening our democratic system, our democratic qualities, of course. To this end, our progressive Government is working and in this debate we want to make it clear that the valuable contributions of each parliamentary group are relevant. The President of the Government expressed this in the investiture speech, ladies and gentlemen, and it has been moved by the ministers and ministers this week in the presentation of the general outlines of their departments. This is the law on democratic memory, the law on dignified death, the organic law on sexual freedom or the organic law on protection against violence against children and adolescents, which I defended also in the parliamentary seat of the Senate, as well as during my appearance in the Internal Committee. The Ministry of the Interior - it said - will repeal the law on gags and replace it with a new law on modern citizen security, aligned with the constitutional principles and values and offering the Security Forces and Bodies a framework of certainty for their action in the democratic society of the twenty-first century. In addition, it will have in ensuring coexistence one of its major areas of work, which will be structured into three axes: the fight against domination and hatred, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, as well as a modern prison policy. In conclusion, Mr President. Mr Botran, in Spain there is no repression of political discrepancy, I repeat: There is no repression of political discrepancy. In Spain there is a democratic rule of law that guarantees rights and freedoms, and believe me that protecting them, but also updating and expanding them, is one of the highest objectives of this progressive government and of the State Security Forces and Bodies. Look, our State Security Forces and Bodies, our police, our civilian guards, the Mossos d'équadra to which you referred, have among their members many people born after 1978, with the Constitution, who have conformed to democratic values of this society that has enacted laws such as gender equality, against discrimination, on equal marriage; they are people with those values and by wearing a uniform they do not change their values or their heads in their way of acting. They are as democrats as any of us - I would have to say these obvious things more - because wearing a suit or tie doesn't make me more democrat doesn't make me live the democrat values in one way or another and, to you, not wearing it doesn't make you more democrat than the others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u148	Minister, you say that I am issuing a judgment and that, however, there are very few judgments accusing the State Security Forces and Corps of these issues of ill-treatment, torture. Do you know why there are no sentences? Because there's no investigation. Do you know why there's no investigation? By judges like you. That is why the Spanish State has been sentenced five times by the European Court of Human Rights in cases you were carrying out for failing to sufficiently investigate torture. How do you want there to be sentences if there's not even the relevant investigation? Secondly, he cites some indicators and forgets many others. The UN's human rights review does not exactly mark them well, but indicates some warnings of what the Spanish judicial police prison political system can generate. - It would be good to take note too. As for your digital law, which you called the law against the Catalan Republic, you will already tell me if that does not have full political orientation to pursue a claim, a project such as the Catalan Republic. In the face of this Amnesty International project, he told them that his decree favored pre-censorship and government control over content that hangs on the networks. The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention also noted that the existence of Catalan political prisoners did not take place and that they should be released immediately. You are not the referent of these advanced democracies that you quote, you are not the referent of the most guaranteed countries in human rights. To whom I have heard you refer is Erdogan's Minister of the Interior who, at the time, when it was requested by a British newspaper, said: After all, what we do with the Kurdish mayors is what is being done in the Spanish state with the independence leaders. Those are the ones you take as references. Fear gives me, therefore, that modern citizen security law, as you say, with which they will replace the existing one. Mr Marlaska, today that this table of dialogue begins its course, we point out that the main risk of this table of dialogue is that, in the face of an apparent normality of equality between the parties, an apparent normalization of the political situation, below continue that repression work, continue that work of judicial files, police investigations, etc., which treat Catalonia as a sort of special north-east area, as I said before, where its police forces act as real occupying forces; before which it is most pertinent to ask for their withdrawal under the slogan of 'out of the occupation forces'! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u149	Thank you. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Botran, I have listened carefully to your second speech and I must say that we still disagree. I would like to reiterate that there is no repression in Spain at all, and neither is there any political discrepancy. You were talking about the European Court of Human Rights, about those five convictions for not investigating possible cases of ill-treatment of detainees. I will tell you one question: Spain is the least sued country before the European Court of Human Rights and the least condemned. That is a reality, although it must not satisfy us, because a conviction by the European Court of Human Rights is not something that one can satisfy, of course, but reads well. You have said this - and it is not for taking responsibility from me - it was for not investigating, but it is that who speaks to you, and being a judge at that time, was not competent to investigate ill-treatment, but another territorial judge, not the judge who had brought the case. The filing decisions were issued by another five different judges. Read it well. But I take it, because I take those resolutions as my own. Ladies and gentlemen, last week I had an inquiry, as you will know, of the other parliamentary group with which I told you earlier that you were a little close, VOX. Only seven days ago, in this very atrium, it was said that the Government, the prosecutor's office - as you said today - dozens of people on the treatment boards - not this, because it was another inquiry and another issue - and hundreds of prison officials, both from the Generalitat and from the State Administration - note, Botran, state institutions - were joyfully jumping the legislation; that Spain was a very serious country, because those who wanted to break it had a presence in institutions and a leading role in political life; and, above all, that those who violated the law acted with impunity and their acts were left unanswered. Today you accuse us of doing the opposite, radically the opposite. Ironically, that interpellation, like yours this week, manifests a fault, and let me say so, of knowledge and rigour regarding the institutions, the rule of law. And at least, Mr. Botran, they're wrong. Your Honor, we can agree that the former People's Party government erred in its policy - I would say with its non-political rather - towards Catalonia. We can disagree on the various measures - you have referred to some of them - that have been taken. I would even invite you, as long as you allow me, both you and your sidekick, to have a more honest debate, to reflect critically on the role of your party, if possible. But I say and repeat in this House that in our country, in Spain, the Constitution recognizes rights and freedoms. Spain has a division of powers, as you know, and the law is enforced; and the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are also enforced. That is the reality, not the one described from simple analysis and extreme visions. Mr Botran, I believe that in some of your approaches your group and you confuse the powers of the State. The sentences are not changed in this House; the law enforcement is not negotiated in this House; in this House, Your Honor, the government is controlled, as it is today, and the action of the government is also promoted. This is the reality, that of a full democracy, where the exercise of freedoms within the framework of legality is respected. Within this reality, I reiterate that the Government, this progressive Government, will have in the protection, protection, extension and improvement of our rights and freedoms one of its main objectives, to which I invite you. As for what has finally been mentioned about the departure of the State Security Forces and Corpses from Catalonia, I tell you that the State Security Forces and Corpses, the National Police and the Civil Guard, will continue in Catalonia as we will follow the rest of the Spaniards, who we think of one way and think of another, and we only want an area of freedom and security for all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. We then proceeded to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals, which were not raised at yesterday's sitting. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the vote will take place at tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u152	Motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the steps that the Government will take to depoliticize constitutional bodies. For the initiative group and to defend the motion and the amendment tabled, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u153	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My first words have to be for the vigorous condemnation of the vile murder of a woman in Andalusia, today - the twelfth victim in Spain, the third in Andalusia -, victim of the macho violence. [[Applauds]] We brought to plenary last week an inquiry to the first Vice-President of the Government, in order to explain to us whether the Government was going to take some steps to depoliticize the appointments of the constitutional organs of the State and of the Spanish public administration, but she did not answer it, but the Minister of Justice. That question becomes a motion today, and I say that we are going to accept the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party and also those tabled by the VOX Group; amendments which are reasonable and which ultimately broaden the objective appointment by virtue of merit and capacity of senior officials of the public administration, and some purely technical issues are improved by the People's Party. We accept these amendments because this is politics, it is coming here to Parliament to compromise, to talk, to reach agreements, here in Parliament, in the institutions, not at that table that they are going to set up this afternoon and on which we are not really going to find the Spanish constitutionalists, that anti-democratic pantomime, represented. However, by focusing on the issue that brings us here today, my group has put forward two initiatives to achieve precisely this depoliticization of the constitutional bodies, responding to a number of needs that are felt by judges, judges, prosecutors and the whole of the judicial and prosecutor's associations and which, however, the Government does not want to attend because it wants to follow the same line, because it does not understand that politics, precisely, consists of meeting the demands of the collectives. And on these two measures there is no doubt that the collectives support the depoliticization of appointments in the main constitutional organs of the judiciary. I summarise them briefly - the whole House knows them already -: On the one hand, we want the twelve members of the General Council of the Judiciary to be elected by judges and magistrates and, above all, that the appointments in the judicial dome be made by means of a competition of objective merits and not to name the friends of those who govern in the General Council of the Judiciary, then bringing to the contentious-administrative way those appointments - indisputable appointments, undisputed appointments -, which is what you do when you always name someone, when you propose the appointment of someone; and the same for the Attorney General of the State, so that in the last ten years you have not held any elective or political appointment positions and really have an absolutely technical profile. The Government's response has already been noted both in the Committee on Justice and in the plenary session last week. We in the Committee on Justice had the pleasure of listening to Dolores Delgado, who is now going to be the state's attorney general, former socialist minister, former socialist deputy and the government's attorney general. The last government minister is Dolores Delgado. This appointment really seemed to us to be an unprecedented democratic anomaly. She, we do not know if for the purpose of making a joke, told us that it was a strength to be Minister of Justice to be then Attorney General of the State, lacking the seriousness of the Commission of Justice. It seems that the principles of objectivity, neutrality and independence that apply to all prosecutors should not govern the person in charge of the Prosecutor's Office. He did not clarify whether he was going to abstain in the Ábalos case, in the Villarejo case, in the case of the trial, and filled us with stupefaction when he was pleased that a politician like her was finally going to direct the investigation of the criminal cases that the Minister of Justice wants before the end of the year left in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office. I told him that the Socialist Party is dedicated to raising the threshold of democratic pain and I wondered what else we were going to see. Well, it hasn't been long. This weekend we have seen that the second vice president of the government is going to be the one to control the CNI. I'm afraid to think what's coming now. Of course, I recognize their great capacity as screenwriters of terror. Ladies and gentlemen, the minister here told us that the General Council of the Judiciary is a political body, that the judiciary is something political, that in reality what happens is that in the General Council of the Judiciary it becomes political, that nothing is going to change, that everything is fine, that the Socialist Party has not come here to change things, but to take advantage of those that it already has to give to its friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - I think you are going to vote in favour of this motion - welcome to this position of maintaining the independence of the judiciary, of the election of the twelve members of the Council by judges and magistrates. Please do not intervene in this unworthy pie of the Socialist Party, which yesterday told us that it offers you nine of the twenty members of the General Council of the Judiciary. I do not know if others around here will participate in that cake - Republican Left, Podemos -; I hope that VOX will not do so and that I will also vote in favour of this motion. It confused us, indeed, because it confused what is an organ of political designation with what is a party organ. What the Minister of Justice said here, in short, is that the General Council of the Judiciary is the niche where we place the friends and not the best. But I am very concerned about something else; I am very concerned about the four vacancies in the Constitutional Court that we have to fill in the Congress of Deputies. Are we going to keep talking about conservative and progressive magistrates? What worries me most: Are we going to talk now about magistrates of the Constitutional Court populists, communists, nationalists, separatists? Are we going to get to the top of our laughs by talking about a judge of the Constitutional Anti-System Court in one of the bodies that has precisely defended our Constitution more thoroughly and that with regard to the disobedience of their mandates has led to the imprisonment of convicted coupsmen? I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this motion and to have an independent justice and prosecutor's office for the very benefit of judges, judges and prosecutors. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Hernández spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u155	Good morning, Members of Parliament. This motion by Citizens coincides with the VOX Group's view that an advanced democracy requires the depoliticization of constitutional bodies. However, we believe that this is insufficient and incomplete. This motion includes, for example, the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Attorney-General's Office, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman and Spanish Broadcasting. However, it forgets the other supervisory bodies, foundations, public enterprises and autonomous bodies, that is, what constitutes the General Administration of the State and the State public sector, and that is why this amendment of addition that we are proposing is justified. Many of these bodies are very well-remunerated resting places for retired politicians when not directly burned, whose only merit is to be close to the party that supports the incumbent government. Depoliticisation goes hand in hand with transparency and, if we go to the transparency indices of public enterprises, for example - drawn up by Transparency International, which examines 45 public enterprises - we have a clearly improved level of transparency and openness: it establishes a score of 45.3 out of 100, with a turnover of this group of companies amounting to 25 billion euros, with a total investment in assets of 227 billion euros and occupying 140 000 workers; and the level of prevention of corruption and compliance with transparency and good governance is 30.6 out of 100 points. This indicates, on the one hand, the weight of the public sector in the Spanish economy and also that there is a long way to go. We want the managers of these companies, foundations and bodies to be appointed by the principles of merit, competence and capacity, with respect to criteria of suitability and professional experience and, of course, through procedures that guarantee advertising and competition. He spoke at the beginning of a forgetfulness in the motion regarding these public bodies and enterprises. However, this week we have learned that the Citizens' Group has voted against a motion by the VOX Group in the Cantabria Parliament so that the organic positions of the parties cannot run public enterprises. I do not want to think, because one might think, that the Citizens Group seeks the depoliticization of organs and public enterprises only when it interests it, a sort of selective depoliticization or at times. I therefore ask the Citizens' Group to support our amendment, which perfectly complements the motion put forward by the Citizens' Group, so that we really have a commitment to the depoliticization of the institutions and other public bodies. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u156	Thank you so much. Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u157	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to speak for the first time in this rostrum, in the centre of democracy, and to do so on a subject I consider to be fundamental, which is the improvement of the quality of our democratic institutions, the improvement of the quality of our democracy. On this fundamental issue, we share Mr Bal's concern, we share his goal of improving the quality of our democracy, we share the spirit of his motion, and we will therefore support it. We thank you for accepting our amendments. That is true, we maintain discrepancies and nuances, but I am sure that in the future we will have the opportunity to discuss them and negotiate on them. Mr Bal, we share the problem you raise with regard to the problem of trust in the institutions. Indeed, every poll says it, citizens say it on the street. On the other day, you quoted the Eurobarometer survey of 2019, March, and showed that there is a decrease in the confidence of Spanish citizens in the institutions, of all Europeans, and that our confidence is lower than the European average. There's something we need to do. It is true that we disagree with the criticism so harsh that you make of the quality of our public administration, we disagree. Our public administration has a great quality and, as a lawyer of the brilliant state, it is an example. That, of course, must continue to work on it. Perhaps what is happening, Mr Bal, is that you are blaming certain institutions, including the public administration, for what is essentially the responsibility of this Government, for what the Socialist Government and the United Nations have done, we can in recent months. There's the problem and, the problem, it's in partyism. Mr Bal, you use the concept of politicization, depoliticization, but I would use partyism, because indeed the constitutional bodies are political, as the Minister of Justice said the other day. I agree with him, we cannot administer them, indeed. The Minister of Justice - he is not here today, he must be preparing the afternoon table, the issue that you care about, this afternoon - he also told you, Mr Bal, and I quote: Do not destroy the confidence of citizens in justice and participate in strengthening it. But it is that, gentlemen of the Left Bank, who are destroying trust in justice and in institutions are you. They do so when they appoint a former deputy as State Attorney General, excommunicates until yesterday, and is known for their partisan decision-making. They do so when they talk about reforming the Penal Code to lower the sedition penalty. And what to say, gentlemen of the Left Bank, because you question the confidence in institutions when this afternoon you are going to make a bilateral table with ultra-nationalist parties that do not believe in our Constitution, that do not believe in our rule of law, that do not believe in our constitutional bodies. That is destroying trust in justice. By the way, do this afternoon's meeting call for recognition of diversity? That's what the President of the Government said this morning. For you it is to recognize diversity to maintain a bilateral table with ultra-nationalist parties and to negotiate with them even Article 2 of the Constitution. Because the truth is that the other part - not that of the socialist government, the other part - says that they will negotiate with you nothing more and nothing less than Article 2 of the Constitution, which they will talk about self-determination. That is destroying trust in institutions. That is why we ask the bench of the left - the PSOE basically; we have no hope in the United We can - to sit with us, with Citizens, with all the constitutionalist parties to talk about this, of the quality of democracy, and to give up to sit this afternoon with all those parties that do not believe in our democracy, that do not believe in our institutions, that do not believe in our Constitution. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u158	Thank you very much. For the position-setting round, Mr García Adanero has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. What a day you've chosen, Mr. Bal. It is true that it is not your problem, because it was yesterday when we had to discuss this, but just the day the President of the Government is going to bury the Constitution - this afternoon - we are debating here how to lead the constitutional bodies. This afternoon the President of the Government is going to bury the Constitution; logically, it is not the best day. It is clear that the constitutional bodies are very important, they are so important that the minimum would be to pay attention to what the Constitution itself says and to comply with it, but there is the circumstance - I repeat - that the President of the Government of Spain brings to his own headquarters, to Moncloa, to the disabled President - it did not help him to humble himself before him in Catalonia - so that this submission would be shared with all the citizens of Spain. This is not a question of dialogue yes or no dialogue, it is a question of what this dialogue is, because when dialogue is the self-determination of a part of Spain, it is obvious that one cannot dialogue, because with the unity of Spain one cannot negotiate. [[Applauds]] One, however President of the Government of Spain may be, cannot negotiate with the unity of Spain. [[Applauds]] Today Mr Sánchez has told us something very curious, which could be applied; today Mr Sánchez has told us - he was telling the person responsible for one of the parties in Catalonia - that one thing is the social majority and another thing is the parliamentary majority, and it is true. It is true that Mr Sánchez is president with a parliamentary majority, but it is also true that he is not president by a social majority, because those who voted against his investiture have more citizens' votes than those who voted in favour. [[Applauds]] I'm saying it so that if you want to apply the story to others, you can apply it to yourself. In that sense, we understand that talking about constitutional issues today is a paradox of what the Socialist Party is doing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u160	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u161	Good morning. Thank you, President. We wanted to intervene because we share the criticism of the appointments of the high judicial leaders of the State. It is a political discourse that the independent left has been making for many years. We agree on the politicization of the high judiciary, on the link between the governing bodies of the judges and the two major parties, which have been the PP and the PSOE. We agree that there are rotating doors between the Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the executive branch. We could talk, for example, about Mr. Carlos Lesmes, who passed from the People's Party Executive to the General Council of the Judiciary; or Mr. Manuel Marchena, whom you so much applaud for the ruling of the Supreme Court, who was a prosecutor, then head of the cabinet of the State Attorney General in the Aznar Government and then went to the Supreme Court. This is a problem, because the high judges of the State mark doctrine and mark doctrine to the courts of first instance, and not only mark doctrine in independence, but above all mark class doctrine. The Constitutional Court, among the many laws that suspended the Catalan Parliament in the referendum legislature, suspended the ILP of the Mortgage Affected Platform that guaranteed access to housing, Law 24/2015. Do you know why they put her down? Because it was a law that ran counter to the interests of oligopolies. But that doesn't just happen to the Independenceists. Yesterday we were in court because a partner of ours had to testify not to answer VOX. Do you know who was in the courts of first instance? Do you know what the class status of most people who were in that hallway was? What brought them together was that they were poor in every way. Do you know what's going on? That you criticize the appointments of the high magistrates of the State, but to maintain the judicial Gerontocracy, to maintain the corporatism of the high magistrates and to maintain conservatism. They want justice for their people, for the high lawyers of the state, for the brands, for the people who don't need justice, because in the Spanish state we need justice, we are the poor. I'm done, Mr. President, and I'm sorry. We are therefore going to vote against it, because we are diametrically opposed to the approach you are taking. And we ask them: Do you think that a judge is above good and evil and does not make a political interpretation of law? That doesn't make any sense. Do you want to work for justice?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u162	Finish, please, Mrs. Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u163	It's over, Mr. President. Do you want to work for justice? Put resources in first instance, put resources in place for judges fighting corruption, put resources in place for all those who work day by day to defend the interests of the poor, but stop doing politics with justice and stop using justice for their class interests. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u164	Thank you so much. Mr Iñarritu has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u165	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember that plenum of investiture which took place on Christmas holidays on a weekend and which surprised us all because there was no rush to do so? It turns out that afterwards we knew that it was, that it was in a hurry because the powers of the State - in this case, the Central Electoral Board and the Supreme Court - were willing to pressure and sabotage so that that Government would not go ahead. Curious, isn't it? This shows that it is obvious that there are powers of the state - that there is a deep state, that deep state to which Gramsci referred - that have their own agenda; they have their own agenda and think they are invested with a mission, that mission of 'united in the universal' or -what was that like?- 'unit of destiny in the universal'. Mr Casado said in that first debate that a government was going to form against the state. It was categorical. I believe that it is precisely the opposite that the state or, rather, sectors of the state are against this government. They wanted to prevent their conformation, and now they're trying to sabotage it. Why? Because he's got his own agenda and he's willing to do anything. And when I say everything, I mean that you are willing to have political prisoners and prisoners, you are willing to give images like that of October 1 in front of the world, you are willing to endure a speech like that of the head of state of that October 3 or you are willing to approve that colonial system of 155 against the citizenship of an entire territory, like Catalonia. Until now, the Government and those powers of the State had gone hand in hand. They had the same schedule and there was no problem. When is there a problem? When those schedules differ. When it seems that, finally, the Government of the State, with common sense, sits at a table trying to resolve by political channels what it should never have abandoned, the path of dialogue, these sectors get nervous and try to sabotage. It is curious that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has brought this proposal, bearing in mind that the politicization of some State bodies has not prevented it from taking measures such as challenging the candidatures of today's MEPs, Mr Puigdemont, Mrs Clara Ponsatí and Mr Toni Comín, and has brought this issue even to the Constitutional Court, as you said, a politicized body. There was no problem there. Nor have they had a problem in denouncing President Torra for a banner and bringing him to the Office of the Prosecutor, which his partners said was fine-tuning, and that this case is now in criminal proceedings in the Supreme Court, which his partners said they controlled through the back door. There was no problem there. It should also be remembered that, before the Central Electoral Board - that so politicized one - it was precisely a person appointed and proposed by Citizens who carried out all the procedures against Mr Junqueras and his colleagues. There was no problem with politicization there, was there? There it was all right, normal. [[The lady]] We, we are independentists, but this does not take away so that we do believe that the more neutral, the more depoliticized both justice and the constitutional organs - as you call them - the better it will be for any society, also for this one. But, of course, we believe that it not only goes hand in hand, we believe that we must also make an integral reform of justice, because this is deeper, it comes from afar. The institutions must be defeated, because beyond the myth of the exemplary Transition, it must be remembered that after that Transition the same judges, the same military, the same police, the same kings continued, and forty years later their heirs and heirs think they are invested in a mission, have their own agenda and are ready for everything. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u166	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u167	Thank you very much, President. Citizens present to us a motion that is rather an accession; it responds to a manifest nature in which the accession of political parties, not even parliamentary groups, is called for, so that they will not be involved in political negotiations on candidates to fill vacancies in the so-called constitutional and constitutionally relevant bodies, a claim that, in our view and in terms of parliamentary law, is inconsistent with the question that it brings about and that, from a parliamentary logic, seems to us to be a nonsense. Only the last letter of the last point of the motion responds to the nature of the motion. It urges the Government to bring in legislative proposals for the necessary depoliticization and neutrality of those bodies, and in particular for judicial removal officers to be elected only by judges and magistrates in the General Council of the Judiciary, and for the election of the Office of the Prosecutor as a self-amendment by this House. With regard to the Office of the Prosecutor, we will have the opportunity to speak throughout the legislature, because the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office is an issue that is in line with the future Code of Criminal Procedure announced to us by the Government. And with regard to the General Council of the Judiciary, I would like to point out that there are no perfect models, but that in any of the three existing in our environment to select the members of the judiciary government - namely, the American, the continental European and those of the judiciary councils - political power is involved in one way or another, read the Legislative or Executive Branch, or in the appointment of judges or in the autonomous body entrusted with judicial status. And in all these models there are debates and blockades, as we know in the United States, Germany, Italy, Belgium or in any other country, without it being possible, moreover, to claim that the election of judicial deputies by their peers is a constitutional requirement in Spain. The TC has strongly denied this in its three reference judgments: 45/1986, 108/1986 and 191/1996. Nor is it deduced from the will of the constituents, nor from the same constitutional text, nor from the purpose pursued by it, nor is it derived from judicial independence itself. Nor is the General Council of the Judiciary, as the Constitutional Court has also said, an expression of the self-government of judges and its representation. The only thing the Constitution points out from the General Council is that it will be autonomous in its functions and will not be subordinated to the other powers. Beyond what is said, we consider that it is judicial corporatism that, through judicial associations, is mingled with political parties to often arbitrarily decide judicial governmental appointments, as they point out, and this intervener does not say, the judicial manifestos not promoted by associations in denouncing that the honorary cursus has no reward but affinity or friendly relations with some members of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the General Council is a body of constitutional dimension and with undoubted significance, and it is not inconsistent, from the very idea of separation of powers and from the brakes and counterweights of any democratic system, to compensate for the power given to judges, who are the majority in the Council that administers their legal status, with the counterweight of parliamentary designation, which is shared by this House and by the judicial career itself. In this matter of the Council, as in the other bodies mentioned in the motion, we are faced with an essentially political problem which affects the balance of powers and which must receive a political solution through a constitutional convention based on the recovery of consensus on the fundamental points on which coexistence and the institutions on which it is based are based. It is not for this reason, in our view, to propose, as is done in the motion, the depoliticization of the collective decision, giving rise to a technocratic kidnapping; nor to speak of politics as a state of corruption, associating it with something perverse, and less in composite societies such as ours, with diverse and even antagonistic views and ideologies; nor to promote an accelerated discourse on the delegitimization of politics that only leads to the delegitimization of the institutions representative of citizen participation and finally of democracy itself. I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u168	Thank you, Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u169	Mr Bal Francés, you should not be unaware of your formation and provenance, as the professor and also a lawyer who came from this House, Mr Santaolalla, remind us that the same Constitution and the legislator left the door open to political influence in the designation of a large part of the bodies you cite, even the very note of your constitutional independence was accepted with little conviction and not little contradiction. The constituent knew perfectly - and I am finished, president - that, being the members of these bodies appointed by others of strictly political and plural composition, the tendency to designate from among the most competent to the closest ones was inevitable. And what is clearly inevitable is, as you propose, not to comply with the rules until they are changed, along with beatings in the chest for the different ways of complying with the Constitution and the legal order that occur in this House. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. We can agree, without precedent, on some of the things that Citizens pose, but this almost seraphic innocence with which some have defended depoliticization... what do you want me to say to them? For Citizens. In 2016, you made Mariano Rajoy president and had two years to do things, until this House voted the motion of censure. They needed their votes and I think they did little to reverse this situation. Now that you're presenting a motion, it seems fine to me, it seems legitimate to me, but, anyway... Then they had the ability to do and they did little. I'm sorry that you're the one who introduced her and that it's her first day. There are people who have been in this House for a long time, who probably didn't want to go out and defend this. The PP thing is hypocritical... More expensive than a bag of kids, my grandmother used to say. They changed the absolute majority of the Radio and Television Act so that they could bring in a gentleman who was congenial with the PP and who, in addition, boasted, as president of Radiotelevision, that he was voting for the PP and would continue to vote for the PP. May they now be the most changing of the law... They have had Senate spokesmen who have boasted that they had placed their own on the General Council of the Judiciary and even a minister who said: the prosecutor tunes it to you. After the PP mangonium inside all organs, now come here as if they will land again... I'm done. We sincerely believe that the system of choice needs to be improved, but I would not be entirely at ease if it were the judges who chose each other. I mean it with all conviction. We understand that it must be a more transparent and pluralistic system.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u172	Mr. Baldoví, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u173	I'm done. I agree with the last part, where it is said that some things have to be brought here, so that we can gain independence and, above all, respect for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bal, I have followed you very carefully and I have not managed to draw the clear water. He says he wants to depoliticize justice, but he is not in favour of a political negotiation, of a political dialogue leading to a dialogue table. I mean, he wants to depoliticize justice, but he doesn't want to get what's political out of justice. You will really have to explain it more clearly, because I find it difficult to follow it. I am a nationalist - not ultra, that of ultra I reserve it for you - and I do believe in the rule of law, and as I believe in the rule of law, I believe that the rule of law allows everything. The Constitution also allows everything and allows everything to be talked about, the right to self-determination as well, and the day a majority wants it, they have no doubt that it will be so. They want to depoliticize justice and there we agree, because it is obvious that for too many years it has not been working well, because it is working, as they have said, on criteria of party democracy. They want to depoliticize justice, but for years now we have seen that we first choose who should be the president of the General Council of the Judiciary and then choose the members who are free to choose who is already elected. It is clear that this practice must be eradicated, but the system is never to be left in the hands of the officials themselves, the judges themselves, because, as you know, the legal profession, the legal elite professions have a high conservative bias. I refer to experience. We have an empirical experience, it is the Judicial Ethics Commission: six members, clearly escorted to the right and with a large presence of Opus Dei. I don't think that represents Spanish society today. [[Rumors]] Don't get excited, please. It is clear that things must be reformed, but it is not the way, as I said, to leave it in the hands of professions markedly scoured to the right. If it is about improving the democratic quality, bring us a proposal - then we will be very pleased to support it - telling us who, how and why the head of state should be chosen; bring us a proposal on how the President of the Republic should be chosen and we will give you our enthusiastic support. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u176	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u177	Thank you, President. Good morning. Look, it is surreal that we are in this House today talking about the depoliticization of constitutional organs with a motion, with a motion! As serious and important as this issue is, we are doing it with a motion! Really? It is also the result of an inquiry by the Citizens' Group, which has been the handle of the People's Party, the most corrupt party in Europe, on many issues. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Hala!]] You - the Citizens Group - accuse anyone of being politicized when they don't think like you, when the politicization of constitutional organs is known all over the world. Now, when you talk about not politicizing it is because you do not want a progressive parliamentary majority to separate those who have the PP card from those who hold office, these spaces in these organs. But I am not saying anything that is not known, because the Greek report - and we again resort to the famous Greek report of 21 June 2019 - put the finger back on the sore by warning Spain that the Achilles heel of the Spanish judiciary remains unaffected: its politicization. The Greek report makes it very clear that the governance structures of the judiciary are not perceived as impartial and independent. Six years ago - six years ago - he recommended changing the form of appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, but it is clear that no action has been taken to date. But, more than that, Greco emphasizes to face the risks of the rotating doors, and I want to remember here a few names: Luis de Guindos, José María Aznar, Felipe González, Cristina Garmendia, Pedro Solbes, Ángel Acebes, Javier Solana, Josep Borrell and a long et cetera. But Greco not only talks about the judicial bodies and the revolving doors in public sector companies, but also calls for an improvement of the internal mechanisms for the prevention of corruption of the National Police and the Civil Guard. Citizens, when you or the PP speak of depoliticization of justice or when the PSOE itself, in its open proposal for a common progressive agenda speaks of independent justice, are implicitly recognizing that it is politicized and not independent, and this is particularly serious if we take into account that justice, the judiciary is or should be the great guarantor of the rule of law and the separation of powers, especially controlling the executive power in the face of its excesses. Not in vain in the Constitutional Court, the constitutional body that should guarantee neutrality the most, is where politicization is most perceived. In fact, the Constitutional Court of the 1980s, with judges instructed by Francoism, was much more progressive in the defence of individual and collective rights and freedoms than the current Constitutional Court, not to mention the hooliganism of the General Council of the Judiciary and of a Court of Auditors that has turned a blind eye while being robbed of its doors and which now pursues Catalan politicians only because of the simple fact of fulfilling the mandate of the people of Catalonia. [[Several Members: Hala!]] But if you insist so much that the constitutional and judicial bodies are politicized, I must understand that you are recognizing that the general cause against independence, and therefore the trial and sentencing of the process, are also so. They are therefore recognizing that it is a political conflict and that judicial bodies have been used for partisan and political purposes to silence and end independence. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to repeat to you the latest data from the CIS or the study that the General Council of the Spanish Bar has issued on this issue, and they conclude that the trust that citizens have in the administration of justice is on the ground. There is no doubt that there are judges who are politicized or who distill their own ideology in their sentences, as some Machist or ultranationalist judges have done, or as is clearly seen in the sentence against our Catalan independence leaders, in which a court, annihilating the division of powers itself, interprets the law in a way contrary to a Legislative that expressly removed from the Criminal Code the offence of convening a referendum. The problem is not that there are politicized judges - I am finishing, Madam President - who make judgments that respond more to their ideology than to the law, the problem is that there are no mechanisms to prevent it and correct it. Without a doubt, the great problem underlying this is the existence of a political culture in which some parties aspire to control justice and place it at their command and which value judgements not on the basis of whether or not they conform to the laws adopted by this Parliament, but whether or not they conform to their own ideology. Look in the mirror...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u178	Mrs. Telechea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u179	I'm done, Madam President. Look in the mirror before talking about politicization of constitutional organs and first eradicate this politicization of their desires and claws. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u181	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, institutions in a democratic country are not apolitical. Apolitical was the Franco dictatorship, as the dictator said. The Legislative Power has a political orientation, which the people have decided by voting, and that must be respected, and the democratic political power, the Executive Power, has a political program - says the Spanish Constitution -. Political pluralism is therefore a requirement for the functioning of all the powers and institutions of the State. A purported principle of neutrality or depoliticization of the institutions has no recognition in the Spanish Constitution or in other democratics of our environment. It is undemocratic to prevent popular sovereignty from being taken into account in the elections of constitutional bodies. Citizens in this motion demand neutrality when the Constitution demands objectivity of the public administration, objectivity of which you lack, for example, in Murcia when approving the parental pin. The problem of the Spanish administration is not the lack of professionalization or talent or the lack of efficiency of officials. You in your motion hide the real problems of the Administration: the lack of resources, of investment, of the means of work, the lack of personnel, as a result of right-wing cutback policies that have led to the amortization of the jobs of the public administrations and that have prevented them from renewing because of the non-application of the replacement rate. The proper functioning of the Administration requires an end to corruption, which attacks the efficiency, talent and professionalism of public administrations. There are over 260 cases of corruption by the People's Party, and experts say that this has cost the public administration around EUR 100 billion. At the United We have taken steps to put an end to the impediments that the Administration of Justice has had to be efficient in pursuing corruption and, therefore, we have put forward the proposal to repeal section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act, a concrete measure to improve the efficiency of the Administration. And we are committed to choosing the most appropriate and capable people to hold institutional responsibilities, because what we are not going to allow is that it is the elites who choose the responsibilities of the institutions. [[Applauds]] Spain is not a court of illustrious and composite surnames, of powerful families, of economic groups or diverse powers that never compete in the elections but pretend to govern us. Mr Bal, with regard to the election of the General Council of the Judiciary, in no country in our field in any - France, the United Kingdom, Germany - are elected by the judges themselves to the governing bodies of the Judiciary, but the legislative, executive or even both powers are involved. And I'll tell you more. Even in the United States, state judges are elected by popular vote. It is not the members of every power of the State who must choose that power of the State; that is undemocratic, it is endogenous. Voters and their representatives should elect the institutions as directly as possible. It is not the deputies who are to elect the following General Courts, it is not the officials and ministers who elect the Executive and it is not the judges and magistrates who elect the General Council of the Judiciary. Forget it. [[Applauds]] Spain is not a census or elite democracy. We want the widest participation of voters in the election of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors or the Spanish Broadcasting Control Bodies. And we do not accept his lessons on supposed depoliticization or neutrality of the organs of the public administration, because it is the right ones that always put the State and the administration at the service of their interests, controlling the Second Chamber, from behind, said Mr. Cosidó; the case of Ubaldo Nieto, president of the Court of Auditors, donor of box B of the People's Party; Andrés Olero, seventeen years deputy of the People's Party, appointed judge of the Constitutional Court; Francisco Pérez de los Cobos, militant of the PP, president of the Constitutional Court; Carlos Lesmes, twice Director General of Justice with Mr. Aznar. But look, you, who have not had time to do so, in February 2020 you have put the Chief of Citizens' Press in Andalusia, Desiree García-Escribano, as Deputy Director of Information for Canal Sur. So neutral and depoliticized do you want it to be the choice of Spanish Radio Television advisors? [[Applauds]] Obviously, we are going to vote no to your proposal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u182	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. For the Socialist Group, Mr Elorza González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u183	President, ladies and gentlemen, what Citizens have presented here today in this motion does not cease to be a representation of the populist drift that Citizens have been projecting since a few months ago. That image and that merely populist political project, which speaks to us in this text of constitutional bodies and a General Administration in which neutrality, depoliticization, the non-existence of political affinities must prevail, imply, from our point of view, a political system with which we do not agree at all. In addition, you are making a truly catastrophic approach to the functioning of constitutional bodies and other regulatory or controlling bodies. And it is not that Parliament should not do this, at a time like the current one when we must all strive to gain prestige for Parliament and regain the confidence of citizens in this institution and in others, but that, in fact, what you are proposing are new, changes in the choice of some of these bodies, which are certainly contradictory, even unconstitutional. What democratic legitimacy is behind the election of the jurists of the General Council of the Judiciary by the collective of judges and judges themselves? What is the democratic legitimacy of this system? If you were to tell me that, in reality, it is for there to be a direct election for citizenship in a ballot box, that would not be constitutional but would have an explanation; but to encourage judicial corporatism, the union of all jurists, not guaranteeing that system a more independent General Council of the Judiciary, that is a grave mistake. On the other hand, you also raise in this motion - and the other groups on the right support it as if such a thing - something that is also unconstitutional, which is the appointment, the election of the Office of the Attorney-General of the State by Parliament, in this case, when the Constitution assigns that power, that competence, to the Government. So you, who teach constitutionalism and give and remove constitutional party status to some or others, are in serious contradiction. [[Applauds]] But there's an even bigger one, there's a very serious contradiction. You say: we must depoliticize the constitutional organs. Well, but we've all lived here for months in this House how you and your right-wing partners on the national front have been continually making demonstrations, accusations and statements to force, to press the final ruling of the Supreme Court in the case of the trial. You here, in advance, well in advance, have wanted to condition, pressure and force that sentence. The game has obviously gone wrong for them. But it is that, in addition to wanting to depoliticize, when you are politicizing through coercion and pressure to these bodies, you are doing what you are doing is judicializing politics; you are judicializing politics when you and your partners derive, to the Constitutional Court or to other legal bodies, a lot of conflicts or disagreements that, rather than resolving them at the level of politics, dialogue, agreement, you are constantly transferring issues from politics to the judiciary, to different bodies. Therefore, there is no greater contradiction, no respect for the Constitution in its approach to the motion, no real depoliticizing action, but they are politicizing, and also wrongly, nor are they correct from the point of view of defending the democratic system. You, with this approach, are actually charging yourself with respect for something sacred like pluralism. So let us improve all and all practices, good practices, so that the election of the members, men and women, of these constitutional bodies is based, as the coalition government agrees, on the principles of merit, capacity, gender equality and prestige. And all of this, in addition, creates a consensus that will allow us to really face and advance in democratic regeneration and in the quality of democracy. Of course we've made mistakes. We cannot consider colonizing these organisms. Of course, we have to ensure from all points of view the separation of powers, of course, and ensure the independence of these bodies so that the executive power, the legislative power and the judiciary are a reality, acting independently of each other. But to improve those things - I conclude, Madam President - must not mean this depoliticisation that you are wrongly claiming and this anger and catastrophe that you permanently appeal to regarding the functioning of the democratic system in Spain, because what you are doing is a truly populist discourse and that does not exactly help the prestige of this institution or to achieve advanced democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u184	Mr. Elorza, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u185	I'm done. Let VOX come out here and talk about that they want to achieve advanced democracy on the basis of transparency, let VOX talk about advanced democracy and transparency when your speech is basically based on lies, is really laughing at this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u186	Thank you, Mr. Elorza. Mr Bal, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u187	Yes, I announced it in my speech. We accept the amendments by both the People's Group and the VOX Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u188	Thank you very much. Is that what you're talking about? OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ECONOMIC RELATIONS OF CATALUNA-SPAIN. [[File number 173/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u189	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group into Catalonia-Spain's economic relations. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of this motion, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u190	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tabling a motion of inquiry in order to be able to be adopted. In fact, after the interpellation I made to the minister we could have included in the motion a lot of just demands. We could have included the full payment of the third additional provision of 2008, on which there is a judgment, which is €753 million. I will not make you the list of what we could have included, we have strictly adhered to the elaboration and publication of the tax balances, but yes, we could also have added another element that I understand would now be relevant - I suppose that will interest many of you - as it is that the government paid the autonomous communities that VAT of 2017 that would have to be entered in 2019 and that has not been entered into the autonomous communities. However, I must inform you - in case you do not know this - that the Government will make this certain, because the Senate has just approved a motion by Junts per Catalunya calling on the Government to proceed with this return immediately. Therefore, I do not think that any of the groups that voted for this initiative in the Senate dare to approve budgets that do not cover this heading, so we are making progress. But I'm going to stick strictly to the motion of interpellation. We are asking for a very simple thing and we have done a wording that does not create problems, although I see that some amendment has been tabled which I will then comment on and which seems to be generating them. What do we ask? That tax balances be drawn up and published on an annual basis. As for the methodology, we didn't want any problems with the methodology. There is a methodology a few years ago - but the methodology has not changed in the preparation of fiscal balances -, approved and validated by the Senate and by the socialist Government of that time; a methodology that was presented in the Senate by the Institute of Fiscal Studies corresponding to the commission made to it by the Government. And what did we want? With this methodology, the results of the tax balances are published with the only two possible approaches: the burden/benefit and the monetary flow. As you know, the approach of burden/benefit is to assess the effect of the action of the central administration on the welfare of citizens living in a given territory and that of the monetary flow. It is simply the economic effect of the action of the central administration in a territory. It was that simple. I therefore ask you to do so in the interests of transparency. This is not to face territories, it would be a mistake. You will never find a statement from those who speak to you, who have made many around the fiscal balances, which can be interpreted as a confrontation between territories, because what is involved is to evaluate the action of the central administration in that territory and not seek comparative grievances. We therefore understood that there would be no amendments on the part of some parties that would obviously vote no, or on the part of others because we simply picked up the order that the minister made from this rostrum in the last of her interventions in the inquiry. We have received an amendment which we cannot accept in the current wording and, as the alteration of the agenda has facilitated us a few hours of extension, I will still try to ensure that, by tomorrow, when this motion is to be voted on as a result of an inquiry, we can submit a compromise. If we have to give up explaining the 2016 methodology, we have no problem. Now, we do not want information on tax balances to be published, we want tax balances to be published, and all we ask is that it be published using the two methods: the burden/benefit method and the method of monetary flow. It's that simple. If we agree on this, we will have a message that we will send to the rest of the Spanish state; if the problem is that neither the burden/benefit nor the monetary flow should appear, then they make us suspect, but I do not want to suspect, at least until tomorrow after the vote, because I understand that the agreement is possible if there is a clear and explicit will, as the minister said, to publish the fiscal balances and not to trap the lonely. The methodology can be adaptable, but the two methods of fiscal balances are what they are and we will not discover, after sixty years of public finance doctrine on fiscal balances, another new method. In any case, I place the amendments on a final reflection, on a final attempt to be able to reach an agreement, because, if not, it would be difficult to understand that there is talk of transparency, that there is talk of dialogue when it does not want to be explicit...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u191	Mr. Bel, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u192	I'm finishing up. Thank you very much, Madam President. ... that there is talk of dialogue when one does not want to explain the action of the central administration in a territory. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. To defend the amendment of their groups, intervenes, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u194	Thank you, President. We have reached the end of this plenary session to talk about fiscal balances, solidarity, but we do so after having attended a real spectacle of Tartufo, the impostor of Molière, and the role of the impostor has been deployed here today by a right that every time he goes up to this rostrum he is responsible for making accusations of insolidity to everyone, when he actually defends centralist economic projects, which are the quintessence of privilege and selfishness. Obviously, this centralism is not new and what we have heard in these days keeps a certain family air with the old monarchic absolutism, with the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, with Francoism itself, and above all with an economic project that has been unfolding since the time of José María Aznar. [[Protests]] That centralism is deeply hypocritical, in fact, because many of those who speak from here today of insolidity are the same ones who had no problems - for example, with Mr Montoro at the head - in drowning not only Catalonia, but also many territories and municipalism itself. Many of those who talk about insolidity here are the same ones who rescued the banks in exchange for nothing and ended up condemning the hardship of working people, small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, many of those who speak here of insolidarity, who boast of Spanishism and who reproduce the topics of anti-Catalanism defend a fiscal model that cares for the fate of the people of Teruel, La Rioja or Galicia. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is tiring and angering to hear you over and over again talking about the Constitution, when what the right-wings are defending here is a pre-constitutionalism, rather archaic, rather rancid, which has nothing to do with the best tradition of European social and democratic constitutionalism. Because when Mrs Ayuso speaks she does not make constitutionalism, what she does is offend the principle of fiscal progressiveity, which is set out in article 41 of the Constitution. What the right-wings do in Murcia, Andalusia or Madrid is not constitutionalism, is a flagrant violation of articles 40 and 131 of the Constitution, which place fiscal balance at the centre. Therefore, I have already come to the conclusion that you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, have as constitutionalists what I have as Scandinavian. That is precisely why we come here today to defend transparency, transparency of accounts, fiscal balances and greater financial self-government. We are not interested in that self-government to confront peoples or to generate mistrust among vulnerable people. From Catalonia we are interested that Spain that recognizes the plurinationality and Spain that some would like to empty can work together to create a financing regime that is more transparent, more equitable, that is solidarity and that is unequivocally republican. [[Applauds]] And for that we must defend interterritorial solidarity, but we must also dare to promote fiscal justice within each territory. Many of the skills we want for Catalonia - to regulate abusive rents, so that there are more investments - we also want them for the rest of the territory of the State; we want them for the people of Andalusia, we want them for the people of Galicia and we want them for the people of Asturias. Moreover, we want them because we think that this model of financing refers to an idea of the economy and of the infrastructures in net that has very little to do with the Spain disccola and radial that has been imposed since José María Aznar's time. I know that there is a part of the right, there are deputies from the PP of the Basque Country, Catalonia and other places that are also concerned about this re-centralisation. To those MPs of the PP to whom it bothers that since Genoa dances more and more to the rhythm of VOX music I recommend that they do what a right-wing man has just done to whom we admire, Clint Eastwood, a great director of cinema, who voted for Donald Trump and, when he sees the fangs to the wolf, has decided to move away from those positions. Get away from there. But we are not going to wait for you to do so, because, as long as you think about it, what we are going to defend is an alternative that is municipalist, plurinational, solidarity-based and clearly republican-inspired, because it is the only one that is able to give an innovative economic solution to the times and to be able to tackle the urban and rural emergency so tremendous that we have on the table and that it cannot wait another minute. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u195	Thank you, Mr. Pisarello. Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u196	Thank you, President. Today, the Plural Parliamentary Group is presenting a motion on the elaboration and publication of fiscal balances. Following the Minister's words, the Government - and it has said so on different occasions - and our parliamentary group has no problem with the presentation, publication and elaboration of tax balances. Not at all. And I'm telling you - and you were saying it, Mr. Bel - for the sake of transparency. Let me tell you something, because your motion, in its original text, refers - you go back to 2006 - that if any political party has been transparent this has been the Socialist Party. In 2006 fiscal balances were published because Zapatero ruled and because Solbes ruled, and also in Catalonia we had a president named Pepe Montilla. We can talk about transparency in our parliamentary group, but we will always meet. [[Applauds]] That is why we are presenting the amendment, because that is the Government's commitment to publishing these tax balances. Mr. Bel, it's time for the reunion, don't look here, don't look right, don't look at the People's Party or Citizens or VOX. Here we will only find blockage, we will find a single article and a single solution for Catalonia, which is article 155. And in days like today we have to hear the spokesman of the People's Party speaking on behalf of the Catalans, she, speaking on behalf of the Catalans, when neither the Catalans trust the People's Party. I'll give you some figures. Ten years ago specifically - and we were all in the crisis in Catalonia - in the Congress of Deputies there were 11 members of the Catalan People's Parliamentary Group, now they have two; in the Catalan Parliament they have had 19 members representing the People's Group, now they have four, and in the municipalities, gentlemen of the PP, you have 473 councillors, you have fallen on four, you have left 67. These are their recipes, their own recipes are not bought by the citizens of Catalonia or the voters of Catalonia. Do not teach us what to do with Catalonia, because the socialist government, the government of progress has developed an agenda for the reunion, an agenda that incorporates each and every one of the demands that have been made from the various executives of the Generalitat of Catalonia to the central government. [[applause]] Mr. Bel, you can talk about meeting again, let's leave behind the suspicions, let's leave behind even the suspicions that you have. You have on the table an amendment tabled jointly by the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Party. That amendment wants to talk about fiscal balances. If you want to talk about tax balances, if the ultimate objective of the motion is to publish tax balances, I will take it that you accept the joint amendment. If there are any other reasons: a newspaper cover, a saying that the government doesn't want to talk, a saying that the government doesn't have solutions..., here you won't find us. You said you don't recognize the state because we're all the same, and that's not the case. This morning the minister was reminding him: in two years of government of progress the funding towards the autonomous communities has increased the same as in seven years of Rajoy's government. The Joint Committee on Economic and Fiscal Affairs, which had not met for ten years, has been established, and the budget deficits you were talking about at the beginning of your intervention were resolved in the budget that was presented in 2009. With this we will have more opportunities and I hope that we will continue to talk, that we will continue to dialogue, that we will continue to be pragmatic and that we will always think about the general interest of all, that we will open up minds and above all that we will start to recognize the parties because there is another Catalonia different from yours. You have the amendment, we have time, you have said it, here you will find us. Let us do this, let us work on the fiscal balances, let us work on a new autonomous and local funding, but above all, Mr Bel, let us move forward and work on that dialogue which is also required of us today from Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mínguez. Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor for the Citizens Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Economic relations of Catalonia and Spain. That is how you propose your motion, and it is logical because you consider Catalonia and Spain to be two different countries. They would never make a motion here or in the Parliament of Catalonia - where they have never done so - on the economic relations between Tarragona and Catalonia or between Lleida and Catalonia. The worrying thing is that the government of Spain, the government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, buys them that framework, assuming the same, that Catalonia and Spain are two different countries. This afternoon we have a clear demonstration of that at that so-called dialogue table between the Government of the Generalitat, which does not represent more than half of the Catalans, and the Socialist Party and Podemos. But behind this title, which is already very enlightening, hides what they really think and expresses this image very well. [[Shows a photograph of Mr Aragonès García with a poster reading: Every second Spanish steals 450 euros]] You know who this gentleman is, don't you? Do the Socialist Party gentlemen know who this gentleman is? Because this afternoon you meet with him, with the lord who says: Every second Spain steals 450 euros. The friend of Mr Pisarello, who speaks here of solidarity. For this gentleman is going to sit with the President of the Government of Spain today to say: Spain steals us every second 450 euros. Now it has another aesthetic - this happens on the left very often - but it is the same. Well, with this gentleman they will sit down so that he can say the same thing as with this motion: Spain steals from us. The title of the motion could have been saved and said directly that, title it thus, Spain steals us, because it is the true intention that underlies this motion. It is normal because it is proposed by a political group that, in my opinion, defends supremacist theses - its president, in fact, has done so - with fugitive leaders and convicted criminals; and I am convinced that the gentlemen of Esquerra will support this motion, with fugitive leaders and convicted criminals running these parties. But the wild beasts we are very used to all this and we endure. It's okay, but we're not going to be silenced either with Pedro Sánchez's help or with Podemos' help. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you are preferring the criminals who call the rest of the Spanish mad beasts to 1 600 000 citizens' voters. They sit at the same table with the people who defend that, instead of being able to talk to those who believe - those who, in fact, despise - in a Spain of free and equal citizens, in solidarity and in economic social progress. Besides, that after defending without blushing the contrary very recently. With regard to the publication of tax balances, whatever methodology is being applied will yield a result that reflects a very clear conclusion: the territories with the highest per capita income are those with the greatest fiscal deficit, and those with the lowest per capita income contribute less and receive more. Then, that deficit will be increased or not depending on the method by which the fiscal balance is calculated, and obviously you, the supremacist separatists, will always choose the one that favors your thesis most. What is the logical consequence of a progressive tax system and a correct redistribution of income through public spending - what happens basically in any developed country and at all territorial levels that are subject to study - you make it an aggravation that justifies this statement, Spain steals us, which is what you want to say, even if you do not dare to say it already publicly. They dared here, now they dare no more. What they come to say applied to Catalonia would be exactly the same as if it were affirmed by the Barcelonans Lleida robs us, or even taken to the neighborhoods of Barcelona, that the inhabitants of the Sarria Sant Gervasi neighborhood, with a higher per capita income, said Poblenou robs us. Finally, the summary of supremacist nationalism, I am superior, richer, more educated, more educated, and I do not tolerate that part of my income be taken away by those who need it most. We're used to Catalonia. Your intention is not to make a system of financing fairer, something with which we and anyone will be in favour, your intention is to make a further argument in favour of trying to separate the citizens of Catalonia and confront them with the rest of the citizens of Spain, whom you do not consider your compatriots. That's the real reason. It is quite obvious that Barcelona suffers from a fiscal deficit in the province of Lleida, but that is normal for Citizens and for any party, you do not worry, because it is normal. But when it comes to communities that don't have the per capita income our community has, Catalonia, you say Spain steals them.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u199	Mr. Mirror-Saavedra, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u200	I'm done right now, President. We are not going to contribute to giving one more argument to that fiscal supremacy that you have. I am Catalan and I want my compatriots from anywhere in Spain to have no right less than mine, and I want my community, because of its socio-economic situation, which produces more, to help those who have less. You want the Catalans to think that the rest of the Spaniards steal them and that's indecent, proper to criminals like their leaders. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u201	Thank you, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u202	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, Mr Espejo-Saavedra, continue with this speech that turns their backs on the vast majority of Catalan society and in the next elections they will be left without any MPs in Congress, and we will see how many MPs remain in the next elections and in the Parliament of Catalonia. Keep it up. [[Applauds]] In the first legislature of the government of Zapatero, Esquerra Republicana managed to have the Spanish government publish the fiscal balances. This publication blacked out the fiscal deficit suffered by some territories. This exercise of transparency brought the definitive evidence to the Catalan population and to the Spanish population itself of the unsustainable fiscal deficit that suffered and continues to suffer Catalonia. In view of the publication of this evidence, the Spanish Government's response was not to reflect on and review the great anti-territorial fiscal imbalance, but to hide the fiscal balances and not re-publish them, thus perpetuating the imbalance and injustice. The argument of the then Minister Solbes in 2006 to oppose the publication of the fiscal balances was: 'it is a topic that can become a cause of controversy, a bold instrument between the central government and the autonomous communities', as if hiding the problem, is solved. These words of fourteen years ago remind much of those spoken by Minister Montero last week, and show that there is little will to bring forth the problems in order to be able to solve them. And it is more curious that a government of PSOE and United We can refuse to publish fiscal balances that even Minister Montoro himself published in 2017 with data from 2014. We were very critical at that time because these scales used only the method of calculating the burden-benefit and not the monetary flow. In doing so, it is understood that they were prepared to achieve a concrete result. In fact, what could we expect from the PP government, what could we expect from the accounting trap champions? Nothing at all. But the question now, gentlemen of the PSOE and of the United We can, is what we can expect from you. And the truth is, we expect very little. Do you realize the underlying problem? The fear of quantifying the fiscal deficit shows them the failure of their model of autonomous financing; a model that has demonstrated over the years that in territories like Catalonia it has not managed to reduce inequalities, but has aggravated them, because let us not forget that autonomous financing has a direct impact on social policies and on the most vulnerable population. I mean, we're not talking about a territorial problem, we're talking about a social problem. And when the Spanish Government systematically re-centralizes resources, governs those who rule, and asphyxiates the autonomous communities financially, it is asphyxiating and hypothesizing the very welfare state. I insist, gentlemen of the PSOE and of the United We can, what can we expect from you? Be brave to put figures to the aggravation, try to solve it if they are capable, but do not try to keep injustice by hiding reality, avoiding its transparency and honesty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u203	Thank you, Mr. Margall. Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u204	Thank you, Madam President. The resulting motion of interpellation presented by Junts per Catalunya corresponds once again to that old and well-known strategy of separatism: victimism. That victimism which only seeks to distort the reality in order to excite those negative feelings of hatred and confrontation against Spain, that political strategy which only seeks to cover up the disastrous management in the Generalitat of Catalonia in order to conceal the endemic corruption which they have perpetrated in Catalonia and to revive once again the separatist feeling, because you know very well that without that victimism separatism drowns and dies gradually. [[Applauds]] An appreciation is important, Mr Bel: it is not the territories that pay taxes, it is the people and the companies that sweat and sacrifice their families. [[Applauds]] You may have forgotten, but do you know who approved the current funding system? Convergence and Unity and Republican Left. I understand that Convergence and Union supposes to you some tension for the three percent, for the corruption of Pujol and for a long et cetera that I could go on saying, but look, no matter how much you change acronyms or colors, corruption has it intrinsically, because you only pretend to be the oligarchs of Catalonia. And by changing the acronyms, it turns out that your fellow bankers are charged with corruption crimes. [[Applauds]] You systematically reject the presence in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and you come here and tell us about a deficit of more than EUR 16 billion. It is true, you have not had the courage to say it here, but you have been sent to the media and Mr Torra has been actively repeating it these days. But we appreciate that you have tabled this motion, indeed, because it helps us to show how the autonomous system is an outdated system, unable to manage solidarity between territories, and how it is the only generator of confrontation between territories, to break the principle of equality and solidarity among all Spaniards, and to promote denationalisation in each and every region of Spain. [[Applauds]] If you want us to talk about deficit, we are talking about deficit, Mr Bel, of course, but the deficit that you have generated with the economic model implemented in Catalonia. A deficit that has meant a real fiscal hell for workers and businesses in Catalonia. They triple the taxes compared to the rest of the autonomous communities, and not content with it, they are now going to approve budgets where they also create four more own taxes. If you want us to talk about deficit, we're still talking about deficit. What do you say to those multiple little chiringuitos that you believe? There are 392, Mr Bel; 392 entities, public bodies, private companies serving the separatist machinery to plug their palm trees and continue with that indoctrination and that hatred and confrontation towards Spain. Deficit? Mr Bel, the deficit is, for example, what generates the policy of irrigating subsidies to media such as TV3, Catalunya Ràdio and a long and so on. [[Applauds]] ; 307 million grants, Mr Bel. And deficit also, of course, is what generates this institutionalized corruption of separatism; that corruption which, while you generated this account of hatred and confrontation with Spain, you filled your pockets at the expense of the workers and entrepreneurs of Catalonia. You frustrated the opportunities of so many young entrepreneurs. You, as you stole and embezzled funds, increased street insecurity, immigration conditioned and threatened coexistence in our neighbourhoods, and the dependency list continued to grow and there was no official shelter. [[Applauds]] That's deficit, Mr. Bel. And deficit is what you have generated in Catalonia; deficit is the absolute social emergency that many Catalans suffer while you were dedicated to maintaining your privileges and fighting to remain the oligarchs of Catalonia. But, in the face of your sectarianism, Mr. Bel, our determination to unravel your trophies and to work to ensure that money really goes to social policies. Reversing the only deficit, Mr. Bel, is reversing that social emergency. I ended up sending a message to the lounge Okupas, the CUP, Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana. Yesterday from here someone said they won't happen. I tell you, and listen carefully, we will pass, we will enter the Parliament of Catalonia, and sooner or later we will evict you from all Catalan institutions, because freedom, truth, goodness and beauty will succeed. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u205	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u206	Thank you very much, President. We are debating this motion today, nominated by its promoters of economic relations between Catalonia and Spain. I am going to defend the position of the People's Group in which we are going to talk about relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Today we are dealing with this motion, precisely on the day when the President of the Government of all Spaniards comes to the table of the purpose to serve as a tray the dignity of an entire country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this asymmetrical relationship in which Mr Sánchez is pivoting the governance of this country, his independent partners are willing to draw all possible revenue, even in a mild tone, as they have done today. But what's worse, the president of the government is willing to squeeze all the Spaniards' pockets to pay off the debts of his investiture. Lords of the PSOE, the independenceists come today to demand that they publish the fiscal balances in that road map that goes by breaking solidarity and equality between the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not the mere publication of the fiscal balances - it has already been done -; the problem is that some gentlemen here today are questioning a tax system based on mutual solidarity between citizens, between autonomous communities, between peoples or between neighbourhoods of the same city. And the big problem is that you, gentlemen of the PSOE, are the accomplices of it. But of course, you have abandoned the rigour, the moderation and the slightest sense of state, willing even to throw the solidarity model of the pension fund over the edge in order only to pay the toll of your investiture. This week we have seen, even, how the government has mercilessly attacked the fiscal autonomy of the autonomous communities and is that, socialists, as federalists, as decentralists as you are for some things and as centralists and interventionists to put your hand in the pocket of the Spanish. Gentlemen of the PSOE, if you wanted to harmonize well you could have dedicated yourself to closing ruinous embassies abroad, or to watching what you spend the budget you get by charging twice as much taxes to Catalans as to the rest of Spain. That way they could have harmonized. Ladies and gentlemen, contradictions, lack of coordination, weakness, irresponsibility and giving in to blackmail, these are the qualifications of Mr Sánchez's economic policy, of the fiscal policy of this country that is already generating uncertainty and that we will see what consequences it brings us. But this is only the result of the will of the President of the Government, who has put economic policy in the hands of this new troika, the troika formed by the Vice-President Iglesias, the harmonising Montero or Mr Rufián, who comes to pass the plate of his comrades the prisoners of the Republican Left. With this panorama, ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs future policies that bring stability to our economy and not failed recipes from the past. And it also needs a responsible opposition for this serious moment that we are experiencing, that it does not seek easy applause and that, through a rigorous political alternative, it proposes solutions to complex problems that are not solved by tweeting. Ladies and gentlemen, our President Pablo Casado offered a week ago his hand extended to Mr Sánchez, and this morning he recalled it again, in order to give stability to our country and our economy. It is designed to meet our commitments to Europe as a guarantee of stability and confidence that attracts foreign investment. A policy aimed at strengthening the one-size-fits-all pension system that guarantees solidarity and equality for all citizens where they reside. It is aimed at engaging in a genuine fiscal revolution that serves to ensure the provision of public services, but also that underpins a dynamic economy as the only recipe to generate employment. It is aimed at ensuring market unity, removing administrative obstacles and promoting a stable legal and fiscal framework for investment in the new economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to improve the competitiveness of our companies with stable and clear labour legislation, where training is an absolute priority on the government's agenda; therefore, we also need to make job creation the main State policy. And hand stretched out to defend our farmers, who are out there helpless, and assure them that we are going to defend them with nails and teeth, that we are going to defend their interests. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, a hand taken to ensure equality between Spaniards and to make our economy generate jobs. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, this is the offer of my group, although it seems that you are following your plans to negotiate the stability of the country at that bilateral, insolidary and excluding table to which these gentlemen who are co-governing with you are dragging.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u207	Mr. Castellón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u208	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are forced to publish the tax balances with the sole interest of breaking the system, in the meantime we ask you only two things: that Mrs Montero convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and that she remove her hands from our pockets, because every time she asks for the word in the Council of Ministers, the Spanish people have to shake hands with the wallet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u209	Thank you, Mr. Castellón. Mr Bel, does your group accept the amendment that has been tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u210	Thank you, President. We do not accept it in its literality, but for the sake of pragmatism to which it has been appealed, we reserve until tomorrow before the vote the possibility of accepting a transactional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-26-CD200226.u211	Very well; thank you very much, Mr. Bel. The meeting was suspended. It was one and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
