ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Sections 12, Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, and 34, Financial Relations with the European Union We continue the debate on the opinion of the draft Law on General State Budgets for 2021. Firstly, it corresponds to the debate in sections 12, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, and 34, Financial Relations with the European Union. For the presentation of the sections, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear to outline the budget lines of my department for 2021, a budget that is commensurate with our ambitions and in line with the current needs of our external action. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation aspires to a consolidated budget in 2021 of 1852 million euros. This budget includes the resources allocated to the ministry as such, also those allocated to the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation for Development, Aecid, as well as those of the Cervantes Institute. This represents an increase of 17% compared to the base budget 2020. These are new budgets with which this Government proposes two objectives: to directly and effectively meet Spain's interests on the international scene and also to meet the interests and needs of our citizens and companies abroad. To this end, we articulate these budgets around three axes which constitute in this legislature the backbone of our external action and which I am going to describe. First, a commitment determined by multilateralism and regional alliances. The current moment requires strengthening Spain's international position as a driving force in the European Union, as a nodal multilateral actor and also as a builder of alliances with regions such as Latin America, the Mediterranean and Africa. These budgets aim to contribute on this basis to a global response to challenges such as the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change and major global inequalities; multilateralism to manage our interdependence and thus protect our citizens. Multilateral diplomatic action will therefore have a special focus on these budgets. We want to strengthen our position at the United Nations by deepening areas in which Spain has demonstrated international leadership and which I would like to remind you of: Agenda 2030; Women, Peace and Security; combating climate change; feminism; combating hunger; protecting and promoting human rights; combating terrorism; and protecting the victims. We also want to support the global health system and the implementation of the global pacts on refugees and migration, as well as the launch of a national humanitarian diplomacy strategy. Our voluntary contributions to United Nations agencies will be allocated ten times as much as in the previous financial period. Also within this framework we will support the strengthening of the United Nations base in Spain, in Quart de Poblet, Valencia, as a provider of value-added services, technology and communications for all United Nations agencies from Valencia. Secondly, the modernisation and improvement of our services. The budgets represent for my department the opportunity - by incorporating the funds of the European Recovery and Resilience Mechanism - to accelerate the reforms that are already under way. This is particularly the case with digital transformation, especially focused on consular care for the citizen and the digital teaching of Spanish abroad. It is also the way to improve the energy efficiency and sustainability of our buildings. These European funds represent an increase of at least EUR 128 million. The Digitalisation Plan aims to open more efficient management formulas by improving the quality of our consular care and enabling an electronic headquarters to facilitate consular procedures. Our main objective is to give priority and more effective care to the almost 3 million Spaniards living abroad, as well as to the almost 19 million Spaniards who travel abroad each year, and also to the foreign nationals we hope will be able to return soon to Spain. In the area of consular action, EUR 1.9 million will also be allocated for aid under the regular protection of Spanish nationals abroad. Let me recall here the current health emergency, which resulted from March in a real consular crisis in which our Foreign Service assisted thousands of Spanish citizens abroad and contributed to the return of more than 40,000 citizens to our country. The other major project for 2021, together with the above-mentioned digital transformation, is the transfer of all the members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to a single headquarters in the square of the Marquis de Salamanca, a building adapted to current needs and better prepared for public attention. They will also invest in the common services of the ministry 21 million euros to improve its functioning and increase its resilience and responsiveness. Thirdly, commitment to development cooperation. International cooperation, in its dual aspect of development cooperation and of cultural promotion and dissemination abroad, will count in the year 2021 with 656 million euros: 293 of them will be managed by the Secretariat of State for International Cooperation for Development, 245 million euros will be managed by the Aecid and 118 million euros, the Cervantes Institute. These budgets are a clear commitment to the 2030 Agenda and official development assistance. This aid from all Spanish public administrations for the next year grows to EUR 3115 million, 20% more than in the 2018 budgets, an increase that puts the official development aid effort at 0.25 per cent of gross national income. We take a step forward in our goal of 0.5% of gross national income at the end of the parliamentary term, which is our commitment. We know that we have to take firm steps in that direction, we know that this year our possibilities are limited, given the crisis caused by COVID, but we send a very clear message of our commitment to move forward in this direction. The contribution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 788 million euros, will represent 28% of the official development aid of the General State Administration, an increase of 23% compared to the 2020 budgets. The Secretariat of State for International Cooperation will have a budget of 293 million, with an increase of 62 million euros destined mainly to make contributions to multilateral development organizations in the area of health and food security, the ones most affected by COVID-19. In the area of financial cooperation, the Fund for the Promotion of Development, Fonprode, will have an amount of €200 million and an approved operating limit of €375 million for reimbursable operations. As for the Water and Sanitation Cooperation Fund, by 2021 it will have 15 million euros, with an approval limit of 65 million euros. Aecid will have €384 million in transfers and other revenue, 15% more than in the 2020 budget. And I also highlight cooperation operations delegated by the European Commission in the amount of EUR 32 million. Aecid will channel one more year of calls for civil society to join development cooperation: at least EUR 31.5 million guaranteed, plus the proportional share of the 0.7 % effective collection for other social purposes. The ministry will also continue to support foundations that work closely with Spanish cooperation, such as the Carolina Foundation and the International and Ibero-American Foundation for Public Administration and Policy. With regard to humanitarian aid, the increase in the national budget will make it possible to fulfil the commitment to increase humanitarian aid up to 10% of official development aid in Aecide. As far as the Cervantes Institute is concerned, this is, as you all know, a strategic institution for cultural promotion and dissemination abroad, and for that reason it will have a budget of 174 million euros. It represents an increase of 50 million euros, mainly due to the planned contribution of the Recovery Mechanism, which will allow the technological transformation of the Cervantes Institute to boost the digital teaching of Spanish. Transfers from the State to the Cervantes Institute also grow by 4.2 million euros - the largest experienced in recent years - and with this the institute will be able to open its first headquarters in Africa - in Dakar, Senegal - and in Los Angeles, as is its intention. These budgets will satisfy, of course, the payroll of the 1,172 employees assigned to the central services that this ministry plans to have in 2021 and those of the 4683 employees abroad. Also, logically, the maintenance of our external network, consisting of one hundred and eighteen embassies, ninety consular offices and ten permanent representations, which will absorb 369 million euros. In this regard, I note that, although no significant increases in the current expenditure on goods and services of our external representations have been foreseen, in 2021 we will expand the external network with the opening of a new Consulate General in the Chinese city of Chengdu. I ended my speech by stating that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation also aims to have a greater strategic approach, which will lead us to strengthen the Secretariat of State for Global Spain. We want to improve the positioning of Spain in the world. We want to boost economic diplomacy to support the internationalization of our businesses - in particular small and medium-sized ones - and to attract investment, as well as to make a better contribution to the major debates of the future. We will devote EUR 13 million to this. In short, today I bring before your ladies and gentlemen the financial expression of an ambitious and modern external action and of a diplomatic and consular deployment that wants to rise to the level of the moment we are here. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is the draft budget with which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation hopes to be able to respond to the challenges of our country on the international scene in 2021 and for which I would like to ask for all my support from here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Sayas López has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. These budgets are inconsistent. But not only are they inconsistent because they start from a completely unrealistic macroeconomic scenario, but they are also inconsistent because they have the allocation of European funds that we will see when they arrive and in what amount. But, come when those funds come in, what's clear is what they are for. These funds are to make reforms that transform our economy, to improve Spain's competitiveness, to alleviate the effects of the ruin to which a closed economy is leading us and to create jobs. But it is also clear why these funds are not. These funds are not to distribute them in a client-friendly way with political criteria, they are not to distribute a cake between Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, which seems to be the way to which the Government of Spain leads us. Because instead of having chosen an independent and prestigious authority, as Italy has done, to distribute those funds, here first they decided that all the cake was in the hands of Mr. Sánchez alone, but when Mr. Iglesias mounted in anger they had to change that decree to give him also part of the cake. And those funds are not subsidies to give a finger, and above all by eliminating the control mechanisms as they seem to do in view of the decree, those funds are to transform Spain economically, because if we are not playing not only the effort of the whole European Union, but the future of our country. But, of course, who cares about Spain's future? Does Spain's future matter to its budgetary partners? Does Spain's future matter to a partner like Esquerra Republicana, who has been attacking democracy, freedom, the rule of law and the Constitution in Catalonia for years?Do you have any concerns about Spain's future? Or is there any concern for the future of Spain a budgetary partner like EH Bildu?, is there any concern for the future of Spain? Yesterday we saw how Mrs Aizpurua came out euphoric to this rostrum to say that these budgets are going to have important conditions for Spain from now on. And he did it at the same time that a Bildu leader, Mr. Pernando Barrena, tweeted welcoming home a 251-year-old terrorist, of whom he has spent 23 years in prison. Those are your partners. [[Applauds]] That's Bildu. How can you tell us that these budgets are going to improve Spain's future with these partners? It's absolutely impossible to believe. It is clear that its partners have nothing to worry about the future of Spain, but we Spaniards have a lot to worry about their partners, and the whole of the European Union has a lot to worry about. Because the European Union project is a project of democratic values, however much this government has lost not only values but even scruples. And I wonder, when you go Europe - when you go particularly, Minister - how do you explain to leaders like Macron, like Mrs Merkel, like Mr Conte, that the partners in Spain are Republican Left or EH Bildu? How can you explain to them a project of freedoms, a project of democratic consolidation or progress for our country at the hands of those partners? What face do you look at her with? With what face do you look at in Europe when you say that Otegi is coming to democratize the Spaniards? I imagine that the face will be of terror, because in Europe they know perfectly well the concept of democracy that Mr Otegui has and that which has been practicing his party for decades in this country. That is why they are terrified that Mr Otegi and his concept of democracy will settle in the direction of the state, as the Vice-President of the Churches has announced, and I am not surprised, because the European Union does have democratic values. On the other hand, these funds, which are fundamental to the economic transformation of our country, are also very important for a community like Navarra, a community to which the Spanish Government has so far turned its back in an insulting way for the shipwrecks. We saw it in the previous distribution when Navarra was given only 1% of those funds, when we are 1.4% of the population and we contribute 1.6% to the state's coffers, depending on our GDP. We have very important challenges, some of which we have brought in amendments to this House, which, of course, have been rejected. We need European money for our industrial transformation, for our transformation of the whole agri-food issue, for infrastructures such as the Navarra Canal or the high-speed train, which is key to the competitiveness of our community; however, those amendments that this party has brought to this House are not being supported by the Socialist Party. The shipwrecks will not understand it; neither will we, of course,. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u6	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me begin my speech with a quote from Italo Calvino from his book The Castle of Crossing Destinations. This author said that each choice has its opposite, a waiver, so there is no difference between the act of choosing and the act of resigning. And I was right, because choosing is to give up, always, my mother used to say, and we all know it. And freedom is the ability to act according to the will between various options, when there are them, and with consequences. But freedom has as conditions sine qua non, on the one hand, that there are options and, on the other hand, the exercise of the will. True freedom always carries a responsibility, and when one decides is responsible for its consequences, for its decision, but especially when these consequences are for others, not for himself. The processing of these budgets is coming to an end and its president, Pedro Sánchez, has chosen and decided to rely on the radicals of Esquerra Republicana and Bildu and move away from the moderation that we had offered. We had offered a way of service to the Spaniards who were betting on measures that could protect the citizens in a situation that is going to be - and you know it - very serious, terrible from the health point of view, from the social point of view and from the economic point of view. And you have chosen to ensure their survival - theirs - in the Moncloa by auctioning this country between nationalism and populism, and you have done so because you have given them the real will, because you have willingly wanted, with premeditation and awe, lacking your word and at the expense of all the Spaniards. And what is serious is not the moral dimension of this determination, which has it and much. Be very careful when you look in the mirror after you have said again and again that you would not agree with those who want to break Spain. But it doesn't matter to me, there you are with your conscience, if you have it; the serious thing is that the Spaniards have had to stop doing things for this decision. With regard to section 12 of the budget, which is my responsibility, you have refused to support things that were important for external action and were particularly important for young people. You, for example, have rejected the creation of a new system of paid scholarships so that young graduates and professionals can have international experience at both the Ministry's headquarters and embassies as well as at Aecid. We did not ask for much, we asked for EUR 700 000 to invest in the entry of talent into external action - an entry that is going to be very important in the context in which we are, because they also need training - so that young people of all social classes, especially those without resources, could go to unremunerated practices. We know that in this government you prefer to be friends and family in these posts; Mr Ábalos is not here but he has placed some of them. For we wanted everyone, everyone, even if we didn't have friends in the government, even if we didn't have family in the PSOE, we could choose to go abroad and you said no. Secondly, you have rejected - and this is very painful to me - amendments which have to do with defending our language and culture. Because the whole of Spain has to be told: the socialists not only mark Spanish in education, they have also turned their backs on defending the common heritage that we have, which unites us with 600 million citizens all over the world: our language, Spanish, Spanish. Why? Because they have already taken the approaches of nationalism and independence, which suggest that their own language is the co-official language and, therefore, that Spanish is the inappropriate language. Look, we defend Spanish within and outside our borders, and we do so not only with grandiose speeches, but with actions, asking for this money. It was embarrassing to have to hear last week in the Foreign Committee that the Socialist Group made a proposal to defend Spanish throughout the world while negotiating in the Education Act to cut it within our borders. But we wanted to see if that grandiose expression in the Commission was true and we proposed an amendment to give more resources to the Cervantes Institute, so that it could defend the Castilian, for example, in the United States to break with the stigmatization that Trump has subjected to this language for a long time. You know what they said? No, no, They said no to this amendment. But how are they going to destigmatize Spanish outside our borders if they are stigmatizing it within our borders? How are we going to expect you to protect and foster a language if you don't protect it and you don't want it inside? Also, in order to enhance the presence of the Spanish force in the rest of the world, we were proposing an amendment to economically strengthen the Fulbright Commission in its scholarship programme with the United States, where huge opportunities are now opening up, and you have again said no; no. They have once again struck our youth, our professionals, the people who can be trained and also establish close ties with a country with which we have to strengthen them, and you have not wanted them. On the contrary, if we misunderstand - and I hope I am wrong - that you will end up voting for games of prebendas that the nationalists have put in the budgets; for example, to remove between 5 and 9 million from the Cervantes Institute to allocate them to chiringuitos, to paragliders of the independenceists. Yes, yes, Minister, there is a double amendment by the Republican Left and the PDECAT, which we will see whether it is finally approved or not. Or, for example, to provide extra euros to those who already have at the Institute of Human Rights in Catalonia, we do not know exactly why. In short, we deeply regret that this Government has wanted to turn its back on the Citizens' proposal that was coming to improve the General Budgets of the State. And instead of offering the Spaniards a project of union, you offer a project of rupture, division and exclusionary nationalism. As far as foreign policy is concerned, this seems particularly serious to us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Plural Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u8	Thank you, President. Thank you, minister. I suppose we will all agree that there are several crises facing Europe in the current context; structural crisis of global governance, economic management, control of public authorities, crisis of values and, of course, health crisis. And let me make a point before I begin, Minister, because I see that everyone is very concerned about the image of Spain and they have invested many millions of euros to improve - you say - the image of Spain. They can start by doing something that won't cost them a single euro, and it's stopping repression in Catalonia; they release political prisoners and Catalan exiles, who are basically the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia that we vote for. And one day Mrs. Martín will tell us the problem she has with Catalan. In order to obtain resources, the European Union, under the German Presidency, has three formulas: to increase the ceiling on own resources, a multiannual financial framework and the conditionality mechanism, and to see if new taxes are created in Europe. But, in any case, what is clear is that the German Presidency is negotiating, for the time being Hungary and Poland are blocking, and Spain is not going to decide when the European funds will arrive. And even knowing this reality, you have been saying or threatening that European funds are linked to the approval or not to the approval of these budgets when you know perfectly well that one thing is not linked to the other. Perhaps you don't mind not speaking plainly to the citizens or even lying to them and treating them as undocumented, but we do mind very much. With a fall of 15% of GDP under normal circumstances we would be facing a catastrophic scenario, but it turns out that the European Central Bank is buying them debt almost free of charge. If Spain can pay payroll today is because Frankfurt is buying debt. In 2015 the public debt purchased by the European Central Bank was zero euros, today, by the end of 2020, the public debt purchased by the European Central Bank amounts to 450 billion euros, that is, in just five years they have been buying 100 billion euros annually. I suppose you already know that, although you are not going to say it, but the European Central Bank's colloquium will not last forever. Mr Sánchez is not here, but in June of this year the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, President Torra, disqualified thanks to a state of law to the Spanish, sent him a letter that never had an answer, but it is you who have dialogue, those who have dialogue! In this letter President Torra asked them to apply for the MEDE credit line - the Spanish Government asked for the SURE credit line, thanks to which some ERTO can be paid, and I say some because some have not been paid, not because of lack of liquidity but because of the inefficiency of the administrative system - a credit line of 0.1% interest at thirty years. Today, no one remembers this request from President Torra, who never received a reply. This request would have taken place only for Catalonia - and I say only for Catalonia because the honourable Member of Navarre could also have had millions for his territory - not only the two billion euros of which the PSOE, the PSC, Podemos and Els Comuns presume so much or the 89 million euros that the Catalan negotiators have negotiated. This line of credit that Spain should have accepted would have meant only for Catalonia an injection of more than EUR 4 billion, but you are always late and your bad decisions affect us all. We warn in June, but, of course, we are the ones from Puigdemont, the one everyone wants to erase from the map. This stupidity of not talking and not listening to those who don't like it has made Catalonia today have 89 million euros in the bag and could have had four thousand. When Catalonia has presented itself in the last 20 years to competitive European funds, it has devastated it. When he distributes Europe, Catalonia wins. Nine thousand multinationals, six hundred thousand SMEs, research centres, etc.; we account for 1.5% of European GDP and in competitiveness funds we receive between 3% and 4%. When it distributes Spain, the answer is always the same: underfunding and discrimination. Therefore, thinking only of the benefit of the citizens of Catalonia, the independence of Catalonia, objectively speaking and with numbers in hand, is the best option for their progress. I insist that the colloquium of the European Central Bank will not last forever. They have the opportunity to finally make good use of the money. It's important to invest in a productive economy and from Catalonia we've been asking for it for a long time, but seeing these budgets, let me be quite pessimistic. If you do not make good use of the funds and the credits, Spain will be engaged in a second European rescue. I end with a sentence from Mrs Vergés, who I subscribe to: These budgets do not help the citizens of Catalonia. Free political prisoners and exiles and free Visca Catalunya! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u10	Thank you, Madam President. From the seat we are defending our amendments on this point and until the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, good morning. How hard it is to hear you say here that these budgets are up to our ambitions! These budgets are built on the basis of a macroeconomic picture that is unreal and therefore false. I do not say this, the economic and fiscal forecasts on which you have relied to make these budgets are completely out of date and out of date by reality, as the Governor of the Bank of Spain and the President of the AIReF have shown. That is why my group has tabled a refoulement amendment and a number of addition amendments in order to try to correct, as far as foreign policy is concerned, the misguidedness that you are presenting. We knew it wasn't going to be easy, it was going to be hard for them to rectify, but we didn't think they weren't going to read them, we didn't think they were going to veto their processing directly. You have not even had the decency to take them into consideration, which very well reflects the talent of this Government. I will tell you, Minister, that the problem here is not for the People's Party. You are trying to say that we have the problem and that these are good budgets because the People's Party does not like you. The problem here is for the Spanish, for the foreign policy of Spain, for the interests of Spain. With the arrival of you and Podemos in power, Spain's foreign policy has ceased to be a State policy. It is not a problem of the People's Party, minister, it is a problem of the Government of Spain. These budgets show the damage that you and the left-wing coalition are doing to Spain, in the image of Spain - yes, Your Honor - and to foreign policy. I'm going to put it straight with the area of your competence. Of the 1852 million euros budgeted, there are 134 million -128 you have said - associated to the Mechanism for Recovery and Resilience. Madam Minister, you know - they have already told you - that these 128 million are not yet approved by the European Union. The Spaniards also know; lucky we still have means and ways to be aware of the news that exists. They also know who is blocking these funds and they know that the reason is the rule of law clause; a clause, Minister, which is also in doubt in Spain, and I do not say this to you, has been told directly by Commissioner Reynders. But you have also allocated the EUR 128 million already to the digitisation of the Spanish consulates and to the integral transformation of the teaching and dissemination of Spanish culture and language which, as Mrs Martín has rightly said, they are concerned about this, although then in Spain they do quite the opposite. I am not going to ask you what Brussels will say about the money that you have given us to transform the Spanish economy, the government putting it directly into the budgets and also as expenditure. This has not been submitted to Brussels and has not yet been approved by Brussels. What I do ask you, Minister, if the European funds are finally delayed, what is the plan B that you have for the digitisation and modernization of our obsolete consular structure, which has been waiting for so many years to be modernised? And what will happen with the language and the diffusion of Spanish culture? Does it not seem to you, Minister, to be a somewhat misleading and, of course, very frivolous way of using European funds that are not yet approved to put them into the budget? I'll tell you more. Months ago you announced to us when a thorough review of Spain's foreign policy arrived with the referral to the Courts of a new foreign action law, a new legal framework for international cooperation and a master plan, you also told us here today. Political intentions are backed up by budget and, if there is no budget, there is no policy. None of this is reflected in these budgets, so we do not know whether this is pure propaganda or a trap, because there will be no change or transformation. This lack of rigour is also compounded - let me tell you - by a lack of sensitivity. It is something very disconnected from the real situation in which Spanish society lives that increases the staff costs and the current expenditure and reduces the amount of protection for social assistance, evacuations, hospitalizations and repatriations of Spaniards abroad. Good thing you guys weren't leaving anyone behind! You said today that part of this budget is to improve and meet the interests of Spaniards abroad. Tell me how you're going to do it when you reduce that budget line. In addition, I will tell you that another of the narrowings, when Spain is going to face the consequences of a lack of agreement with the United Kingdom, is that of diplomatic action before the European Union. It is the only programme affected by a budget decrease. The truth is, I don't know how he misses us when last week we knew we were going to run out of ambassadors in London because you hadn't looked for replacements. He must be so busy that he does not come to Parliament and does not have time to appoint a relay in London either. Total, we are simply thirty days away from a disconnect that has been frantic for years, with thousands of Spaniards residing in the UK, thousands of English residing in Spain and more tourists arriving every year, and Spain is running out of ambassador at this key moment. Honestly, minister, it reveals a great lack of rigour and very little professionalism. My group is very concerned about the deterioration of Spain's image in our foreign policy and the damage it causes in our internal policy. Your Government and its mistakes have touched our reputation in the health, tourism, economics and immigration areas, as we are seeing. Our rule of law is challenged by this attempt to bridge democratic guarantees with a proposal for a law to change the General Council of the Judiciary, with a real decree of disinformation, and with a broken institutional image when on official trips with the head of State instead of representing the Government of Spain, the vice president represents his ideological interests. Therefore, Minister, I will tell you that the presentation of these budgets is a irresponsibility and a terrible missed opportunity. What you do is whitewash the ideology of partners who don't belong to Spain and you. Let me tell you that this budget does not live up to our ambitions, perhaps those of the Government, but certainly not those of the Spanish because Spain deserves much more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets have several faces; they are the product of a foreign policy and, at the same time, they express a new will to be and to be in the world. These budgets would not have been possible without the political courage and diplomatic courage of this Government and of the countries of southern Europe, which struggled hard to get this crisis to be given a response other than that of the dogma of austerity and cuts in 2008. This battle has certainly not yet managed to change the nature of a Europe that is far from the solidarity Europe with which Altiero Spinelli and Ernesto Rossi dreamed from the fascist prisons in Ventotene, but it will allow us to breathe, it will allow us to modernise our foreign policy and it will allow us a social and economic reconstruction that is up to one of the most serious planetary emergencies we have experienced in recent times. And we are going to do so despite a right which, unfortunately, have tried to stifle this proposal on all tracks, aligning in a rather unfaithful and unpatriotic way with all the forces which in Europe would have wanted to impose in Spain, Italy and Portugal a solution similar to that which did so much damage to the Greek people a decade ago. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, the aggressiveness with the agreements that have been reached here by different republican, plurinational and progressive forces to achieve this solution. Surely these budgets should have given an even more social and redistributive response than we have given, because indeed the emergency we are in is enormously serious, but we clearly say that we are very proud of this response we have given. It is an exemplary response in southern Europe, which launches a message that will also be translated into foreign policy. A foreign policy that is going to be based on multilateralism, on the defence of peace, on the defense of feminism and on the defence of human rights; that is, quite contrary to what the Caligula governments have despised so much Trump or Bolsonaro during these years and which, unfortunately, has had enough embolism in this very House. And that's going to mean a lot because defending a peace policy means refusing to support any warlike adventure to which any foreign power wants to take us, thus honoring what was said in Article 6 of the 1931 Republican Constitution, which established that Spain renounced war as an instrument of public policy. And when we say that we are going to defend a policy of international solidarity we are talking about a policy of cooperation that defends that if we ask for vaccines and access to basic medicines for ourselves, we also have to ask for it for all the peoples of the world who need it; defending a policy of solidarity means defending a migration policy based on respect for human rights and international legality by refusing to secondary, as has just happened in France, the demagogic scoundrels defended by the extreme right who would only want to confront - yes, Mr Espinosa - the poor against the poor and the last against the penultimate in order to hide who are really responsible for this crisis. Defending this solidarity policy forces us not to abandon our sisters and brothers in the Sahara, in Palestine, the human rights defenders in Colombia and in Chile who are being threatened and killed by it. It obliges us to demand real respect from our companies and international trade that is not only about marketing for human rights and for labour and environmental standards when they act beyond our borders, and above all it forces us to carry on something that the right-wing usually overlooks; a foreign policy based on republican values of honesty in the exercise of public office. We told Congresswoman Uriarte a few days ago and we repeat it today: we are many and many Republican and non-Republican people who have witnessed constant investigations and allegations of corruption against the Emeritus King and members of the Royal House. For us - those of us who are also concerned about the rule of law - these revelations offend the working citizens and also cause indisputable damage to the external image of Spain, which here some do not care so much. And many of us are clear that we cannot shut up about that either, because neither Riego nor Mariana Pineda were silenced in front of Fernando VII, because Pi i Margall, who was also a deputy in front of Isabel II, did not shut up in front of Alfonso XIII, because in front of Unamuno and Pérez Galdós, who, in addition to being a great Republican, was the brightest Spanish-language writer of the 19th century, and that is why we will not shut up either. And if they put us in the position of having to choose, indeed, between a monarchy constantly questioned by corruption and respect for the principle of the rule of law, respect for the principle of equality before the law and respect for the principle of popular sovereignty, do not hesitate, ladies and gentlemen; between one thing and another we will be very clear, just as the great Benito Pérez Galdós and so many others were clear; let the monarchy perish but let the principles be saved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u15	Thank you, Mr. Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Asarta Cuevas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft State General Budgets for 2021 and for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs show an increase of EUR 369 million, 20% more than in the previous year, which, with the economic and social situation created by the crisis of COVID, is not only quite difficult to understand but impossible to justify for the Spaniards, who see how their real needs do not end up being met. Of this total increase, 128 million are part of the so-called Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, i.e. the famous European funds whose reception is not safe and on which, except for the Cervantes Institute, it would be advisable for the government to clarify their fate, as well as when they will be received and if they will occur in 2021. As you can see, they're two incognites. As for the ministry that occupies us, I will mention just a few examples of the hundreds that I could quote to show that, in general, they are a short and sticky of the former, without worrying too much about sharpening the pen and adjusting to the real economic possibilities of the nation after the COVID crisis. An example, for studies and technical work, the budgeted for 2021 is practically similar to 2020, an amount of around €43 million, which seems enormous given the high qualifications of the officials and employees of the ministry, who could perform these jobs in many cases. On the other hand, they are works that are mostly just excuses to pay favors to benefactors of the ideological agenda. On the subject of the above, we wonder what kind of studies and technical work that money is going to be used for and why they want to be needed. Another example, curiously, in many cases we see increases in transfers to subsidize, assist and contribute to agencies of all kinds. Specifically, for participation in international agencies and voluntary contributions, the Government has increased the allocation by €36 million, and we wonder what are the reasons for so significantly increasing voluntary contributions to international agencies and, most importantly, whether these new contributions represent any diplomatic or other advantage for the Kingdom of Spain, taking into account the recent failures of this Government to place three of its ministers in different international agencies. However, it strongly draws attention to the fact that, while voluntary contributions to international bodies have increased, the social and health care of Spaniards abroad has suffered a significant cut of €400,000. For the protection of Spaniards abroad, social assistance, evacuations, hospitalizations and repatriations the budget will allocate 1.9 million euros. This seems to us to be scarce and unreasonable given the experience experienced in recent months to assist the Spaniards who were outside Spain when the pandemic broke out and also during it, extreme situations that can be repeated at any time and for which more funds should be reserved. More examples, something that may seem smaller but which demonstrates the short and tightness and the lack of rigour in the preparation of the budgets of this ministry is the fact of devoting as a whole three million euros for office equipment, three million euros. Taking into account the 6250 employees of the ministry of any category or function, they earn 483 euros per worker per year, which is foolish and shows that they have not sharpened the pen sufficiently and pull with the king's powder. [[Applauds]] How is this huge expenditure on office equipment justified? Remember, whoever mismanages the small will manage the great much worse. As for the new Secretariat of State of Global Spain, the allocations to the different houses in Spain deserve a separate comment because it is surprising that almost the same thing is dedicated to Arab House, 1.2 million, that to Casa América, 1.3 million, and also that being the entity responsible for the international image of Spain, its budget spends practically everything on salaries, studies and entities that act in Spain and nothing in campaigns abroad. It also has no budget reserved to influence in a real way the international public opinion to maintain and rescue the image of Spain, especially after the records of mismanagement of the COVID. [[Applauds]] I finish my speech. Our amendment as a whole is based primarily on five reasons that I am going to put forward. The first of all is that they are unreal budgets that start from macroeconomic assumptions that no one believes. The second is that it is useless for us to introduce partial amendments to budgets which are already agreed with Mr Sánchez's investment partners. Do you realize now, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens? Third, in general they are a short and sticky of the previous ones, without worrying too much about sharpening the pen and adjusting to the real economic possibilities of the nation after the crisis of the COVID. As I said before, they shoot with gunpowder from the king. Fourth, in general, they are budgets that divert a great deal of resources to the advanced ideological agenda and not so many to solve the real problems of the Spaniards, budgets that in many cases do not serve only to create placement offices for friends and related to the ideology they want to implement, creating a client network for this purpose. It looks like the international relations budgets of the PSOE and Podemos, not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Spain. Finally, because we think that in times of crisis and scarcity of resources the intelligent and prudent, rather than being indebted and dispersed, is to adjust and concentrate efforts on what is necessary, and not on what is indispensible and useless. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Asarta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, thank you very much for making a wide-ranging journey, understanding the essential management aspects of the ministry, the great challenges of the government as a whole, because when we look at budgets we need to look at a foreign budget from a cross-cutting perspective, and you have done it and you have done it well, too. But before delving into the content, the strategy, the political will to manage the foreign body, we are puzzled in the Socialist Parliamentary Group when there is no mention of the weight, of Spain's leadership in the European Union in July 2020, this year. It's funny, because everything is said here, absolutely everything. Independent agency. I ask you, gentlemen of the right, do you know what structural funds, cohesion funds, social funds are? When did they count on an agency to monitor? Do you question the maturity of the European Union to vertebrate the economic resources and the capacity and maturity of the Spanish Government to channel them? Why do they say so much barbarity? [[Applauds]] Yes, the Government of Spain. Yes, the Government of Spain, I say it well. [[Applauds]] The Spanish Government has never had an independent agency, because you know as much as I do and the rest of your ladies and gentlemen that all European resources are going to be properly monitored, but you are more interested in demagoguery, you are interested in releasing barbarities after barbarities and shooting because it touches me. That is the constant permanent to which you have us accustomed. And listen, because you talk about the image of Spain on the outside. And what do you do for the image of Spain abroad? To go to the Council of Europe to say that Spain is not a social and democratic state of law? Is that what you bring, Madam Member of the People's Party, to the image of Spain abroad? Coming here and constantly questioning the image of Spain abroad? Do you know that Spain is the most competitive country in the world from a tourism point of view before the pandemic? Yeah, I'm telling you openly. [[Mrs Martínez Ferro utters words that are not perceived]] Because right now there's no tourist activity, that's all. [[Applauds]] Do not continue to demagogy with Spain and the image of Spain because Spain is all of us, not you. Spain is all of us. [[Rumors]] I know who I have to tell...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u20	And you're not going to interrupt me in this intervention, which is all you do is screw up and screw up, and it's all you know how to do. But you are not going to respond to everything I am saying, because you know that you are doing it exclusively to damage the image of a government and a country no matter what. I'll tell you something, Mrs. Popular Party Member. You speak and show your concern about the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and speak of a missed opportunity and speak of a bad budget and that it is noted that this socialist government - Social Communist as you call it - does not have a commitment to international relations. Please explain to all of us why official development aid and humanitarian aid fell by 70% during the People's Party government. Why? Can you explain it here? [[Applauds]] And why with the Socialist Party and the coalition government with the United Nations can we go up? Because of our sensitivity, maybe? Or not? Of course I do! And this budget is perfectly vertebrate. As other countries have done within the framework of the European Union, I will tell you, Sir, that all countries in their budgets incorporate budgetary instruments to channel European resources. Of course I do! Or do you expect us to continue to rule with decrees with Montoro's extended budgets? Is that the purpose of the People's Party, to continue to clumsy? No, we do not accept the amendments - you say - but what have you proposed for this Foreign Ministry in this budget? Absolutely nothing, Your Honor. Absolutely nothing. In any case, we are drawn to apocalyptic interventions which speak little less of an absolute irresponsibility of this government, which is an inconsistent budget, that of the independent agency and a barbarity, Mr Sayas - I do not know where you are going - an unprecedented barbarity: that European resources will be allocated to the finger. But you know what he's saying? Do you know that this cannot be done, that it will not be done because, among other things, it is European Union budgets - both non-refundable and credit - that are going to be perfectly monitored by the European Union? But do you think you can launch that contradictory message aimed at confusion and have no consequences? I'll give you the answer: that's not possible. And that's not so, you're lying. You miss the truth, over and over again. [[Applauds]] You lie and I won't let you come here and slander a government because it's not true! That's not true, Your Honor! And there is something else that is not true, because these budgets also include for Navarra - as you enter the territorial sphere - both the Navarra channel and the high-speed train; by the way, neglected for a decade by the governments you support from the People's Party. That is a clear example of the Socialist Party's commitment. [[applause.- Mr Cabezón Casas pronounces words that are not perceived]] Your Honor, you speak of the election of the Socialist Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u21	Mr. Head, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u22	... to bring this budget forward. The election has been held by you in Madrid, Andalusia, Murcia and Castile and León. That's the choice of Citizens, not ours. Ours, the election of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is the concern for the citizenry and draw a budget forward that Spain needs as a matter of urgency. [[Applauds]] That is the concern and that of you and that of your group, beyond showing will - which, by the way, continue with the hand stretched out - is to come up here and say barbarity after barbarity. What choice have we had? The responsibility and commitment to carry out a budget? Is that the choice? What sense of state have you shown? Do we remember last year's electoral processes and citizens' responsibility to this country or don't we remember them? [[Rumors]] [[The Rumors Continue]] [[Mrs Martín Llaguno utters words that are not perceived]] I will simply say to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group: 139% increase in the budget in the field of education, that is what you say and criticise here the lack of sensitivity of this government to education. And by the way, a little more information is needed because some scholarships such as Fulbright depend on other governments, such as the United States, and it is a matter of cooperation and coordination. Simply, Minister, to conclude, we must make a titanic effort to put these resources right, to channel them and to execute them in a hundred percent. It is a commitment of this Government. We have to assert that action, we have a huge responsibility and an opportunity with the United States, with Latin America, with the African continent and with the great migration challenge. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gómez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 13, Justice We continue with the debate in section 13, Ministry of Justice. For the section's presentation, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u24	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I appear before this House to present to you the budget estimates of the Ministry of Justice contained in the draft Law on General Budgets of the State for 2021. During my speech, I will present the outline of section 13, addressing the most prominent items within each of its chapters and make a brief reference to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, as expressed in programme 110.A of these budgets. Before I begin my presentation, however, let me express the importance of these budgets for us to move forward. We have to push for the transformation of the country. We cannot afford to enter European recovery funds without adequate legal and structural support in order to do so. The Budget Bill of 2021 is the most expansive of recent years and contains the largest social spending in a decade. These are budgets designed to contribute to social but also economic recovery, in the face of the crisis caused by COVID-19, and in particular the public accounts that we need to strengthen the public justice service and undertake the structural reforms that our justice needs. They include a consolidated budget of the Ministry of Justice and its agencies amounting to EUR 2144 million, 7.5% more than in the previous year. State expenditure on public justice policies for 2021, with a total budget of EUR 2048 million, amounts to 7.6%, an additional EUR 144.3 million compared to the base budget for the previous year. This means that the allocation levels of all the programmes in Section 13 will be exceeded if we take into account the historical series of the last ten years. We are therefore faced with an appropriate budget to initiate a process of complete transformation of the public justice service, consistent with the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals, but governed by a principle of responsible and realistic implementation. As I have said on more than one occasion, we must not only spend beyond where it is necessary, but also spend better, and we will do so among all, following a model of co-governance between the State and the various autonomous communities with transfers in the field of justice. From the amount I have indicated, the participation of the Ministry of Justice in justice policies - including here the Centre for Legal Studies - reaches the sum of 1975 million, which means an increase of 136 million euros over the previous year. For its part, the participation of the General Council of the Judiciary is 73 million euros, with an increase of 8 million euros, i.e. 12%. Justice, therefore, is progressing and shaping itself as an essential public service, whose development and transformation will be promoted through the new 110.A programme, designed to articulate the European Union's Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. First of all, I wish to introduce the main budget items in our section 13. I'll start with your chapter 1. The overall staffing of chapter 1, staff costs, is 1604 million. This amount exceeds 6,6 %, the previous year's credit. The departure for staff at the service of the Administration of Justice increases by approximately 99 million, mainly due to the shock plan that we have launched and that we are currently deploying. The amount of the plan for 2021 is 43.78 million. The remainder of the increase corresponds to the salary increase agreed by the Government for staff members. With regard to the judicial and prosecutorial career in a context such as the current one, the call for 2021 of 240 new places of entry for judges and prosecutors is, believe me, a great news. We must maintain a stable pace of creation that we hope can continue and, if necessary, increase in the future. With regard to staff in the Administration, the overall system of free access and internal promotion totals 1,452 positions. I would like to point out that the proposal for vacancies represents 100 per cent of the troop replacement rate and an additional 10 per cent is foreseen by 2021, as justice is included in areas requiring troop reinforcement. Therefore, I can convey the great news that the difference between the number of fixed employees, who ceased to serve in each of the fields and bodies during 2019, and the number of fixed employees who joined them is covered. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly proud of the effort that these budgets make in Chapter 1 of the justice sector. Human capital is essential so that the provision of this essential, historically under-funded public service can lead us to the future. Moving on to chapter 4. For this chapter, current transfers, the budget amounts to EUR 65.03 million, representing an increase of 11.2%. Of the projects consolidated in this chapter, 75.6% of the budget in this chapter is free legal aid. The benefit of free justice underpins one of the pillars of the rule of law, such as accessibility. We must therefore congratulate ourselves on the effort that is being made in this area. I also warn you that the Government is working on a number of legislative initiatives that will further expand this important social right, which will lead to slight budget increases in future years. We can do more as a society to ensure everyone's access to justice, and we are doing so. Moving on to chapter 6. On the side of the real investments covered in Chapter 6, there is an increase of EUR 22.5 million, largely as a result of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. In total there are 194.95 million, of which 62% will be devoted to the digitisation of justice, approximately EUR 120 million, and 24%, i.e. 47 million, to infrastructures, equipment in court buildings, judicial offices and, of course, to the toxicological institute or institutes of legal medicine. I am pleased to inform you at this point that today the Council of Ministers will approve the creation of thirty-three new judicial units for next year. As you know, this is a mandate from this House to the Government contained in Law 3/2020, and we have fulfilled it within the prescribed time frame. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is fulfilling its obligations. With regard to structural reforms, I make special mention of the project to transform the Civil Registry with 12.3 million euros, which will implement a civil registry model based on people, public and free, fully digital and with full participation of the autonomous communities. It is worth highlighting the impetus to the technological development necessary for Law 20/2011 to be a reality through Dicireg. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the new Civil Registration Act in 2011, this House has had to agree year after year extensions for its entry into force, a democratic anomaly and also an institutional failure that these budgets come to repair. Already in February, I committed myself at this headquarters to promote the transformation of the Civil Registry at once. These budgets confirm and support this commitment. In organizational terms, as you know, we propose starting from 431 general offices in the localities that are party leader. Therefore, it is a project with which the 431 courts of instance that we hope to implement through the new law of organizational efficiency that we have discussed before are easily aligned. This will obviously be complemented by the judicial offices in the municipalities. Digital transformation is one of the main thrusts of the justice project. It is, therefore, the main lever for process improvement and has a meaning reflected in these budgets. The overall budget for digital transformation is now EUR 10.49 million, an increase from 2020 of 2.1%. Here the importance of the creation of the Directorate-General for Digital Transformation, which will articulate and manage all this investment, is highlighted. The technological transformation of the administration of justice and the prosecutor's office within the 112.A program, which for us is tremendously relevant, has a total investment of 102.09 million euros. At this point, the digitisation of the judicial bodies to which we will allocate €72.4 million covers the most important item, including the improvement of procedural management systems and associated systems. Here, for example, they highlight the updating of the technological bases of the application systems for the amount of EUR 35 million, aimed at a sustainable electronic judicial record; the complete updating of audiovisual services of view rooms, with EUR 4 million, renewing the infrastructures and establishing a system of video recording and textualization of recordings with automatic transcription systems; the centre of technological attention to judicial users with EUR 7.5 million, in which we will make progress with the Connecta Justicia programme. We will also complete the implementation of the digital justice solution in the National Court and the Supreme Court, with 1.2 million euros. With regard to the digitisation of prosecutions, EUR 15 million is planned to address improvements in the technology centre for tax users, the completion of the digital prosecution, improvements in the applications of the prosecution and in the training of users of digital prosecution services. I shall now turn to the consolidation of electronic communications, with EUR 7.4 million. The main focus of the item is on improving and consolidating these communications, such as LexNET, Hermes, Electronic Judicial Headquarters and the General Access Point of the Administration of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these projects, EUR 7.1 million, 9.2% more than the previous year, will be allocated in the sub-secretariat area to investments in new equipment and programme licences, which will lead to better service delivery. Finally, the appropriations allocated to this chapter also include investment in infrastructure and equipment, for which an amount of EUR 47 million is foreseen. The appropriations allocated in this regard will provide the basis for the deployment of an ambitious programme of sustainable headquarters of the Administration of Justice for the years 2022 and 2023, including the design and implementation of the new judicial offices in the municipalities. This expenditure is of vital importance, not only for the proper provision of the public justice service, but also as an element of the vertebration of the State through the infrastructures of justice. In addition to the appropriations already mentioned in Chapter 6 for works, this Ministry will have the financing of energy transition projects and for decarbonization in judicial and administrative offices, through the credits of the State Energy Secretariat of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge from the European Union Recovery and Resilience Fund. I turn to chapter 7. This chapter, for appropriations for capital transfers, has a budget allocation of EUR 8 million. This is a credit that is entirely dedicated to internal transfers, mainly are transfers to the Generalitat of Catalonia -7 297 990 euros - by the judicial bodies put into operation between the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. I shall now refer to programme 110.A, that is, the mechanism in which the whole system of recovery and resilience is inserted. As you have seen, these are the transformation budgets of the Justice Administration, and this is what this 110.A programme points out, which will allow us to start programming structural reforms in a co-governance scheme. They will agree with me that it opens up more than a window of opportunity with the decisive impetus of Europe for the quality of our public justice service. The budget allocated specifically to justice is EUR 410 million, spread over three years, involving structural reforms, quality of justice public service and rule of law. The 110.A programme, to which 27.74 million euros will be allocated in 2021, will allow during the next year to promote the technological measures of the zero project of Justice 2030 that were agreed with the autonomous communities for the management of the pandemic and digital mediation, jobs relocated and pre-date. These three technological measures are essential, and they are essential for health security against COVID, and require a final push for implementation. The year 2021 must end with the significant territorialization of these measures of the zero project, in a coordinated manner with the autonomous communities with transferred competences. This will not only ensure the continuation of the public service of justice throughout the territory in the face of possible changes in the health situation, but - and this is very important - we will also have managed to implement what will be de facto the digital infrastructures of the new architecture of the Administration of Justice - an architecture that will be regulated in the following legal instruments, of which you have already heard me speak: the preliminary draft law on procedural efficiency of the public service of justice, the preliminary draft law on organizational efficiency of the public service of justice and, finally, the preliminary draft law on digital efficiency of the public service of justice. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we can already concentrate the execution of the bulk of the funds of the 110.A programme, EUR 382 million, over the next 24 months of the 2022s and 2023s, and do so in a realistic and fully coordinated manner. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by transferring something you have heard me say on other occasions. The success of our projects will depend on our musculature in design, development, project implementation, and accountability. Therefore, what we have ahead is a great challenge, a great challenge that we can achieve by co-governing and co-responsibility; an opportunity for justice that we cannot miss, and I can assure you that we will not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Mr BAL FRANCÉS: Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. First of all, I will begin by referring to the three main thrusts of our amendments which the Socialist Group did not want to accept, which the Spanish Government did not want to accept with this democratic spirit, according to which all the amendments that come from the Socialist Group and its partners are good and all the amendments that come from the opposition are bad, except one from Citizens, the single health card; in all the others, we are always wrong, you always agree. Pure sectarianism. First of all, Minister, do not really take away the offer of public employment, from the 240 places of judges, judges and prosecutors, because they are less than last year's, which were 300. I have already told you from this rostrum many times, we continue in an average of judge per inhabitant that is ridiculous with respect to Europe: of 11.6 judges per 100,000 inhabitants when the average is 21.2, of 5 prosecutors when the European average is 11. Let's put it in 300, which is what we wanted. We have also sought infrastructure works with regard to this justice that is in the bones, a justice that is famile and that remains famile in these budgets, and you have not wanted to vote in favour of the amendments regarding the rehabilitation, for example, of the City of Ciudadela courts, the City of Justice of Valladolid, the digitization with 10 million euros precisely against the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, the Cartagena courts, the courts and courts of Cáceres, but also the buildings of Mataró or Sabadell and many other reforms of the infrastructure of justice, of buildings that you know fall apart, of officials who are working without heating, without air conditioning, in difficult conditions, and their response to these citizens, to these officials, to these lawyers, prosecutors, judges and magistrates is no!, you do not want to undertake these reforms. Finally, it draws my attention powerfully to how you are able to boast of the office shift. But if he has dropped a million and a peak of euros the departure to the General Council of Spanish Law in matters of shiftwork! If this year he has had to introduce an item of 1 800 000 euros to settle the differences for the 2019 financial year! But what are we talking about?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. When from his own ministry it is recognized that it will increase litigation and when in budgets the Iprem is raised by 5%, which is the basis of calculation of free justice. Have you not realized that there will be more free justices in an impoverished country, with the Iprem rising, with great litigation and you are not able to meet the needs of the office shift? Yes, that important public service to which you refer, which exercises effective judicial guardianship, and to which your ministry does not attend, does not attend! Mr Simancas said that we were voting in favour - yesterday he said - of a number of amendments from other parliamentary groups, that we are voting in favour of the amendments which are good for the Spaniards and which are removed from ideology!, not like you, who consider only the amendments that come from the Government and the Socialist Group to be good. And do you really try to fool the Spanish with the partners who have been thrown into these budgets, tell me who you're going with and I'll tell you what the Socialist Party is like right now saying that we're voting against the Royal House? Do you dare to question my party's loyalty to the real Constitution by agreeing with Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia? You think the Spaniards are dumb and still treat them like little children! [[Mr. Simancas Simancas makes affirmative signs]] [[Applauds]] Minister - I am still with you - you like to bend justice either by action, by omission, by imposition or, as is the case with budgets, by starvation, you want to end justice by depriving it of resources. You are comfortable - and, above all, your partner in government, United We Can -, very comfortable with a slow justice, a jammed justice, a famile justice, in the bones. And I clearly demonstrate this with the figures, which we are talking about for that reason: the Recovery Fund, the Recovery Mechanism and the Resilience to Justice, 27 million of 27 billion European aid. That is what justice matters to you, Minister, 27 million divided by 27 billion. My children would say it very easily: you care about zero-coma justice, followed by a lot of zeros. He cares nothing; otherwise, he would have given more means to justice. But, above all, it is that justice in these budgets is something important. We do not see how important it is, but it has been the currency of exchange, it has been the currency of exchange to obtain the support of Esquerra and Bildu, and this is a shame; it is an absolute shame that the General Budgets of the State are changed by pardons, changed by the reform of the crimes of sedition and rebellion, looked elsewhere when tributes are paid to prisoners and Pernando Barrena is pleased that a terrorist who killed a military man returns after twenty-three years to his people, to Hernani, with a corridor applauding him. [[Applauds]] Yes, it is exchanged for the rapprochement of prisoners to the Basque Country, it is the currency of change, the justice that provokes the accessions of Bildu and Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. Yes, to justice, which fought against the coup d'état in Catalonia, you leave it abandoned. Against that, do you know what you're doing? What you do is lift the financial controls of the Generalitat so that they can do it again; it helps, in short, the criminals, and you confess it in this weekend's interview. It is an a la carte reform, it is a reform to benefit certain people, and this, Minister, is unacceptable. We need economic reforms and you reform the Penal Code. We need help for the self-employed and you help those who want to do it again, those who want to commit crimes. We need tax cuts and you lower the penalties for the crimes of sedition and rebellion. Prosecutors, judges, judges and officials without resources and you content Bildu and Esquerra. Yesterday a well-known journalist from this country described very well how the relations of this government are by a phrase from King Lear: it is calamity of these times that the mad people take the blind hand. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker should disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak very briefly to defend a BNG amendment for the creation of new gender-based violence courts and also to endorse the amendments we have tabled in their entirety. To combat gender-based violence effectively, action is needed on many fronts at the same time, starting with the recognition of the problem in its full dimension and the development of social awareness strategies. And it is important because there are still terraplanists, also in this House, who are committed to denying reality, to denying the existence of macho violence. Of course, the consequences of doing so are extremely serious because it means legitimizing that structural violence, including murder, which every year suffers thousands of women because of being so and, above all, leaving the victims helpless. Less than a week ago, on November 25, we kept a minute of silence, we participated in social awareness events, as I said, essential. But here too, it is one thing to preach and another to give wheat. The fight against gender-based violence also requires strong means and actions by public administrations, including in the judicial sphere. For this reason, the BNG incorporated into the investiture agreement as an essential measure the creation in Galicia of three new gender-based violence courts, because the existence of specific courts applying appropriate protocols is also essential for the proper treatment of cases with protection for victims. In Galicia there are currently two courts of gender-based violence, in A Coruña and Vigo, insufficient to deal with the more than 6,000 complaints that are presented each year in our country, so creating three new ones - in Lugo, in Ourense and in Santiago - is fundamental. Two of them, by the way, are within the forecasts of the General Council of the Judiciary, that of Ourense and that of Lugo. Our amendment aims to promote the creation of these courts by providing them with the necessary means to enable them to start functioning as soon as possible. It is a sensible, reasonable and, above all, absolutely necessary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am sorry to have to say that you have been very grey. Many figures in your presentation, but little data and less analysis, if any. I will therefore begin my speech, Mr Campo, explaining why my group has tabled an amendment to the entire budget section of its competence. We have done so because, no matter how much you commit yourself, we are before a terrible budget for the public service of justice; we are sorry, Minister, and toxic. Mr Campo, these budgets are an unusual budget slap from Sánchez to the Spaniards on the cheek of the public justice service and, if I may, also on his as minister. And this is intolerable because we are talking about an essential public service that requires a fair distribution of budgetary resources that is not produced here. Furthermore, we have tabled our amendment in its entirety because we believe that these budgets are the best exponent of their failure as a minister. You know the respect I have for you, Mr Campo, but when you look at the budget document and see how of the EUR 27 billion that will come from the European Union you have been able to get only 27, that is, a thousandth part, you can conclude a single issue and that you are not a good minister and that this government is only interested in justice to occupy it. Mr Campo, in colloquial terms of my land and in budgetary terms - I am very fond of you - Sánchez has made you a budget charge. It is clear that his sympathies are much more pronounced by the Attorney General of the State. In my country you would be told, Mr Campo, that you paint fava in this Government, in which Sánchez has reserved for you the unfortunate role of playing correveidile between the Government and separatism and, therefore, the person responsible for granting pardons and amnesties, the person responsible for adapting the crimes of sedition and rebellion to the demands of separatism and the person responsible for the release of prisoners convicted of the trial. It hurts me that this is the sad role that the President of the Government has entrusted to the Minister of Justice of Spain, who is of all Spaniards, and it hurts me because, moreover, you are comfortable performing it. And what I regret - I insist on my appreciation of your person, Don Juan Carlos - is that you will be reminded by the same lack of guts in the negotiation of the budget with which you still remember Joaquín Rodríguez Ortega, aka Cagancho, after his sad performance in Almagro, very similar to his in these budgets. Your decision not to fight for more resources, Minister, i.e. your decision to stock up the budget morlaco from the mockery of your official car, sacrificing all the policies of your ministry, reminds us of Cagancho's unfortunate performance in mandega lands. And it is that their lewdness has a consequence: to renounce to recognize justice as the essential public service that it is. That is why we ask you to return the section as a whole and ask you to be able to get those resources that are so lacking. Call Sánchez, Minister, and, even if he is in a genuine attitude, take pride, plead and get those funds not for you, but for the Spanish. Do not give up, do not throw the towel as from the tone of your intervention seems to be deduced. Indeed, you are the Minister of Justice whom Sánchez appointed, but you are above all the Minister of Justice of all Spaniards, and this brings you, forces you and urges you to defend the public service. Mr Minister, our amendments are based on the assumption that you were able to get those funds and we have therefore decided to strengthen the ministerial policies that you are undermining. But I must say that I did not like some of your interventions in recent weeks, when I was talking about breaking the incremental dream to justify the lack of funds that, according to you and your Secretary of State, are not able to manage. Answer me and explain why you cannot manage more resources from that European fund and other ministries. Why not? Why do other ministries do and you don't? It gives me the feeling that, if you are not able to manage more and others yes, there is only one conclusion, and that is that you are less capable or lacking the same ambition as your colleagues. Therefore, Minister, your apathy is a serious offense to the Spaniards, to the public employees of justice and to the rest of the legal operators. Minister, by getting just 27 million of the 27 000 that the Ministry's policies are at stake, there is only one solution: to get those resources. Our amendments are born out of this logic. More judges and prosecutors are needed and there is also a need to expand the supply of public employment for national bodies. In the previous budget there were 300 seats; this time there are 240 and you boast about it when we are on the line in Europe as far as the number of judges is concerned. It has decided to lower the budget for free justice and has done so in times of crisis, when a strong, solid and economically well-endowed shift of office is to be needed. You have forgotten the justices of the peace, many of whom carry out their work with special penosity, being a fundamental task. The process of digitization of the Civil Registry is lagging behind an annuality. It has reduced investment in judicial infrastructure from 100 million to just 40. He has forgotten the professional colleges that, despite representing the great wealth and legal diversity of this country, they have no help in the budget in these difficult times for the lawyer and for the demand. There is no budget allocation for the courts that should be created and to which you committed. Minister, I could go on. In short, our amendments have aimed at correcting the cuts that have taken place in your ministry. That has been our commitment and our goal. I'm gonna wrap this up. As the greatest notary of the kingdom, I understand that you have taken note of the fictitious macroeconomic data on which the budget document is based and have taken note of the ignominious transfers that embarrass socialism of good. You have changed prisoners for budgets and given in to separatism, embarrassing the vast majority of Spaniards. We have chosen the path of dignity. We are going to say no to the cuts you propose and we are going to fulfil the civic duty of using budgets to continue fighting terrorism. We do so by amending the document to create a section of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National High Court to help clarify the unresolved crimes of the terrorist gang ETA. [[Applauds]] Minister, I know very well that these are two different ways of understanding the budget. You have chosen ignominy. Yesterday it was said by an illustrious socialist like Nicolás Redondo Terreros. The literal phrase was: the success of democracy was to defeat ETA. His success, the success of his government, Mr Campo, is to whitewash Bildu, to rule with Bildu, to twin the socialist youths with the youths of Bildu in Navarre and to rule with Churches, whose photos and talks in the herriko taverns, as well as the gooses that Mr Vice President had to exabrupt yesterday are the real insult to the Democrats who - they did - defeated the terrorist band ETA. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u30	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. The plural majority of the investiture has re-expressed and confirmed that, when progressive and plurinational forces are understood, Spain and its peoples advance in rights, democracy and justice. It's been like this throughout history and it's been like this again now. For this reason, I wanted to start by thanking him for formations such as Esquerra Republicana, Bildu and PNV for wanting to leave behind some austerity budgets, a legacy of the People's Party marked by the degradation of public services, the cuts in rights and corruption. I think it is difficult for someone with the same sense of responsibility and social sensitivity to say that these budgets are not necessary to shield the public health system, to strengthen social protection in the fight against inequality or to promote in a progressive and ecological key economic reconstruction and transformation, but also to modernise the justice system, which brings with it endemic problems which, now, with these budgets, will be able to be solved. The spokesman for the People's Party, Mr. Santamaría - who today has been disguised as VOX - says that these budgets are a slap on the face of the Spaniards and that they are toxic. That's not true. The truth is that these budgets are an important compass for setting up a programme of radical transformation of the Justice Administration, with measures such as teleworking, the pre-date, the generalization of judicial licenses by videoconference or the creation of new justice offices, things that have not been done for decades. It is a giant leap that brings us closer to Europe and to the goal of zero paper, which allows us to put an end to the agglomerations, to the excessive bureaucracy of justice, which allows us to make justice more effective and bring it closer to the citizens, as well as to reduce the environmental and territorial gap, especially that of emptied Spain. That is why I wanted to congratulate the Minister for his work, which he has explained brilliantly in his speech, for raising such important items as the training of prosecutors and judges or the operation of the system of free legal aid, that for those of us who have been lawyers of the office we know how important it is for the maintenance of the rule of law. But we cannot fall into self-congratulation, Minister. Much work remains to be done and to bring the European countries up to speed in our immediate environment of justice. Therefore, let me tell you that the expertise and speed you have shown in addressing the agenda for the transformation of justice contrasts with the clumsiness and slowness in dealing with certain outstanding subjects, such as the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. We agree with the European Commission when it warns that we must put an end to the situation of kidnapping and entanglement that the right wing maintains in the administration of judges; that situation is intolerable. And we are concerned that yesterday a supposed imminent pact with the People's Party, which the People's Party itself has denied, came out in the media. We too agree with what the European courts, international organizations, such as Amnesty International, or most of this country's guaranteed professors and jurists say when they talk about the need to reform the sedition crime. It is not true, Mr Bal, spokesman for Citizens, that there has been an exchange of chromosomes with the independenceists in relation to that, as you say, but that is a commitment to the PSOE and the United Podemos legislature. There's no exchange of chromes. What worries you, what frightens you is that we have a justice that goes away from the last century and supports rights and freedoms. That is why we believe that it is not good news, Minister, that yesterday you proposed not to comply with the timetable you announced yourself two weeks ago; it is not serious. We have already made a proposal to bring our Criminal Code into line with European standards and it is on your table. There has been a pandemic, it is true, but after a year of government we cannot wait any longer. How is it explained that we do not yet have a specific proposal and have not even responded to our proposal? How much time does it take? I'm done. We welcome, as you said yesterday, that Europe should open its eyes to this issue, but now is the time to move from words to deeds; we cannot wait any longer. Nothing seems as unfair as late justice and every day that goes by without addressing that reform is one more day of injustice. The forthcoming Catalan elections have to be held normally and it is an anomaly that there are still independent prisoners in prison. We need to end that anomaly, we cannot afford that collective failure and it is our responsibility to avoid it. That is why I believe that any proposal to unblock the conflict in Catalonia is inevitably due to its de-judicialization and to address this issue without further delay. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u32	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, this draft General State Budgets - I mean the State of Spain, not the confederation of crazy plurinational republics and progress; we are talking about the state budgets, the budgets of Spain - has a budget line in this area of EUR 2144 million. This represents an increase of 7.6% over previous years, which, according to the European Commission's report on the effectiveness of justice, would be a good figure, because Spain would be spending €78.8 per inhabitant per year against the European average of €40.79 per inhabitant per year. Therefore, we should say that this is good news, we should be happy and satisfied because, in theory - in theory, ladies and gentlemen - more money for justice should be more legal certainty, it should be more agility, it should be a more efficient judiciary, but it turns out that in Spain more money, more public spending, means less efficient justice and, therefore, much less justice. Spain is among the countries whose administration of justice is slower, more ineffective, more inefficient and more politicized; therefore, where justice is less administered. Let us go to comparative data with the European Union. If we look at the ratio of the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants, it turns out that Spain has 11.5 judges and magistrates compared to the European average of 17.7; we are behind the European countries, the country 22 of 28. Therefore, when you tell us that these budgets are going to create 240 new places for judges, magistrates and prosecutors are cheating, you do not even cover the vacancies that exist due to death or retirement; when we talk about the number of prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, Spain has 5.2 and the European average is 11.25 - more than double - and if we talk about time to resolve matters, we are also in line: Spain is the country 25 of 27 countries. Less matters are resolved each year than those that arise, then the ball, the delay in administration grows and continues to grow; we have an average of 200 days of resolution for a matter at first instance. There are some budget items that, in fact, are powerfully drawing our attention. For example, this 8 % increase for the salaries of senior officials of the Secretariat of State for Justice, 8 % increase!I would also like to say that this is an absolutely indeterminate term, where we do not know where that money is going to go, 18% ascent! and I am no longer saying anything about this rise of 21% for the departure of 'other studies', which we are surprised that it cannot be done by the officials themselves. In conclusion, Minister, more expenditure on gross domestic product than the European average and we have worse justice, with worse results. Minister, it is not about spending more, it is about spending better, it is about being more efficient in spending because all the mismanaged public money - remember this, Minister, all the mismanaged public money - is nothing but waste money from the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And in case it were little, even if it was serious to have a slow and ineffective Justice Administration, the bottom line is far more serious: we cannot even say that we have a truly independent justice. We have seen this in recent decades when, in violation of the spirit of the Constitution, the first Organic Law of 1980, of the Judiciary, have been divided between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, the seats of the General Council of the Judiciary, where those twelve members, who should have been elected by and between judges and magistrates or between and between judges and magistrates, have been divided between and between the People's Party and the Socialist Party and its members. [[Applauds]] But we already know how you face the fact that the blockage of the appointment of constitutional bodies must be broken. Well, look, from VOX we are going to give you a great idea: to end the blockade of those constitutional bodies - gentlemen of the PP, take note also - what must be done is to take the dirty hands of the political parties from the organs of justice and let it be the judges and magistrates, as the constitutional spirit said, who choose them. But we already know how the film begins and, sadly, how it ends: those nations where justice began to be controlled, as in Venezuela, ended up falling into a dictatorship. And what about the prosecution, where we already have in front of the prosecutor general of the Socialist Party, not the state. And now, one more nut squeeze, to see if you get, as you claim with the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, that the investigation of criminal proceedings also depends on the prosecutors, who in turn depend on the prosecutor general of the Socialist Party, who in turn depends on Mr. Pedro Sánchez and Paul Iglesias. That is the reality, but, we have said it once and a thousand times and we will not tire of saying it, if there is no independent justice, we cannot talk about the division of powers; if there is no division of powers, we cannot talk about the rule of law; if there is no rule of law, we cannot talk about democracy and if there is no democracy, we cannot talk about justice. That is the simple and pure reality. But this does not just say VOX, the majority associations of judges and magistrates, such as the Professional Association of the Judiciary, the Francisco de Vitoria Judicial Association or the Independent Judicial Forum, represent 92% of the judges and magistrates of Spain. They are denouncing what is happening: judicial independence is being put at serious risk. I'm done, Madam President. I end up coming down from this rostrum, but do not believe, Minister, that I am going to talk to you in private, as Mr Bal has done, which he has not said in public this time. We say it in public and we don't say it in private.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. Your time's up. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised that the spokesman for the PP is bringing in Taurines today. Really, VOX has taught his gang perfectly. By the way, speaking also of Taurinian similes - then I will explain it - Mr Bal, your party has done what is called a'span' in budgets. Speaking of budgets, Minister, I would like to thank you for your intervention, for your work in the ministry. They are necessary budgets for justice, for the country and for citizenship. I would also like to thank you for your effort in co-governance, which you have explained and which you have set in motion. These days, moreover, we know some key pieces of this Government's legislative action. Its commitment to collaboration, coordination, communication and co-governance works and results. You carry a ministry that is a model of efficiency - we have commented once - procedural, organizational, legislative and budgetary, and it makes it very difficult for those who want to criticize these budgets, because here, raise the voice, raise the voice many, but amendments, gentlemen of VOX, zero; the PP, twenty-eight, and Citizens, eight. It means that this budget was not so bad either. Of the 1500s, Mr. Spokesman, only twenty-eight, of which seventeen are for new buildings. By the way, you know that we have agreed thirty-three this year and one hundred in three years. Ladies and gentlemen, these are extraordinary budgets, as has been said, for an extraordinary time. In the future, when you evaluate what happened, what was discussed, what was voted on in this House, you will take your hands to the head that in the worst pandemic in a hundred years some put their personal selfishness before the general good. You let go of a perfect opportunity. With a tired, exhausted citizenship, worried about this coronavirus, you didn't know how to live up to the moment. It is a pity, as some of us say many times, that the presence of the far right in this House not only stifles the debates, but also blinds its ability to have a speech and an attitude up to the point. Mr Bal, I appreciate your parliamentary management, we have made some agreement, and I know that you are more comfortable in the agreement, but I do not buy your excuses and I think you do not accept them either, because do you know what is going on? That when fear of VOX enters through the door, political courage comes out through the window. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the evidence is overwhelming, it is a good budget for justice, with an increase of 7%, EUR 140 million. We like the lyrics, but we like music even more, a music that conveys seriousness, commitment, planning. These are budgets in line with what you put forward as Justice 2030, that tractor project to transform justice and for economic recovery; an integral architecture of the building, and these budgets lay the foundations, because Mr. Spokesman said that there were only 28 million resilience funds, but you know that in 2022 there will be more, because 2021 is a year to make efficiency laws, as you have commented. A Civil Registry Act, the LECrim or the Procedural Efficiency Act are examples of what we will do this year at the legislative level. I also give some examples of these budgets: 28 million in digital transformation, 43 million in jurisdictional shock plans or 8.4 % increase in social spending for the most vulnerable. I am also making a point on an issue that my group is very concerned about, and is very concerned about, as some people raise their voice and deny it, there is. This budget has an increase in gender-based violence of 13.8%, reaching almost EUR 67 million to combat this social scourge. Only these two examples, digital transformation and gender-based violence, are sufficient to be able to approve these budgets. Those who do not will not find a convincing answer in the future to why they did not. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that Junts' spokesman is not here, but I would like to make a few comments, because sometimes in this House, some parties, especially yours, are praising catalanity. Well, look, a Catalan MP is speaking to you. There are forty-eight Catalan Members in this House and it seems that thirty-six will vote yes to these budgets and twelve will not. I don't want to go in who's with whom, I want to go in the evidence. Look, in my land a lot of people have been saying they're Catalonia, they're praising themselves for everything, and even the last president says his best move is to do nothing. For that is over, that excuse no longer works, look for another, because there are Catalan Members in this Chamber who support these budgets. You do like that child who, when he wants to hide, puts his hand over his eyes. Take your hands off your eyes because the reality is there and the reality is that these budgets are good for Catalonia, good for justice and good for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 14, Defence The next item is the debate on section 14, Ministry of Defence. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this debate to present to this House the content of the draft State General Budgets Act for 2021 as far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned. Let me begin this intervention by expressing my gratitude, my appreciation and pride to the 120,000 men and women of the Armed Forces who at this time, serving the Constitution and from the strictest political neutrality, are on missions abroad, on permanent missions, making trackers in the Baluarte Mission as they did in Operation Balmis. [[The Lord]] Let me also pay tribute to the 188 men and women of the Armed Forces who died defending peace, freedom and security in the world in peace missions. And I pay that same tribute, recognition and pride - for them and their families - to all those members of the Armed Forces killed by terrorism and particularly by the terrorist gang ETA. [[Applauds]] My gratitude and pride to all those who in their day wore the military uniform, who are now retired and continue to take care of the values that the castrese institution defends of political neutrality and of service to the citizens. My recognition within this area to those who have worn the military uniform and who today, in a legitimate choice, are here, doing politics in their parties and defending what they believe are the interests of the citizens; to them, my recognition, although we are so far away. But what I can never recognize, and I believe that no Spanish Democratic citizen can do so, is those who, relying on a military career that they no longer serve and from which they are far away, without defending Castrian values, pretend to involve with missives the head of state, their majesty the king, violating the fundamental key that is political naturality. The head of state, his majesty the king, is of all, not of some who, certainly, with certain letters and missives involving his majesty the king, are not doing what they have to do as public servants nor defending those values that characterize precisely the Castrian family and the military family. My pride, therefore, in being a Minister of Defence, in representing the men and women who are currently in active service or reserve in the Armed Forces, those who, being retired, comply with the principle of political neutrality and, of course, my lack of recognition for those who defend themselves, who are, I would say, imbued with the military uniform, which they no longer have the right to wear, to involve the king in his majesty. [[Applauds]] If we look exclusively at the budget of Section 14 in the current financial year, the defence budget will be provided with appropriations amounting to EUR 9411.93 million. Resources thus grow by EUR 417 million, 4.64% compared to 2020. Including the self-governing agencies and the National Intelligence Centre, the consolidated budget amounts to 10,499 million euros, without accounting for the expansion of appropriations for peace mission operations. I am interested in qualitatively analysing the aims of these budgets and how we will materialise their objectives through the breakdown of the main chapters. Let me begin, logically, with chapter 1, staff costs, which devotes several lines of action to staff resources, which is the most valuable capacity of the Armed Forces. The appropriations allocated amount to EUR 4928.16 million, representing an increase of EUR 175.53 million and representing 52.4 million of the total defence budget. The objective for which we will continue to work is to achieve excellence through an effort in training and selection that will enable each post to be filled with the most suitable people, and that is an irrevocable objective, as it is to continue with the improvement of the living conditions of military personnel, especially those of troops and navy. We will also continue to support reconciliation and equality policies, which are fundamental to achieving real and lasting progress. These credits - and I care very much to highlight this part - will enable us to meet all the salaries of the department's staff as well as to take a first step in a process of reviewing the salaries of military personnel. This initiative includes updating the salaries agreed with public employees and the instrument programmed in the staffing tables for next year. In particular, let me tell you, as regards the concrete implementation of the EUR 175 million increase in Chapter 1, that we are going to make a special reference - something that is important to us - to a structural improvement relevant to the troops and navy. The change in the basic level of the destination supplement from the current 13th to the 14th is a structural change that has permanent retributive consequences, as will the wage increases that, immediately after these budgets are approved - and we will try to make it on 1st January - will be made to the lowest salaries of troops and navy of the Armed Forces, which are those who receive lower wages. We will immediately get to work so that these increases can be made effective as of 1 January, once we do the appropriate administrative processing. In addition, today's Council of Ministers agrees, on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence, to increase the availability supplement for all military personnel on the reserve, which will thus cease to see this concept cut by 20% in their salaries when they move on to this situation of availability. A very important but fair effort is being made, and they will be able to perceive it fully with effect from 1 November 2020. I would also like to stress that it is expected that 3,500 soldiers and sailors will be incorporated into the Army and the Navy in January 2021, and new selection cycles with an anticipated offer of 6,500 positions will be published throughout 2021. A significant effort has also been projected in the number of places offered for the ratio of permanent services, reaching the 1000 places planned for 2020. With regard to civilian personnel, the recently approved Royal Decree 936/2020 of 27 October, which incorporates the offer of public employment, includes a major special effort for the defence hospital network. In this current crisis situation by the pandemic and as a result of lessons learned from Operation Balmis and Mission Baluarte, we will improve military health resources. To our military health professionals, our infinite thanks for all the work they have done and are doing with absolute generosity and defense of our values. [[Applauds]] To finance the training of Armed Forces personnel in the forty-five military centres, a total of EUR 439.69 million will be devoted, an increase of 2%. In particular, we will make a major investment in education, specialization and work guidance for troops and seafarers, which will be increased by EUR 2 million to strengthen the Consue+ and Directions for Employment programmes. We also want to address what was our political commitment to reconciliation policies and to improving the living conditions of the men and women of the Armed Forces. We will increase - what I said in my first intervention - the places in child education to facilitate the reconciliation of family and military life of our men and women. [[Applauds]] It will be increased from twenty-five to twenty-nine child education centres, with 294 new places in child education, employing resources of €5.51 million. The second increase will be EUR 25.4 million directly related to the living conditions of our professional military personnel in the field of communication so that they can improve, by this ease in communications, their personal and family relations. With the current expenditures, ladies and gentlemen, on the goods and services of chapter 2, the objective is to maintain an operational, fully prepared and trained Armed Forces; an Armed Forces capable of sustaining the deployment of the forces necessary to maintain both its permanent missions and commitments to international organizations and the defence of national interests abroad. The appropriations available for 2021 amount to EUR 895.6 million, representing 9.5% of the total budget and an increase of EUR 75.95 million. The so significant reduction accumulated in the last ten years - I am not going to blame anyone here, because I think we all have a sense of state - forced to prioritize the training and enlistment of the assigned units to integrate into the core of the joint force and into operations abroad. We are aware that the 2008 levels are not yet reached, but we believe that these budgets help to restrict the trend in this direction. I would like to highlight the budgetary reflection of peacekeeping operations, and with regard to chapter 2, there is an increase in the provision for peacekeeping operations to meet the financial needs of our units abroad. With regard to the resources in Chapter 4, which covers current transfers, financial contributions to the international security agencies to which Spain is a party are financed. Because Spain is a strong, serious and reliable ally in all its international commitments, primarily the European Union and NATO. And we also include in these expenses what refers to the INTA autonomous body, the National Intelligence Centre and some of the training expenses. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with the resources of Chapter 6, dedicated to real investments, the objective is to obtain and develop the defence capabilities necessary to confront the current strategic context. We also managed to support the Spanish defence industry, so that Spain would remain at the forefront of technology, while helping to boost the economy and the national productive base and ensure self-resiliency. It is necessary to equip our men and women with the Armed Forces, our most precious asset, with the best means available to carry out their missions and, at the same time, to contribute to the creation of jobs, as we are doing in many areas of Spain. The appropriations available in this chapter amount to EUR 3090 million, equivalent to 32.8% of the Ministry's total budget. These figures are not the result of predetermined figures in previous years, which are modified in the light of budgetary availability, but, as everyone knows, defence planning is envisaged on broad horizons of one or more legislatures. We are particularly interested in modernisation plans, with an increase of EUR 177.1 million, 8.2% compared to 2020, to tackle the growth of financial commitments made for these programmes in previous years. As I pointed out earlier, these programmes are essential for maintaining the operational capacity of our Armed Forces, providing credibility to national defence and helping to ensure the safety of our men and women and of all Spanish society, creating jobs. Although implemented with Section 14 funds, these programmes serve the objectives of defence policy, but also contribute to those of other State policies, as I said earlier, employment, industrial or foreign action. They also provide technological independence to Spain and Europe and, therefore, it is necessary to highlight the effort made to increase the amount of research, development and technological research in the field of defence, which in 2021 represents 30.44 million euros, an increase of 7.96 million euros. Finally, I would like to point out the presence in this project of Programme 120.A, of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which, within the policy of defence spending, collects the credits allocated to this ministry from the European Union's recovery funds, allocating 75 million euros to promote digital transformation. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that the budgets are conditioned by the economic context of the crisis, but they serve us to make a commitment determined by the recovery and to give Spain the role it deserves internationally. These are budgets that advance in improving the condition of the lives of the men and women of our Armed Forces. We want our military to have the highest levels of security, keeping the operation of our Armed Forces intact. These budgets follow the path of the National Security Strategy and the National Security and Defence Policy directives and set out a change of trend and a solid foundation for the future. In short, the budgets of the Ministry of Defence will enable us to work to respond to the objectives of the defence policy; a defence policy that aims to protect the whole of Spanish society and its Constitution, which is, like all its institutions - the monarchy included - a heritage absolutely of all Spanish citizens and for which we will continue to work in defense of the values and freedoms that this Constitution brings and that our Armed Forces, with generosity, surrender and with absolute sense of love for Spain and the citizens, are developing every day. We are proud of our Constitution, our Armed Forces and the role that their men and women play in Spain in the service of citizens, our Constitution and democratic values. From this line that always follows this generous action of the Armed Forces, of those who respect political neutrality and who have no temptation to fall into their past and in military uniforms, it is of which I, like the Minister of Defence, am so proud. I am grateful in advance for the support of the parliamentary groups for the adoption of these budgets. Let us never forget that defence policy is a state policy. This government has always worked on this, and I hope that all the forces that are called the state and that want Spain and its Constitution will work on that. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u38	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u39	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like my first words to be a recognition of three institutions: the Crown of Spain, with its majesty the king as first of our soldiers, our Armed Forces and all our State Security Forces and Bodies. They are three institutions whose values reflect what is Spain, a plural Spain, but a united Spain, of all and for all, which bases its pillars on our Constitution and on the defense of our democracy. Minister, I want to tell you that these are bad budgets. I believe that these are not their budgets, I am convinced that they are not the budgets you wanted for the Ministry of Defence and for the Armed Forces, and they are bad budgets because, for starters, they do not even comply with the National Defence Directive that you adopted in 2020, and I will quote you two points from the whole directive within the objectives of defence policy. Neither (i), which speaks of maintaining the technological level and operational capacity of our Armed Forces, nor (n), which speaks of improving the quality of life of the men and women of our Armed Forces and decent working conditions. This document, the National Defence Directive, is signed by one Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, President of the Government of Spain; so they do not comply and are not able to comply with their own directive, so I also say that they are not their budgets. But it is that, moreover, Minister, you have come today to defend the budgets and have brought us, as well as from the joke, an agreement of the Council of Ministers that you have just taken on things that, of course, many of these groups have amended in these budgets, as is the subject of the reservation. Listen, why didn't you want to agree with the rest of the groups? Why does it come to us today with the defence of budgets to say what they have adopted in a Council of Ministers when these are amendments that we have tabled in various groups in this House? Is it not even in that, in giving reason to the groups of the House in something you had not been concerned about, which is the conditions of the reservation, that you are able to negotiate with the other groups? See how they're not their budgets? Because I know that you would not have done that; I know, minister, that you would not have done that, of course not. By the way, they are now proving this without budget allocation. Man, no budget! Well, nothing, that's why we're discussing budgets. Do you see how these are political budgets, how there really is none of these budgets that has a minimum of seriousness and rigour? Your Honor, with regard to operational quality, we are losing capabilities and you have done nothing to correct it; the loss of our capabilities is already historic. But these abilities, which cost very little to lose and very much time to recover them, are based on what you want us to continue to do our armies and the Navy, which is to continue doing more with less, and the gum can no longer stretch out, minister, this gum is no longer enough. We have lost capabilities and we have committed capabilities because we have fewer ships at sea, we have problems with our wheeled vehicles and our chained vehicles, we have problems because we are cannibalizing those resources so that we can replace the maintenance and be able to pull forward a little bit; we have lost our anti-submarine capability - the submarine, I don't want to tell you -, we are losing our artillery capability, on-board aviation is in serious trouble, and what I'm going to tell you about the trainer planes. All these loss of capabilities will be noted by our armies in operations, operations that you refinance on the basis of Contingency Funds and not included in the General Budgets of the State. Thus it is impossible to make planning, minister, and without good planning it is not possible to do a good exercise of operations, of what is to come, of acquisition of capacities and of maintenance of capacities. All this is that you never know when it's going to arrive or how it's going to arrive. On the chapter of men and women of the Armed Forces, you have come to say many things that are purely cosmetic. We have the worst paid soldiers in NATO, we have precarious wages, we have already said this here many times, even in interrogations, and I recognize part of the effort, but it is very insufficient; very insufficient. About the troops and the navy, what I'm going to tell you I haven't told you yet, Minister! It is not possible to keep our troops and navy under such conditions, it is not possible not to continue to rely on a single law of the military career, it is not possible that you would not even admit the amendment that during this pandemic you would suspend the dismissals to the military when you are 45 years old; it is that not even that recognition. Then their mouths are filled to talk about the men and women of the Armed Forces, but they have not even had the courage to recognize that work they are doing during this pandemic, so hard for everyone, and to paralyze these layoffs. Where are the promises made by your partners, Lords of Podemos, where are your electoral promises about the troops and navy, where are they? Where are your amendments? Where is your work to improve conditions, to improve the precariousness of our troops and navy? Nowhere; nowhere. Have you not listened to the associations so much that you were talking to me about having to talk to them? Where are your recommendations to these budgets? I am glad about the reservation, but I believe that there were amendments that went much further in recognition of the men and women who make up our Armed Forces. Of course, these are only the budgets of your partners, Minister; they are not yours, they are the budgets of your partners. We've already heard it from the gentlemen of Esquerra. The gentlemen of Esquerra want to eliminate the entire section of the Ministry of Defence. You don't have anything to say about that, because they're the ones who're going to support your budgets. You don't have anything to say about that? And what am I going to tell you about Bildu or the Basque Nationalist Party, to whom you hand over Loyola's barracks? These are the payments to these budgets, Minister. Are you then going to vote against all the amendments, against all those amendments that you have tabled both Esquerra and the Basque Nationalist Party or Bildu? Your Honor, I will remind you of what Mr de Esquerra said in one of the amendments: The Army is a macho and mafia institution, which keeps sexual harassers unable to convert into a democratic institution and unable to pursue fascist demonstrations. With those gentlemen, minister, with whom you think that of national defence, it is with which you are going to draw the budgets. These are political budgets, Mrs Aizpurua told us yesterday: progress in national freedom, historic solutions. Is that what you want? Are you willing to hand over this country's defence budgets for that? Madam Minister, what a pity! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u40	Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u41	Thank you, President. We are in favour of all our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u42	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, very good morning. I am speaking to defend the amendments of the Parliamentary Group, which I take for granted, and to table the amendment to return the section itself. Both the Governor of the Bank of Spain and the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority have labeled these optimistic budgets. The European Commission warns about debt control and announces uncertainties about the availability of recovery funds. We perceive them as unreal, with income expectations not sufficiently supported by the prospects for the evolution of the national economy. All this seems to be irrelevant when it comes to preparing budgets and setting significantly high expenditure expectations. We perceive precipitation in a law, such as that of budgets, which may require boldness and determination, but never haste; it is the law of budgets that will be processed in the shortest time in the history of Parliament. It gives us the impression that, as the Minister of Finance has said, there is a need for budgets in order to be able to receive aid from the European Union, regardless of their suitability for solving the real problems of the Spaniards. In a recent press article it was said that with these budgets we can put ourselves in the 1% of GDP target. It is well known that, for a long time, we have made a commitment with our allies to reach 2% or to get on track to do so. Apart from a commitment to our allies, the real need for defence budgets to grow is more peremptory. The budget is designed to ensure the training of our units and the support of our material, which guarantees the safety and effectiveness of our Armed Forces. This also means that staff expenditure, although high in the budget as a whole, at around 52%, as I have said, does not allow adequate remuneration to be allocated to our professionals, 52% against 48% when it should be 40% against 60%. It is not that the staff expenditure is high compared to the armaments and materials, it is that the overall budget is short. It is proposed among the objectives of the sector to increase aerospace technological research when the budget allocation for programme 464.A, which includes the National Institute of Aerospace Technology, is reduced by 12.56 %. The specific budget lines for the fight against the pandemic, in which we are still immersed, are missing. There are two references to it in the descriptive part, but without allocation of specific items, with which the effort made by the Armed Forces will once again do so against their training credits. Budgets should reflect what Parliament proposes at its meetings and committees, the impetus of government action. Today it has brought one of the agreements reached in the Defence Commission: the elimination of the reduction of the salaries of the military in the reserve to sixty-three years. We appreciate this, but, as the previous speaker has said, it was tabled by amendment and it has been vetoed. The Government vetoed the amendment, but decided to support it in the Council of Ministers. Well, welcome. The same has not happened with the reduction of the wage gap for all military personnel, raised by the linear increase of the 100 euros, because what is proposed is not an increase in salaries at the same rate as the rest of the civil servants, but rather to reduce this wage gap between the military, specifically, and the rest of the public employees. Although apparently in the budgets a much higher amount is allocated than in 2018 in real investments, in the 122.A and 122.B programmes, special modernization programmes, it does so at the expense of the expenditure on real investments for training and logistical support, which are reduced by 25% respectively the first - real investments in training expenditure - and by 48% the second, under logistical support. Apart from all the above, as a result of the Government's link between the alienation of an army quarter, that of Loyola, in San Sebastián, and the approval of budgets in an extra-parliamentary negotiation between the Government and the Basque Nationalist Party, I must say, Minister, as the speaker says, that works are love and not good reasons. After almost a year of express expression of consideration and respect for the role played by the Armed Forces and the sacrifice they make - I absolutely support all the demonstrations that they have made throughout the year and those that they have made from this rostrum in their presentation - they are used in an unworthy and dignified manner, by agreeing to their eviction from the barracks in which they have served the Spaniards for almost a century to obtain the affirmative votes of the Basque Nationalist Party. The Third Old Regiment of Sicily number 67, created in 1534, has been linked to the city of San Sebastián in different modalities since 1719, three centuries ago. The Armed Forces, faithful to their commitment to Spain and to the well-being of all Spaniards, have analysed with absolute loyalty and in detail the different proposals that have been transferred to them by the City of San Sebastián in order to identify an alternative accommodation that allows to make available to the city for its urban expansion the land of the current Loyola quarter, namely: Zubieta, Antondegi, the Hipica Society, which seems to be its final destination, and Belartza. All of them have been assessed as inadequate to carry out the transfer of the unit. To this loyalty and nobility of action of the Armed Forces has corresponded with disloyalty and contempt for the dignity of this unity of the army, provoking an unholy, unworthy and hasty eviction, without clear expectations of being able to proceed to an adequate relocation in another part of the city. It seems that here, in this particular aspect, the Government does leave someone behind, but it does not matter, because they are only soldiers from Spain, perhaps - perhaps - the most humble of our nation's public employees. For all the above, the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting this amendment to return section 14, Defence, of the draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2021. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u44	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mestre Barea has the floor on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u45	With your permission, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much for joining us in this debate on the budget and thank you very much for your words of praise to the men and women of our Armed Forces. Minister, I say to you with all sincerity and respect that I do not know how to praise you in case that could harm your future political career. [[Laughter and applause]] I already told him that he should take care of the friend fire, because the friend fire, when it's political, is always intentional. To begin with, we must recognize that the debate on this year's budget has provided a lot of suspense for knowing who supported it and who did not support it, the bite that was going to be taken by everyone and who was going to be the victim. The victim has, of course, been the Spanish people, and there have also been some collateral victims - I think with tenderness in my citizens' bench neighbors, who have also been unfortunate victims - by last-minute bites, such as fiscal harmonisation focused on Madrid or Loyola's headquarters handed over to the PNV. While Hollywood may have popularized the genre of suspense, Moncloa is certainly doing everything possible to perfect that art: the art of masking, the art of deception and the art of suspense. [[Applauds]] It seems that defence is an issue of interest to very few, including the Government, as these budgets show. Looks like we don't have any enemies, looks like we don't have any borders. Let us remember here the phrase: The earth belongs to no one, the earth belongs to the wind. And another sentence: Over the Ministry of Defense. This is a tremendous irresponsibility, and we hope, for the good of all, that we do not have to regret it. Let us make it clear: the appropriations provided by the Government in its draft budgets for 2021 for the Ministry of Defence are absolutely insufficient to equip, prepare and sustain the armed forces that Spain needs. The Ministry of Defence will have a budget of approximately 9 billion in 2021. This also accounts for approximately 2% of total budgets. The bad news is that these figures are made with revenue forecasts by the state that are very unrealistic, according to us the governor of the Banco de España and the AIReF, so it is to be seen what juggling games will have to be done in the end to meet these amounts. In this way, Spain's defence effort remains below 1% of GDP and this rate is perhaps the lowest in the Atlantic Alliance countries and is far removed from Spain's commitment of 2% at the 2014 Wales Summit. This is not what I am saying, but also what the head of the Defence Staff, the Jemad, said in his presentation of the budgets to the Defence Commission, said that, despite the 4.6% increase, it is still insufficient to meet all its needs, such as the necessary training of its personnel or the maintenance of the available material. Maintenance and maintenance are two absolutely essential items for the operation of our Armed Forces and are 35% lower than in 2008. This requires a dramatic prioritization of the most urgent needs and has meant that the Armed Forces have a high percentage of immobilized material owing to a lack of resources. The Chief of Staff of the Navy, who had acknowledged that the proposed budgets did not meet their needs, also said so. This will lead to the renunciation of capabilities in the coming years, which could mean the renunciation of some of the Navy's most important missions. Inadequate provision of defence has very undesirable consequences, such as the growing irrelevance of Spain as a strategic player in the international order, the risk of losing military superiority in the region of the southern flank of Europe when some of our neighbours are arming themselves to their teeth and the State's irrelevance in the permanent structured cooperation of the European Union, a mechanism that has a very decisive impact on our defence industry. But not everything is bad in these budgets. I have to admit that reading the memory accompanying the programmes produces feelings of satisfaction and pleasure. That is all my group considers important in terms of defence: the consideration of our men and women as the most valuable resource or the determined commitment to research, development and innovation. But let's get to the reality of these budgets. If we bet on R & D, why have research and development allocations been reduced by 15% and why is the INTA budget reduced by 19%? If we bet on our personnel, why, compared to level 16 of the draft Royal Decree amending the Salary Regulations for Armed Forces personnel, do these budgets leave soldiers and sailors at level 14? Investing in defense, emphasizes the Chief of Defence Staff, is saving lives, and has demonstrated it with Operation Balmis and the humanitarian aid operations that our men and women perform so successfully abroad. Investing in military capabilities means investing in the defence of the Spaniards, in addition to a catalyst of the national defence industry. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u46	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u47	Good morning, President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. We do not live in a utopian world, we do not live in a society without risks, without threats or dangers, on the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a world that is full of aggressions, whether in the form of human perversity, or in the form of natural catastrophes or physical, psychological, economic, social, digital, wars throughout its spectrum or in the form of a pandemic. I wish we lived in that utopian world where none of this existed, I hope so, but, ladies and gentlemen, bad luck, we do not live in that society, it has not touched us. To achieve this model of utopian society must be our goal; to leave the best of the legacy to our sons and daughters, the goal: a society where the coexistence between free and equal people, which is not uniform, is peaceful, without aggression or threats, without violence, without hatred in any of its expressions. I wish one day the Armed Forces weren't necessary, but today they are, today they are. We need armed forces that guarantee our security, armed forces that are the last bulwark in the response to the violence our society receives, armed forces that guarantee the prudence and maintenance of our democratic and coexistence values. Ladies and gentlemen, in this imperfect world we need armed forces, whether we like them or not, and it is in our hands that these are the faithful reflection of what our popular sovereignty decides they are. They are our Armed Forces, yours, yours and mine; they all belong in our Armed Forces. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they are our Armed Forces, yours, even if you deny them some of your lordships. Now they deny with a big mouth, when with a small mouth they open their doors to floods and floods, when they build bridges, when they help schoolchildren to reach the schools here and beyond our borders, when they play life among the flames that tear our forests while protecting our lives and homes, when they enter the residences to help and save our elders from the grip of the virus, when they report water in drought, blankets or firewood in winter, when they watch and accompany our dead, when they collaborate in the rescue or directly rescue people, more than 14,600 in the Mediterranean, more than 750 in the Canary Islands. This is an honor for Spain, this is a homeland. And, yes, of course, our Armed Forces are trained and trained to ensure that they are prepared for the war conflict, if necessary, in implementation of the tasks entrusted to them by the Constitution, thereby fulfilling the mandates of the Courts, as stipulated in the National Defence Act, since it is the Courts who control the Government's action in the field of defence. These budgets, in section 14, are for our Armed Forces, those of Spain, yes, those that serve our democracy and not the past, our present and our future. In order to fulfil their tasks, they must therefore be provided with sufficient financial resources to cover the emoluments of their staff and a public job offer that will be more than 100 % in order to cope with the debacle of loss of strength during the Government of the Right; a lot of homeland and flag. These are budgets which increase by 4.6% the previous budget headings, which will allow the emoluments of our military to be raised in a context such as the current one, and that is what this government, the Socialist Party, is doing. These are budgets that will support the industry, so that our Armed Forces are equipped with the appropriate material to enable them to maintain operational capabilities at appropriate levels; an industry that generates 2.5 euros to civil society for each euro that is invested; an industry that has been put patriotically like no other at the service of society for the manufacture of sanitary material, respirators, PPE, during this pandemic; an industry that guaranteed logistical corridors so that the material acquired abroad would arrive in Spain and not be lost along the way. Yeah, these budgets go along with that, too. These are budgets for an Armed Forces that continue to advance in equality and plurality - not in vain, among its members are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, heterosexual, white, black, mulatto, Catholic, evangelist, atheist, agnostic, Jewish and Muslim - a pluralist, diverse forces; an Armed Forces for a democratic Spain; an Armed Forces built and transformed with the effort of many soldiers, such as General Gutiérrez Mellado, whose death on December 15th will be twenty-five years old, a military that fought for our Armed Forces to become a fundamental pillar of our rule of law - a true example -; they are, in short, an Armed Forces with democratic values fighting for freedom and not libertination. 'For freedom I unleash bullets/from those who have rolled their statue through the mud. / And I untie myself at the blows of my feet, of my arms, / of my house, of everything. // Because where an empty bowls dangle, / she will put two stones of future look, / and will make new arms and new legs grow / in cut meat. // They'll shoot sap wings without autumn / relics of my body that I lose in each wound. / Because I'm like the cut tree, which I pick up: / because I still have life. ' They are budgets, in its section 14, for freedom, equality, diversity, plurality, security and, above all, unity; budgets for a democratic Spain that leaves behind the past and a future Armed Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u48	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 16, Interior We continue with the debate in section 16, Ministry of the Interior. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to your ladies and gentlemen to present the budget section for the ministry whose leadership I was entrusted with by the President of the Government on 13 January. I would therefore like to begin by thanking all 170,000 public employees of the Ministry for the work they have done on the front line during the health crisis in our country and, also, Mr President, to show my appreciation to the members of the State Security Forces and Bodies who have lost their lives as a result of the COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin this speech by making a brief assessment of the budget allocated to the Ministry of the Interior for 2021. We are faced with a budget which, as it cannot be otherwise, is aligned with the main objectives of the State's General Budgets, which are nothing more than an economic revival, the digital and ecological transition, the creation of employment and also the strengthening of public services and territorial cohesion and the promotion of effective equality between men and women. They are public accounts, ladies and gentlemen, committed to the United Nations 2030 Agenda; public accounts that constitute the encrypted and accounting expression of security recovery as a public good; public accounts that are undoubtedly the first deployment of the 2030 Security model, which this ministry wants to develop during this parliamentary term. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, excluding the autonomous bodies, amounts to EUR 8 906 736 290, which implies an increase of 15.90% in relation to the last budgets approved in these General Courts. This budget makes the Ministry of the Interior the fourth of the Government departments in terms of investment and expenditure. It is an appropriate budget to move forward on the broad lines of the legislature that I had the honour of presenting last February to the Congressional Committee on the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, I will move forward with the main aspects of the budget following the outline of broad lines based on three major areas of action and nine major axes which form the model I was talking about, Security 2030. It is a model that is born with the firm vocation to ensure the different environments in which citizens develop their lives. The physical, territorial environment, we could say, will also be better protected by measures such as the more than 7 million euros to continue in the modernization of the border perimeter of Ceuta and Melilla, having invested today, in the last two years, in that modernization of the border perimeter, an amount of 23 million euros, which are completed with these more than 7 million euros. Also, the continuation, with more than 12 700 000 euros by 2021, of the process of boosting and improving the capacities of the Asylum and Refugee Office that we have been developing in recent years in line with the increase in its staff, which has multiplied by five the number of troops since June 2018, when the Socialist Party - first, and later, with Unidad Podemos - acceded to the Government. This office will also be strengthened with a further EUR 650 000 for the new comprehensive management system for international protection applications. I should also point out the strengthening of police cooperation with countries of origin and transit to combat the mafia trafficking in persons, which by 2021 will amount to EUR 43 550 000. Within the sphere of space, there is also the secure digitization, commitment of this Government and uniquely of the ministry that I have the honour to lead. It will also be a preferred area of action for exercise 2021. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior will provide €4,218,700 for various projects relating to the renovation of the ministry's technological stock, but also for the digital transformation of the ministry. In this regard, as the senior posts in the Committee on Budgets have already anticipated in this House, the main innovation will be the impetus for the project of the new electronic DNI, for which EUR 6 250 000 will be allocated as part of a wider project with EUR 25 million for the biennium 2021-2023. Mr President, the modernisation of the National Civil Protection and Emergency System and the improvement of its capabilities in emergency and vulnerability situations that we are seeing recently will be reflected in the increase in the budget to nearly EUR 15 million. Progress towards the eradication of the road violence in our society will also be reflected in the increase of more than 7% in the budget of the Directorate-General for Traffic, which with 822 million euros will be the largest in the last nine years and which will include measures such as the following. Firstly, there is a commitment to investment in road safety disclosure and information, which will be provided with the sum of EUR 13 400 000. There is also the 13% increase in Chapter 1 to strengthen the pool of examiners, which has increased from 734 in June 2018 to 802 and which is pending to incorporate 40 examiners of the offer of public employment and 50 for internal promotion, to which will be added in the coming year another 35 of the offer of public employment and also 50 for internal promotion. I refer to this point because of the concern expressed by various parliamentary groups and by the Socialist Group itself and the Government in such a sensitive matter for many Spanish citizens. Secondly, there is an increase in Chapter 2 by 45% to improve - we continue with the Directorate-General for Traffic - the digitisation of procedures in the Directorate-General for Traffic, renewing equipment and processes, but also the application you will already know, miDGT. Finally, Chapter 6 incorporates a 60% increase aimed at strengthening and increasing the mechanisms for monitoring and controlling traffic regulations: 2300 radars, to which 75 will be added next year, 28 new drones and 216 high-definition cameras for seat belt control or mobile use. It is never done for a purpose - I always like to say it - collection, but to prove the fulfillment of something as important as responsible conduct in the field of road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, the second major area of action relates to ensuring coexistence. These budgets make it possible to make steady progress in this direction. Firstly, in Chapter 1, it increases by 3.3%, with an increase of more than EUR 231 million, with more agents of the State Security Forces and Bodies, after seven years in which the governments of the People's Party - as we have repeatedly recalled - cut down 12,000 troops. The public employment offer of this year 2020 has been of 5540 police and civilian guard positions - as did the previous 2019 - and the system of prison institutions is strengthened, since with 1054 new places increases its budget for staff by 9.52% compared to the budget of 2018. But there are also other important measures. Firstly, more than EUR 13.5 million is proposed for compensation and aid to victims of terrorism and for the inauguration in 2021 of the Centre for the Memory of Victims of Terrorism in the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz. It is also included in Chapter 6 - which is increased by 22.4% - a total of 10 800 000 euros for the reinforcement of the Gibraltar Field Plan, in which we have invested more than 40 million euros since July 2018, of which we are already seeing its results and which has allowed the State to recover the initiative against organized crime. At this time, I would also like to thank the Security Forces and Bodies that are implementing that Gibraltar Plan in really difficult situations, but with an absolutely positive result and worthy of recognition. These budgets also involve improving the AlertCops application, strengthening the resources of the National Office for the Fight against Hate Crimes and the ROCA teams of the Civil Guard, or plans for vulnerable groups, such as the Major Security Plan, all of which are covered by the more than €305,000 that integrates the specific budget of the Secretariat of State for Security for this purpose. Not to mention the increase, of course, of personnel and material and personal means for the UFAM units of the Police and Emume of the Civil Guard to fight effectively against the macho violence. For the continuous improvement of the formation of the State Security Forces and Bodies, 4 million euros are also envisaged for the start-up of the university center of the National Police and more than 433 000 euros for the new lines of action of the University Center of the Civil Guard. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, none of the measures forming part of the 2030 Security model would be possible without providing the extraordinary human team of this ministry with decent working and remuneration conditions and without adequate protection measures in the face of this situation that we are going through, that is, without giving effect to the third major area of action of this department which is nothing other than that of generating public value. Mr President, I have referred to the recovery of the troops cut off by the People's Party in State Security Forces and Bodies, also in Prison Institutions. At this point, I would like to recall that, together with the increase in the number of staff, Chapter 1 incorporates the completion of the wage-equalization agreement, which, with the approval of the third tranche, was launched this year and which will definitively consolidate a total of EUR 807 million in the State General Budgets on the payroll of the National Police and Civil Guard officers, which have increased by 20%. I would like to remind you that you are already charging the third tranche with effect from 1 January of this year. Nor do I want to forget the infrastructure with some data. The Infrastructure Plan 2019-2025 for the State Security Forces and Bodies, for the Civil Guard and National Police, is endowed with an amount of 600 million euros according to the agreement of the Council of Ministers of January 2019, which will entail an investment in the budgets of 2021 of 42.8 million in prison infrastructure and 90.4 million, as I have said, in units of the Civil Guard and National Police. There is also a 60% increase in Chapter 6, investments by the Directorate-General for Traffic, for the rehabilitation, reform and improvement of the premises of the Civil Guard Traffic Group and provincial traffic chiefs and more than EUR 10,668,000 in plans of the Secretariat of State for Security, among other measures. Nor do I want to forget the renovation of work equipment, such as the acquisition by 2021 of more than 5800 new bulletproof vests or the increase in investment in transport elements, which, with a growth of more than 90%, will allow the National Police to renew the vehicles on their own, from a combined perspective of safety and of course environmental sustainability. Or, for example, the new 520 light vehicles and coaches to be purchased within the chapter of the Civil Guard's real investments, which grows by almost 10% to EUR 43 300 000. I do not want to end without reminding you that to the ordinary investment of the department we must add the investment that will be generated within the framework of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, which will include in our case and for the moment various actions in the field of the digital transition. I remember the momentum of the Digital Identity project, with an investment planned for the year 2021 of EUR 6 250 000, within a three-year plan with a total amount of EUR 25 million. To this will be added other lever projects managed in a coordinated way throughout the General Administration of the State, in the fields of digitization, ecological transition and justice from which the Ministry of the Interior will benefit. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. And I do so by reiterating the alignment of the budget of the Ministry of the Interior with the main objectives of the General Budgets of the State, recalling that they are a necessary and essential step for the implementation of the model of Security 2030, based on ensuring the environment, ensuring coexistence and generating public value, as well as on the further development in our country of a concept of human security that retains its reactive capacity, but that incorporates preventive, anticipatory elements and has in people its centre of action. These more than €89 billion are the encrypted and accounting expression of the commitment of this government and this minister to the recovery of security as a public good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u50	Thank you so much. Mr García Adanero has the floor for the defence of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that I hoped that, while defending the ministry's budget on the fundamental lines for the year 2021, account would also be taken of the great contribution that the Ministry of the Interior makes to the approval of these budgets. As everyone knows, not everything that is used to approve budgets can be done through amendments. There are issues that are being made through budgetary amendments - such as those that have been discussed and will be discussed over time - and then there are other things that are not going through amendments but that are of fundamental importance, much more than the amendments themselves, for the final adoption of that budget. That is, easier to explain, Euskal Herria Bildu is not going to table an amendment to bring prisoners closer, but prisoners are coming - more than a hundred - so that Euskal Herria Bildu can approve the budget. That does not come from amendments, but it does. I think it is normal for the minister, in the budget debate, to say so. No amendments are tabled to allow ongi etorri. They are not presented, but the Minister of the Interior allows them so that a budget can be approved. The normal thing then is for the minister to come here and say it, so that we all know what to do with it. It is not normal for an amendment to be tabled so that prisoners can be visited, when no one can leave their home; it is not normal. Then it's normal for the minister to come here and say that you do that for a budget to be approved, and so we all know what to do with it. [[Rumors]] It is not normal to visit prisons by leaders of a political party, when no one can leave the house. An amendment has not been tabled to that effect, but the minister can come out and tell us that this is done so that the budget will then be approved. That is the great contribution of the Ministry of the Interior to the approval of these budgets. That has not been said and is the greatest contribution of the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the most unworthy. In return, it is said that at least something is done by the State Security Forces and Bodies that defend the freedom of all Spaniards. Neither, because you talk here and it seems like you've made the match, but no, you haven't made the match. The State Security Forces and Corpses are still unpaid. They're not being taken care of. You say big numbers, but you're not being taken care of. That concern that you have for prisons applies to prison staff, who are in a deplorable, not only economic, but in all respects, employment situation, and is not being helped. You know that. They are not being treated well; instead, they are being mistreated. All that remains to be added is the humiliation of the transfer to Logroño prison. In case they had little, on top of that. That's what the Ministry of the Interior is doing. Therefore, in addition to all the items he says, that many are normal and usual and have always been in the budget, the great contribution of the Ministry of the Interior - I repeat - to the approval of this budget is what you have not said and what I have said here, which is true indignity. That is what Euskal Herria Bildu's vote gives to that budget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u52	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u53	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Two years ago we read in the press and we received the message of the Moncloa: 'Sánchez promises 22 billion euros for Catalonia if the General Budgets of the State are approved'. Then independence presented an amendment to the whole, independence said no to the crumbs and demanded to put the fundamental rights, freedom and well-being of the citizens of Catalonia at the center of the negotiation. Catalanism had never been conformist, until today. Budget implementation in Catalonia has not reached 70% in the last 20 years. This failure to implement the General State Budgets in Catalonia has a debt of more than €45 billion. With Podemos and the commons in the government some told us that now yes, that now things would change, that things would be different. This year's headline, the message that comes to us from Moncloa this year, is that Sánchez offers €2 billion for Catalonia if the General Budgets of the State are approved. With twenty-three independence votes some have preferred to negotiate alone. And what are the consequences of this negotiation alone? For the first time in the history of Catalonia, the priority has not been Catalonia but Madrid; for the first time in history, the pragmatism of sovereignism forgets the fiscal deficit and the debt of the State towards the citizens of Catalonia; for the first time in history, Catalonia negotiates to give away the little fiscal sovereignty that the Generalitat of Catalonia had. We have moved first from a fiscal pact to independence and from independence to harmonisation. For the first time in the history of Catalonia, and with an independent majority in the Parliament of Catalonia and in the Government of Catalonia and with prisoners and political exiles, sovereignism approves the General Budgets of the State in exchange for nothing. Among many things, Minister, Catalonia needs more troops from the Mossos d'Esquadra. Taking into account the population of Catalonia, and applying the 2.3 moss ratio per thousand inhabitants approved at the last Security Board, the staff would have to be 18,200 mossos d'esquadra, some more than the current finalist staff. Taking into account the current demographic reality, which is very different, the index would be close to the three mossos d'esquadra per thousand inhabitants. This should place the optimal staff at approximately 22 500 squadron mossos. However, these budgets do not take these or other essential things into account, and the worst of all, Minister, is that in Catalonia we do generate the resources necessary to meet these basic needs. All this happens at a time when the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia is forced to stop measures to prevent the expansion of the COVID because the Spanish State does not offer, by being able, economic aid necessary to bear the consequences of the implementation of such measures. And I repeat, the most painful of all is that in Catalonia we do generate sufficient resources to sustain the implementation of these measures. We are implementing measures from rich European countries, but the reality is that we are still under the umbrella and the irresponsibility of the Spanish State makes us a poor country, which cannot apply all those measures that it could do if, for example, we did not have a fiscal expenditure of EUR 16 billion a year, if we did not have an accumulated debt from the Spanish State to Catalonia of more than EUR 45 billion, or if this Government simply did not have to wait for countries such as Italy to start talking well about the MEDE credit line to realize that some very valuable months have been lost, to realize that if they had only offered Catalonia another EUR 4 billion more than we currently have on the table, Catalonia could have implemented some more measures, which are essential to stop the pandemic and could have also injected direct aid to autonomous, SMEs and the productive economy in general. Junts per Catalunya rejects the historic regression represented by negotiated harmonisation, rather than forcing, for example, the MEDE and demanding amnesty and the right to self-determination. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u55	We then bet more than ever on the independence of Catalonia and, what would become the same, we bet more than ever on the real well-being of the citizens of Catalonia. Free political prisoners and exiles and free Visca Catalunya! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u56	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Mr Gutiérrez Vivas asked for the floor.- Rumors]] Your Honor, we are in the turn of defending amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u57	Our group has tabled amendments to this section and some are alive, like all the amendments that are alive in all sections. We have made no difference in this section.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u58	One second we'll check it out. [[Pause]] Mr. Gutierrez, we're checking. If you don't mind, we give the floor to Mrs Vázquez in the meantime.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u59	For our part, there is no problem, if Mrs Vázquez does not mind.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u60	Okay. You have the floor, Mrs Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets, which are the most expensive in democracy, are summed up in bringing terrorists, pardons for the coup and a massive rise in taxes. Minister, these are the worst budgets in recent years and they are because Bildu and Mr Rufián like them, so they are bad for Spain. These are the worst budgets because they are paid with blood. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Bildu has set the price, Churches sign it and you, Mr Marlaska, pay the bill by bringing in terrorist prisoners. Look at the graph of shame, Mr. Marlaska. [[Show a chart]] Since the 16th of September, when Mr. Iglesias announced that they were negotiating budgets with Bildu, you have approached 51 prisoners in the Basque Country and since you are a minister you have approached 115. Mr Marlaska, you pay these budgets with memory, dignity and justice of the victims, and you pay them freely, that freedom for which you gave your life more than 800 compatriots killed by ETA. You can never forget that. In time, you'll realize that it wasn't worth this high payment to keep sitting there. If you still have some shame, Mr. Marlaska, paralyze the transfer to Logroño de Kantauri. How dare you take that despicable man with Ortega Lara's fellow officials? How dare you, Mr. Marlaska? [[Applauds]] These are the worst budgets, because if we take away the amount of salary equalization that my party, the People's Party, has signed, all the games are reduced. Well, not all of them. In these budgets, the only items that increase are your salaries, Minister, and those of the senior officials: EUR 130 000 more than the previous government. Aren't you ashamed of the crisis that Spanish families are suffering? How is it possible for the Secretary of Prison Institutions to charge almost EUR 140 000 while denying prison officials a salary increase of EUR 250? How is that possible for you, who like tax harmonization? [[Applauds]] Today they have the opportunity to vote in favour of the wage harmonization of prison officials, who are out there protesting. They are voting in favour of that amendment today. How is it possible that the director of the Civil Guard can charge 130 000 euros while they take away 600 euros of productivity from the civilian guards who are on the street playing their lives? Aren't you ashamed, Minister? Minister, how can EUR 32 million be increased in transfers abroad to buy vehicles, for example to Morocco, while those of the Civil Guard and the Police fall to pieces, while we have abandoned agents fighting illegal immigration in the Canary Islands, drug trafficking in the Gibraltar countryside, without vests, without PCR and abandoned? By the way, one thing about the Canary Islands: you say that you did not bring immigrants to the Peninsula because it was a gateway to the European Union. So, canaries what is it? Canaries is not the European Union? Do you now despise the Canary Islands, Minister? [[Applauds]] Minister, how is it possible that the rents will increase by EUR 11 million? To that landlord, the friend of Ábalos, to the one you bought material during the pandemic, that one did not arrive and another came and did not serve? How is it possible, Minister, that you come here today to say that the staffing that the People's Party reduced when it kept the rate at 115%, the same one that the People's Party approved? How is it possible that you are lying about an infrastructure plan while reducing the Popular Party's infrastructure plan by EUR 21 million? Ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to thank and congratulate the immense work of the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, including trade unions and associations, for having tabled 95 amendments. We gave our face and with very little time we presented our alternative in every corner of Spain to this disastrous budget. Yesterday I was listening, by the way, to a VOX Member giving us lessons in morality to the other Members and I do not consent to one. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you should understand that democracy is about voting, winning or losing. If you practiced this, more than thirty amendments would have gone ahead to improve the police, the Civil Guard and prison officials. [[Applauds]] They didn't come out because they weren't. Today the Spaniards don't owe you anything, but you do owe the Spaniards. They owe them EUR 212,000 that they should pay back because they are two weeks away without working in Parliament. Mr Marlaska, how is it possible for you to veto an amendment by the People's Group calling for a unique complement for the police and the Civil Guard, who are harassed in Catalonia, and not to veto one of Mr Rufián's requests for them to be thrown out of Barcelona? How is it possible that you will veto an amendment by the People's Group in which we ask for more resources for the Civil Guard and the Police and allow one in which they will take 400 million euros from the Police and the Civil Guard to give them to the Mossos? How can they veto an amendment by the Group of the European People's Party calling for the salary increase of prison officials while allowing one to be voted on asking for EUR 11 million for treatment in prisons in Catalonia when they have their transfers in prisons? Well, if you have the transfers to treat the thugs well, let them pay for their medicine, too. The independent drunkard is not going to pay for the rest of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. These budgets of Rufián and Bildu do not pay them Churches, we will pay them all Spanish with tax sablazo; all. Mr Marlaska, the last thing that must be lost is not hope, it is dignity, which you have already lost and which you do not recover with these budgets today. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u63	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, good afternoon. First and foremost, thanks to the State Security Forces and Corpses, our prison officials and the rest of the civil servants dependent on the Interior, who have worked tirelessly and continue to do so in the fight against COVID. My deepest condolences to all the Spanish families who have lost a member of them in the terrible conditions that have done so. While we are arguing in this Chamber, while we are throwing the stuff at our heads, Spanish people are still dying, we should keep that in mind. Minister, I also remind you that the comrades who died during the fight against COVID have done so in service. I hope that this is the case with the administrative resolutions. Nobody escapes since the government has chosen to agree on vital budgets for Spain with those who want to destroy it. I am not going to be the first or last one to say this, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, have put Bildu into Moncloa, the heirs of ETA, Esquerra, who led a coup d'état in our democracy, and anyone who wants to end our country. What's your excuse? Those blue armchairs? Is it worth it? Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, if I am absolutely sincere to you, I, doing an exercise of deep empathy and sharing your ideology, which is not the case, could not press the green button, the truth is that I could not, but perhaps I am talking about something that you do not know, of principles and of having a job outside. We know that many of you have neither the one nor the other and those who have it swallow. The partial amendments that we have tabled in the field of the Interior have, and are intended to, in a coherent and unmistakeable way, to improve the working conditions of both the State Security Forces and the prison officials, and that this results in the magnificent public service that they both carry out. But the Government decided to vote not for everything, the Government and the parties that support it. We're seeing it in the fight against COVID. Our State Security Forces and Corpses, our prison officials, private security, local police, etc., along with other collectives such as the health care workers, are literally leaving their lives, and all this despite the constant contempt of the Government, first, not including them as personnel at high risk of infection by the COVID and, then, by the Vice President Churches, who said that the State Security Forces and Corpses and the Army were not fundamental in the fight against the coronavirus. Mr. Iglesias is indispensable. The working conditions of the members of the State Security Forces and Corps are sometimes terrible, and I know very well what I am talking about, so that we propose improvements that, in addition to fair ones, are urgent and necessary. First of all, and first of all, I want to make it clear that the salary equalization of the State Security Forces and the autonomous police has not occurred, you say what you say. There are still very important pay and rights differences between civilian guards, national police and autonomous police. I have already announced to you that in the future we will remain committed, as we have always been, to this just cause. We have tabled an amendment to raise the replenishment rate of the State Security Forces to 120 per cent, which is essential for adapting the National Police and the Civil Guard to the needs we currently have, and also due to long years of low calls, which has led to a decline in the numbers and an ageing of them. The Government voted no. We have tabled another amendment to increase the material and human resources in the Gibraltar Field in the face of the scourge of drug trafficking, which is destroying the area and putting the population and its agents at serious risk for their safety. And, Minister, we have also put forward an initiative in the Commission to see the Gibraltar Field as a special singularity, and it will soon have it on the table. In addition, we will support all the amendments that seek to improve the employment situation and, above all, the infrastructure of the State Security Forces and Bodies. And no, gentlemen of Esquerra, we are not going to support the transfer of the National Police Headquarters of Via Laietana, which is so annoying to you. Socialists, are you going to allow this humiliation? As for prison officials, we all know their precarious situation. The aim of the battery of amendments we have tabled is to dignify a profession that has been abandoned by successive governments in the country. Gentlemen of Podemos, not so long ago you dressed up with the shirts they gave you and defended your just demands. Today they prefer to defend the prisoners. You have passed from village to caste at the speed of light. We also keep alive the amendment on the retributive increase in the specific complement of prison officials. We are talking about a three-pronged increase, the first of which would be in 2021, a linear increase of 200 euros gross, which would be an ostensible improvement in their precarious wages. We have calculated the investment that would entail and would be around 60 million euros; come on, about twenty advisers. We also propose, in another amendment, a linear increase in the salaries of prison staff of 200 euros, which amounts to some 5 million euros. And in another respect, we have tabled an amendment to improve the means of the offices of Asylum and Refugee, since Spain remains one of the main recipients. The amendments we have tabled, in short, are perfectly consumable and also correct historically unfair situations. I cannot understand, as the thousands of public workers do not understand, that they expected something more from you - many of them have gone out on the street - that you have voted not at all as a rule and that you have given yourselves to the enemies of the country so easily. Minister, you know that these budgets do not correct these inequities; on the contrary, they aggravate the unjust situations of the State Security Forces and the prison officials, and you know it, even if you do not say so. In addition, there is a terrible paralysis in infrastructure. Many dependencies fall to pieces - I invite you to visit them - and with these accounts they will not fix them. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am also addressing Mr de VOX today as I was unable to do so in the Commission - the commitment of the collectives to their causes is especially demonstrated by defending them in the only law that can make them come true, the Law on General Budgets of the State. Vote for what they say they're defending; they're still on time. Citizens' amendments concerning prison officials and the State Security Forces and Corpses are alive. I conclude by telling the Socialist Group that the usury mortgage you have signed with separatism will be paid by all Spaniards - also our children - and that you will not be paid free of charge either. History will judge them by their pacts with the country's enemies in the midst of the pandemic. Our conscience is very calm; I don't know what will happen to yours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u64	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u65	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me to begin this speech by expressing on behalf of my group our condolences to the agents of the State Security Forces and Corps who have died in the context of the pandemic in the exercise of their public service. Now, on the budgetary front, one of the issues with which we are most satisfied is the increase in the budget in Chapter 1, which deals precisely with staff. This budget increase will cover the salary increase of the State Security Forces and Bodies. In United Podemos-En Comú Podemos we have been supporting this issue, as well as another series of measures to improve the employment situation, finally complying with the third tranche, which means an increase of 20% over the 2017 budget, with a total amount of 807 million euros. On the other hand, the more than €7 billion increase in Chapter 1 makes it possible to cover not only the rise in wages, but also to increase the replacement rate by 115 %, with the offer of public employment in the Police, Civil Guard, Traffic, Prison Institutions and other general officials. However, the increase in this ministry will not only be on staff, but there will also be an increase in investment, material and infrastructure. In this regard, we are particularly interested in protecting the agents of the State Security Forces and Bodies. At present it is not only the usual protection equipment, but also the PPE that protects them from the pandemic. I would like to stress the need for every police officer and the Civil Guard to have a bulletproof vest, paying particular attention to the design of vests for women. I would also like to express here our concern, as we have already done on many occasions, about the suicides that take place in the State Security Forces and Bodies. In Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos for new investments in the prevention of these suicides, providing the necessary diagnostic studies to prevent this very serious problem. I would also like to highlight our concern about the situation of the Asylum and Refugee Office, which has not seen its staff increase or update its computer system for years, which has had an impact on major shortcomings. The Ministry of the Interior this year accelerated the cases accumulated since 2018, making a huge effort also during the crisis of the COVID19. In this regard, at the Podemos-En Comú Podemos, we would like to see an increase in staff, as well as a plan for rapid digital transformation in terms of the Asylum and Refugee Office. We are pleased to know that there will be new DNI offices, but we would also like to move here the need to strengthen the Aliens Office, both because of the lack of staff and the need for digital transformation. We know that the situation is unsustainable and is causing many people to find themselves in an irregular situation due to the difficulties in obtaining an appointment, a situation which has been aggravated by the blockade during the months of the state of alarm. With regard to penitentiary institutions, we welcome the 3,000 new staff positions that have been expanded in these budgets, which will undoubtedly have an impact on both the quality of treatment of prisoners and the employment situation of staff already working in prisons. On the other hand, we welcome the great interest in digitizing prison management to make it a more agile, modern and humanitarian administration. Finally, I would like to point out that more than 130 programmes have been reported to support more than 700 projects other than more than 40 main entities targeted at the prison population admitted to prisons, open-ended inmates and inmates, and those sentenced to alternative prison sentences and measures, implying that the third sector entities will receive approximately EUR 5 250 000 from this budget year, i.e. 24% more than they received in 2019 or 26% more than they received in 2018. I would simply like to end by saying that these are not only extraordinary budgets for extraordinary times, but also budgets that will add to Spain's change and hope and that will reduce Spain's hatred, Spain's noise and Spain's chaos. Thank you, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u66	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, our parliamentary group is aware that you have been living in hiding and without stepping on the street for months, but after carefully analysing section 16, Ministry of the Interior, of these budgets, I have to ask you a question. Aren't you aware of the war that the Spanish people are waging right now? Are you not aware that we are facing a pandemic, that we are going for the second assault and a third is announced, and that it is our agents who are in the front line of fire? Because it has presented budgets that are completely behind the reality that we are suffering in Spain, a reality that you are not suffering, that of course. Let's go to the detail of section 16 to justify what I'm saying. They present a consolidated expenditure budget that is hardly an increase of 3.9 over the previous ones, an increase of just over 300 million euros, of which 200 are for staff costs. If we take into account that the average increase in the number of ministries and constitutional bodies is 41%, 129% in the case of Mrs Montero's Ministry of Equality, we can get an idea of the relative importance that the Ministry of the Interior and its policies have for this Social-Communist Government. As I said, a little more than EUR 200 million of this increase is for staff costs, for the increase in their salaries, minister, and for the high-ranking officials and advisers, who have increased from the previous years to thirty-three. It was up to me to choose: well-being for politicians or well-being for Spaniards. And his government has made it very clear: 777 advisors to the finger, the biggest political spending in the history of Spanish democracy, while sending the Spaniards to the queues of hunger and illegal immigrants to the queues of Banco Santander to collect their monthly check. [[Applauds]] The budgets of this section 16 completely turn their backs on the pandemic, because you, minister, knew, as I did, since May for police reports that autumn was going to be hot in mobilizations, as we are seeing, because the Spaniards are being forced to go out on the street to defend their lives, to defend themselves from hunger, to defend their businesses, to defend their families. And just as it's happening in countries around us, we're seeing that radicals from the extreme left and anti-system are doing what they always do, which is blowing up the streets. And in the face of that, our agents are on the front line of defense. But what measures do their budgets envisage to deal with this situation? In anti-disturbing materials, replacement investments are decreasing, both for our National Police officers and for the Civil Guard. For our Civil Guard they include an investment in anti-disturbing material of 100,000 euros by 2021, minister, compared to 400 000 of 2020. Its inept director general of the Civil Guard charges more in a year than all the anti-disturbing material they plan to invest in 2021. [[Applauds]] With regard to our prison officials, minister, the investment in coercive material in 2020 was EUR 500 000 and by 2021 it is EUR 350 000, which is also decreasing. This is about material. But what about the troops? Let's go to program 132.A, citizen security. The number of personnel seconded to the public security area by 2021 is decreasing, as is the number of personnel seconded to the fight against corruption in the TJ unit. By the way, speaking of the TJ, Minister, yesterday we knew that those internal investigations that you promoted to investigate those leaks for the 8M cause were unsuccessful. So it turns out that you falsely accused Colonel Pérez de los Cobos of a crime in this House. You lied and attacked your honorability. But you, minister, are the one who leaks; you're the one who leaked information to a media outlet by attacking one of mine, a partner, Ignacio Gil Lazarus. I thought you weren't going to find out, Minister. I say to you here, from this Chamber, that if you attack one of my own, you attack the 52 of Vox and, with us, four million Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Mr Vice-President, it is an honour, as Secretary-General, for you to be an essential part of our parliamentary group. Similarly, this Government, which says of itself that it is the most progressive and the most feminist, decreases the number of troops destined to combat gender-based violence by more than 200. This is the futility of their budgets, the budgets of ruin. With a migratory invasion like the one we are suffering - all my support, especially to the Canary Islands - what you do is simply contemplate a subsidy of 30 million euros for Morocco. So far, Minister, the reasons for your futility - your staff and your accounts - and our consequent rejection, because even in order to negotiate within your government the Community funds, those more than EUR 26 billion that they provide for in their budgets, does so badly. Because, listen, I already know that you are not Mr Ábalos, but of the EUR 4 billion that goes to your department - that of Mr Ábalos - to the exclusively EUR 6 million that you have obtained Interior... This gives us an idea of the futility you represent for Mr Sánchez. We are presenting an amendment to the whole of these budgets because they are the budgets of ruin, because they lie, because they lead us to an absolute bankruptcy, including the shelter of pensions; it is a non-routine to the whole and to the articulated, because the partial amendments do not allow us to reduce the expenditure but only to change the items of place, but to become accomplices, accomplices of the ruin of Spain. Madam spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez, dear Ana, it will not be today when I answer you, it will be Thursday, because today I do not want to lose a second of the attention that the Spaniards deserve from me, which is to this Social Communist government and this unworthy Minister of the Interior. [[Applauds]] We did not want to be accomplices to the ruin of Spain that carry these budgets, but not to your immorality, Minister, nor to your indecency - your staff and that of your Government - because what you have done is to accept that the seal of ETA is the seal that closes these General Budgets of the State. A country project cannot be agreed with those who do not believe in the country as a project. Felipe González. From here I say to him: Thank you, we do recognize him. [[Applauds]] Minister, you will pass to history in just eleven months of parliamentary office as Minister of the Interior, because you are the Prime Minister of the Interior who has applauded ETA in this Chamber; you are the Prime Minister of the Interior who has recognized ETA as a democratic interlocutor; you are the Prime Minister of the Interior who has publicly lamented the suicide of a stage, of a murderer; you are the Prime Minister of the Interior who has allowed ETA's bloody action to have served you to achieve your political objectives, imprisoned for budgets, and you are the mason of this socialist-style executive in charge of execution, because these budgets come forward thanks to the 175 prison benefits that have been granted to the 229, which were serving sentences in 2018; today it is 197. [[Rumors]] Minister, you are a traitor to memory, to dignity, to justice, to your toned comrades, and so you will pray your political epitaph. [[protests]] [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u68	Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u69	Thank you very much, President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that it seems that today the brotherhood of the saint has passed through here, because the truth is that work, work, some have worked rather little; others have presented a set of infumable amendments, especially for a party that is said to be government; others have presented a set of unspeakable amendments, such as those that were going to break the blocks of the right. [[laughs]] [[applause]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, today we have seen some issues here and some really worrying speeches. I have been particularly concerned by two who have tried to sit in the chair and give lessons to my party, the Socialist Party, on how to negotiate a budget or what the anti-terrorist prison policy means. And, look, I thank the UPN gentlemen for giving us a master class, because it was you who laid the foundations of the negotiation with Herri Batasuna at the worst terrorist moment in our country. [[Protests]] Yes, yes, you, Mr. Adanero; you. [[Applauds]] And, truth be told, that the People's Party is also coming to teach us lessons about approaching prisoners, man, I think you should make them look a little bit, with more than 400 prisoners approaching in Aznar's time. Of course, as a Member of the People's Party said yesterday, the Socialist Party has probably forgotten a year in its history and we have 140 more. You constantly forget, every day, what you say and what you do, every day, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mrs. Vázquez Blanco makes negative signs]] In this rapprochement of prisoners, of the more than 450 prisoners, you approached a prisoner named Iñaki Bilbao, in 1997, from the Canary Islands to Ocaña; in 1999, this person, having served seventeen of his thirty years in prison, went out on the street and in 2002 murdered my party partner Juan Priede. Ladies and gentlemen, do not give us lessons from rapprochement or prison policy. We're not going to consent to that one more time. [[Applauds]] I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that today we have even talked about budgets; well, today we have come to talk about budgets. You have mixed up a multitude of issues and, as I was telling you, gentlemen of the People's Party, you tend to forget in a very quick way, don't you? Look at what has happened in a month with the amendments you have tabled to the internal budget. On 4 November, the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, in the Committee on the Interior - in addition, by copying VOX's speech casually - places us and them, that is, the Spaniards and the rest. Well, what you said today is the same as what you said today, that in the area of cooperation we have to adapt the budget lines a little bit so that not all the money goes to Cooperation. On 17 November, you presented your amendments, and of sixty-nine amendments, sixty represent cuts in the budget for development cooperation and police cooperation of the Ministry of the Interior, and cut that line by 64%. On 21 November Mr Pablo Casado goes to the Canary Islands and says: the People's Party is proposing to the government that there must be more serious and more resourced cooperation. Man, you'll tell me, with a 64% decrease in cooperation, how are we going to do that! [[Applauds]] We are talking about budgets that, as the Minister said, recover security as a public good because they are budgets that are born in a context of deep economic crisis, deep social crisis, a crisis that this progressive government has done has been making it a possibility for the public sector, to return to the public in education, health and also in security, which you did not do in 2008. You cut 12,000 troops, you dropped barracks, police stations, CIE and all units of the Ministry of the Interior. You have left thousands of vehicles for scrapping, you have not executed your budgets in the matter of the Interior, and today you come to teach us socialists how to make a budget, - you and your members of the Navarro People's Union -. You'll tell me what route all this has to go. The Minister of the Interior said that in Chapter 6 it had been invested; I will only give you a figure: EUR 272 million this year alone, budgeted in Chapter 6, of real investments, but in addition to the fact that 16 000 new vests have been bought, it is also that 600 new vehicles are going to be bought, it is that in addition there is an increase of 130% in the budget allocated to the protection of our agents, it is that moreover this government - this - has opened a way of dialogue with the majority unions of penal institutions to draw up a new legal text. This is a government that dialogues and this is not a government that had all the prison unions at the door of the General Secretariat protesting precisely because they did not let them protest, because every time there was a protest you opened a file for them. [[Applauds]] I conclude now, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that there is a firm commitment from the Ministry of the Interior to all its officials, to all: police, civilian guards, personnel dedicated to the Office of Asylum and Refugee, personnel dedicated to the Office of Victim Care, personnel dedicated to Prison Institutions, absolutely with all. And it is also with everyone the commitment of the Ministry of the Interior, with all the citizens of this country, because sometimes in this Chamber what is lacking is to talk about security, but about security aimed at the exercise of freedom on equal rights and conditions for all citizens. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u70	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 17, Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda We move on to the debate in section 17, Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u71	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to present this draft budget of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda for 2021. As you all know, the preparation of the General Budgets of the State and, also, their implementation during the next financial year are framed in an exceptional context, often repeated in this House, as a result of the crisis caused by COVID-19. This crisis is particularly intense in certain essential sectors, such as transport, which is part of the Ministry's competence. With these budgets, the Government wants to promote the economic recovery of our country by alleviating the negative effects of the pandemic and, at the same time, to face the challenge of advancing the establishment of a new growth model based on strengthening the welfare state, the commitment to the knowledge economy, digital transformation and the ecological transition. Since the beginning of this legislature, in the ministry we are working to give a new approach to our lines of action which, as it cannot be otherwise, has its reflection on the budgets that we present to you today. This new approach has two key lines: the reorientation of housing policy to reach those most in need and to improve the sustainability and quality of life in our cities, and the reorientation of mobility policy to make it more inclusive, secure, sustainable and digital. To this end, in the pursuit of these objectives, the current budget proposal, without abandoning the optimization and continuous improvement of our infrastructure network, focuses on investment in mobility and housing. We place the citizen at the centre of our decisions and give a transcendental role to the sustainability and digitization of cities and municipalities that aspire to be more and more efficient. It is precisely these principles that are reflected in the department's two major strategic documents for the next decade: the Safe, Sustainable and Connected Mobility Strategy 2030 and the Spanish Urban Agenda. [[The lady]] On the basis of these premises, I then go on to detail some specific data on the ministry's budget for 2021. The consolidated budget of the Ministry group for 2021 of Chapters 4, 6, 7 and 8 and investments of the entities amounts to 16,664 million euros, an increase of 53 % compared to the currently existing extended budgets. These figures allow us to present the most ambitious budgets of the last decade, budgets with which the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda wants to contribute in a remarkable way to the economic recovery of the country by increasing the investment and the impulse to the transformation of the Spanish economy from an environmental, social and productivity point of view. A very large part of the resources incorporated into these budgets - almost EUR 5 billion - come from the European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. These European resources will be used to finance the projects of two of the key levers of this mechanism: the so-called resilient infrastructures and ecosystems and the urban and rural agenda for territorial cohesion. We estimate that with these budget increases we are going to help our country's GDP increase next year by EUR 8780 million and create 112 200 new jobs, which together represents a percentage contribution to GDP of 0.8 points. The will of the ministry is that these should not be an annual budget anymore, but should be the beginning of a real transformation of the economic and social reality of our country. To this end, as I have pointed out, we are promoting ten-year strategies based on the reorientation of housing and mobility policies, in which the European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism are a key starting point. With regard to housing policies and the urban agenda, the importance we attach to them is evident in the budgetary effort they concentrate, with an increase of 373 % over the current budget. Thus, we allocate to housing and urban agenda 2250 million euros, an increase of 1775 million, figures that offer us the largest budget in history in this area. Our priorities will be: on the one hand, to ensure access to housing by increasing the supply of affordable and social rental housing, rental subsidies and investment in rehabilitation as a key element for economic recovery; and on the other hand, the urban and rural agenda in order to promote urban regeneration and renewal to make our cities more efficient, to order the territory by making rational use of the land and to promote the urban economy of proximity. In implementation of these priorities, the key budget items will be allocated to rehabilitation programmes, which have a total of EUR 1661 million, and of this amount, EUR 1550 million will be allocated to economic and social recovery in residential, neighbourhood and housing environments. The aim is to promote rehabilitation as a key element in the reactivation of the construction sector and in the real estate sector and in compliance with European and national energy, climate and digitisation commitments. This is a field of enormous potential given the conditions of antiquity and conservation of the building park, also for its ability to create jobs and improve the quality of life of its inhabitants. A further 111 million will be devoted to the sustainable and digital rehabilitation of public buildings and to architectural rehabilitation. On the other hand, the social housing policy will have 569 million and will have among its most outstanding items the State Housing Plan with 354 million euros, in accordance with the signed with each of the autonomous communities. In this area we want to give the plan a greater social character by enhancing the change of model in housing policy, and to this end we will focus our efforts on facilitating access to housing for those with fewer resources, creating a public housing park for rent and promoting urban rehabilitation and regeneration, with a particular impact on improving energy efficiency and flexibility. We will also promote the Housing Plan with the Affordable Housing Plan and other housing actions, with an additional 215 million. With regard to transport and infrastructure measures, I detail the main items. With regard to transport, allow me to repeat my earlier reference to the reorientation of the Ministry's policies in this area in order to refer to programmes to support the sustainability and digitisation of transport. Its recipients will be companies as well as other public administrations and will have a total of EUR 1 billion. This is a fundamental change in transport policy, which will allow us to allocate EUR 240 million in the first place to support the digitisation and sustainability of the logistics chain, to promote the implementation of intelligent transport systems, digitisation in freight transport companies, alternative fuel charging points, the renewal of the fleets of trucks and railway equipment or the railway compartments and secure car parks for trucks. Secondly, EUR 345 million for the design and implementation of low-emission areas in urban and metropolitan environments for projects such as bicycle lanes, pedestrian routes, dissuasive parking lots on the outskirts of cities or measures to prioritize collective transport. Thirdly, 410 million for the sustainable and digital transformation of urban and metropolitan transport, which will enable projects to be undertaken to transform public transport fleets powered by alternative fuels. Together with these new actions, we must not forget the maintenance of the instruments which have traditionally formed the fundamental part of transport policy. The financing of public service, rail, air and maritime obligations is planned to ensure the viability of these services and will have a budget of more than EUR 1225 million in 2021. Similarly, air and sea ticket bonuses for residents of non- peninsular territories will have a credit of nearly EUR 800 million in 2021 to finance 75% of the price of air and boat tickets. In this way, we guarantee the right of these citizens to enjoy the tickets by paying only 25% of their fare, applied both on trips with the peninsula and on trips between islands. For its part, subsidies to large families in rail, air and maritime transport will have a budget of just over 24 million, intended to finance the discounts that these families benefit from. In addition, subsidies for the transport of goods with the extra-penisular territories will have a budget of more than EUR 77 million, which will minimise the impact and disadvantage of the geographical position of the non-penisular territories with respect to the transport of goods. Finally, I would like to refer to subsidies for land transport. In this area, as a novelty, the nominative subsidies to consortia and metropolitan entities previously included in the budget of the Ministry of Finance are incorporated into the Ministry's budget this year. These are grants to the Madrid Regional Transport Consortium, to the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport Authority, to the Valencia Metropolitan Transport Authority and to the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, which are endowed with a total of about 322 million euros. Alongside them, the budget contains another line of grants under competitive conditions, with a credit of EUR 51 million, intended to finance the provision of the urban collective transport service by the municipalities, logically excluding the municipalities affected by the above mentioned nominative subsidies. I would not like to forget in this chapter the slightly more than 106 million euros destined to meet the reductions of tolls on state highways, maintaining those currently in force and promoting the implementation of further reductions with the aim of enhancing their use, especially for heavy vehicles. On the other hand, by making a brief review of the specific modes of transport, it is the railway that leads the increase in investments with an increase of 36,4 % over the current budget. This increase, amounting to EUR 1567 million, is mainly for the modernisation of the network in general and the reduction of travel times. Among the most notable initiatives in this area are Cercanías 2025, which aims to achieve attractive and reliable public transport as a backbone of urban mobility and which will have a budget of 1.5 million, and the initiatives relating to travellers and freight 2030, which will have a total budget of 4370 million euros. They will be used for trans-European transport networks, highlighting the Atlantic and Mediterranean corridors and the TEN-T network as a whole, which are essential for our national transport system, and for intermodality and logistics, as the promotion of intermodality and the modernisation of distribution nodes are decisive factors in the decarbonisation process. For its part, investment in road maintenance and conservation grows by 14.8%, with an increase of 302 million euros to reach 1240 million, allowing to reverse the conservation deficit of recent years and recovering levels prior to 2011. As far as the maritime mode is concerned, investment growth is 27% and has as its priority objectives the improvement of land access and the promotion of intermodality of the port network, as well as the promotion of alternative technologies and energies, all of which include investment in the improvement of our maritime rescue and pollution control system. In the air mode the investment is increased by 41% and will be used to maintain the operation, safety and quality of our airports and to modernise the air navigation systems. Before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to stress some of the most important aspects of the budgets that I am presenting to you today. It is, as I said at the beginning, the most ambitious budgets of the last ten years, with an increase of 53%, almost 6 billion more, which will contribute to the economic recovery of our country. We have almost EUR 5 billion from the European Union Recovery and Resilience Mechanism for urban rehabilitation and regeneration, sustainable mobility, digitisation, intermodality and logistics. They are budgets that will allocate 2250 million to housing and urban agenda - 373 % growth -, to increase the supply of social housing, to facilitate access to housing, rehabilitation, renovation and regeneration as a key piece also for economic recovery. For the first time, in addition to investing in infrastructure we invest in the drive to sustainable and digital transport with aid programmes of around EUR 1 billion, of which six hundred million will go directly to private transport companies. The rail sector is leading the increase in investments by 36.4%, which will be used as a priority to modernise the network in general and to reduce travel times. Finally, road investment is also increasing by prioritizing conservation with appropriations increasing by 58 %. In short, budgets that, focused on citizens and with a medium and long-term vision, will drive the transformations and priorities that Spain needs to overcome the consequences of the pandemic that we are going through and to do so with a strengthened welfare state. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to those political formations which, during the course of the draft law, have worked on their amendments, made proposals and even - and I am most pleased about this - have expressed their willingness to support these General State Budgets for the next 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, good morning to you too. I must say, first of all, that the Joint Group's interventions in this type of plenary are complex and, therefore, it must be known that in the two or three speeches that I will have during these days - today and tomorrow - I will degregate all the positions of New Canarias and will not refer exclusively to the section that is being debated - excuse me, Minister - because we simply do not have the material time to do so. Secondly, in view of the uniqueness of the Joint Group, I have to defend the living amendments of all its constituent forces to that effect. We have already said in the first debate on the draft General Budgets of the State that New Canarias considered these expansionary budgets, progressive budgets, countercyclical budgets and, consequently, there was a fundamental coincidence with the vision that New Canarias has of how to respond in general and even more in a crisis situation like the one we are experiencing. Public services are stimulated, the economy is dynamic, it is clear that the social dimension is enormous in these budgets and there are green policies, digitisation policies; that is, we believe that these budgets do what needs to be done. We know that with these general decisions there is a favourable impact for the Canary Islands, which is what one, modestly, represents. It is clear that minimum vital income impacts in the Canary Islands, that anti-COVID funds impact in the Canary Islands and that ERTE and aid to self-employed people impact in the Canary Islands. We therefore reject the amendments as a whole and express our willingness, through amendments, to try to refine these budgets in relation to the Canary Islands. We have in fact negotiated, primarily with the Socialist Party, budgets at different stages because budgets are the result of a process. We had an investment agreement signed and we had regular contacts, some of them with you, Minister. We believe that this has helped this draft budget to recognize as never before unique and absolutely essential issues for the Canary Islands, which are basically linked to the fulfilment of our responsibilities, our economic and fiscal regime, not in its entirety, but in a substantial way. That is why we have to say that it is essential that the need to separate the resources of the Economic and Fiscal System from the system of autonomous financing has been recognized. This was a monstrous damage that was done to the Canary community that, fortunately, is confirmed. It is fulfilled for the third time in the recent Spanish democratic history that the Canary Islands is, as its REF says, at least in the average investment of the whole State, 304 euros per inhabitant and year against 277 euros. The 75% bonus for passenger transport, which you know perfectly well what it represents for the Canary Islands, is being fulfilled - you have just made it clear - I do not need to explain it to you; 100% in freight transport, I do not know what this means for the Canary producers, who, if they do not have it, simply cannot compete. The €42 million recovered in its day for the Comprehensive Employment Plan of the Canary Islands; the €8.5 million for water supply; the €20 million for tourism infrastructure, all this was in the REF and all this we are used to showing up and disappearing. On this occasion that is there, including the 200 million euros of the Canary Islands-State road agreement that were committed by the year 2021. Then there are other games that are not exclusive to REF and that are relevant. The Institute of Astrophysics of the Canary Islands is a pioneering and leading institution that we have in the archipelago and that is well defended with 10 million euros; measures for transport and transport operators; policies of compensation for marine companies for their obligation of public service; in short, an initial level of high compliance with the singularities of the Canary Islands. Now, that's right, this is fine, but we have made a set of amendments because we believe that we must comply in full with the fact that we approve here among almost all in 2018, the new Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, which is the first time that it is subject to a procedure of general budgets of the State like this one. For this reason, we are presenting a set of amendments that are basically to comply with the entire REF because it seemed to us to be an essential issue and, secondly, a set of issues because we need to address strategic areas and issues that are urgent and of serious concern to Canary society, which is also raised in the amendments we have made. We already know that it is not possible to win for ten to zero or to achieve 100% of the objectives, that does not fit either the political logic or the logic in life, but it is true that it was irrefutable to contemplate the whole of the precepts of the Economic and Fiscal Regime, because bad is the one that one does not defend when he is himself. And, in addition, we propose that we continue to work on issues that are relevant to Canarian society. With regard to the proposed amendments, we have managed to adopt in the Commission a vital amendment, which was that of aid and resources to combat poverty in the Canary Islands. You don't have to explain here the situation we're going through. It is 30 million euros that have made us hope to go the right way. I was going to tell you now the rest of the compromise amendments, but if you don't mind, I will continue to tell you about them in the next speech. Don't miss it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u75	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, good afternoon. As I said yesterday on one of the many occasions when I came up to this rostrum, on budgetary matters we have to give the reason to your partner in the Executive, Mrs Montero, Minister of Finance, and it is what is important in budgetary matters. We have understood this in my parliamentary group and have moved that to the amendments that we have tabled to this section; those measures, which you have completely rejected by applying the roll, have been an exercise of responsibility that neither the Government nor part of the opposition seem to have understood. And, truly, I thank you for the words that have taken place in your statement of appreciation in that regard to the groups that have practiced that responsibility and worked. Listening to him I have to tell him that he has a budget left in his precious ministry; niquelao. They are ambitious, yes, and it is noted that the paper endures everything. In this section there are more than 1300 amendments with all the possible infrastructures that we can imagine and with budgetary allocations that in many cases will not even be used to start the work. Your Government, Mr Ábalos, has followed an entirely political logic and not of resource efficiency and has included all the imaginable projects, with a endowment that barely gives to start work, rather than doing a prioritization and evaluation exercise as we have always demanded of you in Citizens. Even with this injection of EUR 5 billion from the European funds, from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, we will not be able to undertake all the actions in the field of transport, mobility and housing that this country needs, hence the need for evaluation. However, you, the Government, have decided to content everyone now to disappoint many later because, let us be clear, minister, the budget of this ministry will hardly be able to be implemented in its entirety. That is why we have made two far more pragmatic proposals from my group. These amendments would not only have improved implementation, but would have made it possible to do so with a more efficient allocation of resources and, of course, you voted not. We proposed, on the one hand, the reform of the Law on General State Intervention, in which we urged that, in a transitional manner and with the aim of expediting the applicable deadlines and ensuring the execution of public contracts for works, services or acquisitions financed from European funds, the prior intervention obligation of checking and accreditation of budgetary appropriations be eliminated. Such oversight would, in any event, be transferred to the later stage of the award process. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, minister, your party, voted no and do not tell me that you have already done so in that last royal decree of the Council of Ministers, which talks about the reform of the public administration because it has not yet been approved and, moreover, that is not what we were asking in those amendments. On the other hand, the other pragmatic way of carrying out the budget of this ministry, we proposed to them a reform that we believe is fundamental to the mobilization of resources by the private sector of our country and is the law of deindexation to improve the attractiveness of public-private collaboration. At this point I would like to point out that the left always looks at this proposal with a bad eye because they believe that it involves the enrichment of private companies at the expense of citizens and, in fact, when there is no public-private collaboration, what happens is that the public sector assumes all the risks in the execution and maintenance of the infrastructure. It is true that Spain has not had good experience with these contractual formulas, but we can learn from the mistakes and balance the assumption of risks and remuneration so that they are fair. Because you, Minister, know well, like me, that the public sector will not be able to undertake the outstanding projects in this country and try to do so only through debt will be a slab that we will leave our children and will have difficulty paying for the next generations. As was foreseeable, to this amendment of the Deindexation Act your party has also voted no. Finally, by focusing on the amendments under specific headings, we are presenting you with major proposals which we consider to be of high priority for the modernisation that you were talking about, for the economic revival that you were talking about and for the territorial cohesion that you were talking about. They are great proposals such as the financing of the Barcelona metro line 9, the installation of the bus-VAO rail on the Burgos motorway, the extension of the La Concepción reservoir in the province of Malaga, actions along the Trans-European Transport Network to improve its implementation throughout the territory, the construction of the railway link in the Port exterior of Langosteira in A Coruña or the passing tunnel of Valencia to advance in the Mediterranean corridor. You know what they voted for, don't you? They didn't vote. Your party has voted no to one of your electoral promises in our city and you, like me, know that Valencia's passing tunnel is necessary, a priority work to finish the Mediterranean corridor and boost our country's economy. Have you seen, Minister, what is it like? It is the one that leads us to vote not on these items and these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in the context of expansionary budgets, your ministry is growing at least above 50%. It is this growth that allows increases in territorialized investments in several communities, especially in the Mediterranean, between 45 and 83 %, and we agree. The problem is that, on the contrary, investment in Galicia falls by 11%, which is 104 million euros less than in Montoro's 2018 budgets, which his party rightly described as a slap of the PP to all Galicians. Its main argument is that the higher budgets of previous years corresponded to the investments of the AVE, which is already completed. Well, that's not true either. Among the projects included in these budgets is the Ourense variant, valued at more than EUR 600 million, and only EUR 29 million, which indicates that they do not have much interest in implementing it, apart from the fact that our priority is the modernisation and expansion of the internal networks. And there is the problem: zero euros for the connection with the external port of A Coruña, zero for the line A Coruña-Lugo or for the line of FEVE between Ferrol and Ribadeo - by the way, when the Minister of Finance presented the budgets intended to sell us a part of the line of FEVE in Asturias as if it were in Galicia - ridiculous amounts for the line A Coruña-Ferrol or for the exit south of Vigo and insufficient for the Atlantic corridor of goods. There is no justification for Galicia's flagrant discrimination, although its confession, made last day 11 in Castellón, that its priority is the Mediterranean corridor because there is already the basis, no need to invent, gives us the clue about the different treatment we see in these budgets. I mean, like, unlike in the Mediterranean, there were no previous investments in Galicia, nor are they going to do them now. Curious line of argument to justify the unjustifiable. Correct, accept the amendments of the BNG and put an end to this discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u78	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Enemies of Spain, traitors, proletarians, communists, Spain breaks, the world ends. This does not look like a budget discussion at all. In seven years, seven budgets approved Mariano Rajoy and I never heard these disqualifications. Never. [[Rumors]] They feel awfully bad about being in the opposition. Make him look at it. We will vote in favour of these budgets and we are convinced; we are not entirely satisfied, but we are convinced. There's been some progress. More than 450 million investments in Valencian territory, unlike their budgets that did break Spain. [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] More than 300 million in the Mediterranean corridor, 38 million in metropolitan transport and the two amendments that have accepted us, one of 65 million from the Alicante and Elx connection with the airport of El Altet and another of 3 million for the line Xàtiva-Ontinyent-Alcoi. Obviously, much remains to be done, like Valencia's passing tunnel. I remember that Mr Toni Cantó de Ciudadanos voted against our amendment just two years ago, but today they are the strongest defenders of the tunnel. We were before and now, not now yes and before no. There's a bet decided by closeness. Of the nearly 1.5 billion investment in 20172025, only 10 % has been invested. I'm finishing up. The train from the coast. There has to be an investment already decided on the coast train. I ended up saying that there is an amendment from More Country-Equo, which I share, which is that fund for metropolitan public transport. There has to be a law where that money is distributed...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumors]] I'm asking for silence, please. Finally, I have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u81	Thank you very much, President. Mr Minister, in the three minutes of this section I just want to say a few things. Minister, we're going to have budgets. You are going to have budgets, budgets that have been agreed with the Democratic Party. I would like to thank you for the sensitivity of the compromise of some of our amendments and for the willingness that the financial resources in Catalonia, ten years after the transfer was agreed, can already be managed by the Generalitat. It is a great step and, of course, we have to acknowledge and thank it; now it only needs to materialize as we have agreed. There are also amendments that are important to us, such as making the AVE station at Gerona Airport viable, which will make it possible for the fourth runway at Barcelona Airport in the future. This is a big breakthrough. The Bellissens station in the demarcation that I represent is also. Therefore, these and other amendments in the rail sector and also in the road sector, although aware that the budget here is perhaps more adjusted, will enable the Democratic Party to approve these budgets for the transactions we have made and for the considerations I have already explained in other sections and in other interventions. In any case, Minister, as you know, we now have a challenge. We have, but mainly they have a challenge, the government has a challenge. These will already be government budgets, not inherited budgets. They will be budgets that can be implemented throughout the budget year and will not catch them in the middle of the year. Therefore, it must be budgets that have a high degree of implementation, a presentable degree of implementation, a degree of implementation with which you and your Government can deny in Catalonia to those who, so far, rightly, we have denounced that the degree of implementation of the budgets and the degree of implementation of the budget of Fomento - now the budget of Transports - was low in relation to the average of the whole Spanish State. I am sure it will, and it will be the best guarantee that, at least the Democratic Party, will be able to agree on budgets in the future. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Lorite Lorite has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Mr. Baldoví, you're right. The People's Parliamentary Group feels bad about the opposition. Do you know why? Because Spain feels bad that the People's Party is in opposition. [[Applauds]] The House is dealing with a budget project based on lies, indecent and triler-like pacts, Mr Ábalos, very much in the style of this government. You scandalize the Spaniards of good, including many socialists, by crossing the lines of infamy to end up negotiating the state accounts with separatists and heirs of ETA, to which you have even praised your sense of responsibility. [[applause]] His Government had re-manufactured an engineer, in this case a Frankenstein budget, along with interlocutors from the Otegi and Rufian coves. They are accounts full of humiliating blots and blots for our democratic system. It is disappointing that you and your Government are trading with constitutional principles, substituting national unity, putting the highest values of our legal system for sale and breaking territorial cohesion and social vertebration. Minister, in the face of this indignity, we call for memory, dignity and justice for the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]] My group has tabled more than 600 amendments to this section, amounting to EUR 4400 million, which seek to promote and reorient transport, housing, mobility, connectivity, infrastructure, logistics, postal and construction policies. In short, it is a completely different model from yours, Mr Ábalos. Their sectarianism has left them in the gutter in the Committee on Budgets. These are the budgets of the pandemic, Mr Ábalos, and the first thing that surprises us and seems particularly serious to us is that in this section there is not a single mention of health measures to prevent the spread of the virus, something in which you are already specialists; let us put as an example the six months that you have taken to take the measure of health controls in airport matters asking for the CRPs in origin for international flights. By the way, Minister, we hope that the expenses incurred by AENA will be borne by the Government of Spain and not, as you claim, that airport charges will be charged to our airlines. You classify these budgets, Mr Ábalos, as anticyclicals and transformers. Look at you, neither anticyclicals nor transformers, Mr. Ábalos. Anticyclics are not, because they have no investor or expansive character. The State's investment would fall by 4 % in 2021 without the doping of European aid from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, funds which, by the way, are linked to projects which are not yet submitted and which do not even have the corresponding regulation by the European Union. Mr Ábalos, however, you venture - and you said it here because you wrote it in those papers that you lost when you came up to the rostrum - EUR 5 billion from that fund for resilient infrastructure and ecosystems policy, and it is surprising that you intend to finance through these funds the railway corridors of the Trans-European Transport Network, for example, which have already received European funding since 2014, which expressly excludes double funding by other Community lines. Mr. Ábalos, the indicators of your management at the head of the ministry cannot be worse. Funcas and Seopan agree that the tender for public works will fall by 32 % this year. Construction in Spain has gone from 4.7% of our GDP to 2%, and in 2021 Spain will become the last country in Europe in per capita public investment. But, in addition, the public accounts also tell you, the liquidation of the last closed budget, the one corresponding to 2019, tells us that you at the head of the Ministry of Development stopped executing investments of 3000 million euros. That is the true result of your management, Mr Ábalos. You say it's a transformative budget. In order for it to be transformative, the investments it contains must be productive, and it will agree with me that what you have said in this rostrum a moment ago from the bicycle lanes and pedestrian sidewalks smells, smells a lot, PlanE. And I tell you one thing, following the steps of Zapatero, those of PlanE, we will end up in an irreparable way under the same circumstances, that is, in an economic crisis like that. But, moreover, this budget project exacerbates the territorial imbalances by forgetting vertebration and cohesion, and all this for that Persian market that you have mounted with the investments and with your gift checks to the independent political formations; how could you explain, if not, the raquitica investment per inhabitant that you will receive autonomous communities such as Madrid, La Rioja or Navarre in these accounts, much below the national average and in some cases the fourth with respect to other autonomous communities. Mr Ábalos, the deterioration of the universal postal service provided by Post Offices in rural areas is alarming and yet you are lowering your funds by 26% in these accounts. Similarly, rail services are being cut in rural areas, and so you say that you are fighting for empty Spain. Mr Ábalos, you place the housing market in a situation of great legal uncertainty, because the regulation of rent prices is pure interventionism, typical of the economic policy of the most radical left and will undoubtedly have very negative effects and will attack private property. You talk about a 2000 housing plan, but you forget what you announced in 2018 - because of that nothing is known - when you committed to executing 20,000 rented houses. Mr. Ábalos, these are not accounts, they are tales, and they are tales based on improvisation, on inability to manage...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorite, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u85	...that you permanently star in that ministerial department. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u86	Thank you, Mr. Lorite. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it looks like there's going to be budgets; things of life when you add up more votes. Democracy has one thing, and it's going to add votes. You go through the polls first, you get elected deputies, and then you get here and you vote on things. That is what is called democratic legitimacy. There are other things that are not legitimate, and it is not legitimate not to recognize the popular will and get above the popular will; this weekend we have seen it. We have seen seventy-three vassals say that what is done in this House is illegitimate and trying to put their old uniform above popular sovereignty. And one thing to say is very simple, very simple: there is no country without a people, and those who try to put the uniform above the people are traitors to the country. Let it be clear and recorded in the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] In principle, these budgets are a very important step in the way out of the neoliberal path, they are not the end of the road, they are only the beginning. They create an anticyclical logic and the possibility of making investments that allow us to start looking to the future in another way. I think we will have a lot of work to do in supporting the Government during budget implementation. There is an approach, which is housing rehabilitation, which is of vital importance for the future, and there must be courage to have an inclusive orientation and to leave no one out. I believe that this is one of the key elements, the strengthening of housing policy in terms of rehabilitation and the strengthening of the public housing park throughout the State. Speaking of social housing, I would like, at the door of an eviction tomorrow from Encasa Cibeles of one of the houses that have to be recovered by court ruling, according to the Supreme Court, by the Community of Madrid, to urge the opposition groups to talk to Mrs Ayuso - I think Casado is with her opening something there today - and to take the opportunity to tell her to comply with the sentences and to recover those houses so that they return to the hands of the people and not to throw the people out of their homes, as is going to happen tomorrow with a person who had a dwelling awarded in a public program and, by that fraudulent sale to the vulture funds, tomorrow is threatened by an eviction. It is important to recover homes from the public park because it is very difficult to do them and it is very easy to dilapidate them, it is very easy to dilapidate them, which is what has been done in this country by putting the institutions at the service of economic powers. To me, sincerely, these budgets I like above all for one thing and it is that for the first time, since the reform made by Mr Rajoy, who turned the socimis into tax havens, you will again remember that those who carry out economic activities in our country have to contribute, they have to pay, and I believe that it is a very interesting fact and fundamentally it is a fact of democratic justice, but we have to keep walking because it is a first step, they will start paying little, but we hope that sooner or later they will pay as much as the income from work. These budgets are important and, in particular, this section, because of the importance of public enterprises linked to the section we are talking about right now. We are committed to a dynamism of public enterprises and to playing an important role in the process of economic recovery. They're fundamental. Faced with those who argue that the market has to become the wild West, it is necessary to recover the democratic line, which is simple: regulation of the market, first of all, and acting by the public sector as an important economic actor that becomes a tractor of the impulse of economic recovery. We believe that this has to be the way and that, moreover, we are playing many things. We and we know that in order to guarantee rail transport there may be private companies that lend it, but if they have problems they will run out and we will only have Renfe to guarantee rail transport. And when we talk about logistics and when we talk about communications, we know that there are many companies that can perform such services, but at the same time we know that it is essential, that it is an essential element to have Post Offices healthy as a powerful company that is able to push and that is able, in addition, to prevent the establishment of a monopoly of a company on a global level that questions the most basic labour rights, as we are seeing every day by the repeated complaints from the social and trade union sphere. This morning we got up with some terrible news. We were able to know that Amazon used the sewers to pursue trade union freedom. We have to say that these practices have to be banished, but at the same time logistics must be guaranteed and communications must be guaranteed in our country, and there Post has to play a key role in ensuring that a private model in transport and communications is not created. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u88	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u89	It's an important section. We believe that these budgets are important and take a first step towards the exit of the neoliberal path, but we know that there are still many fundamentalists from Milton Friedman and Von Hayek, and in front of them we ask the comrades who are in the government to push and be brave, to be brave and to put on the table the rights of the social majority against those who have always been privileged, to defend the productive fabric against rentism and to explain to Mr Joan Clos, president of the owner's employer, that sooner or later in this country, as is the case in the workplace, there will be collective bargaining between tenants and owners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De las Heras Fernández has the floor for the VOX parliamentary group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ábalos, as far as the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda is concerned, tells us that it brings us the most ambitious budgets of the last ten years, with a 53% increase on those in force. However, if we discount the third that comes from European funds, what happens in reality is that they are reducing them. What happens if, finally, those $5 billion don't come or if they're late? Will they continue to do these budget items, investing them with that forecast, at the cost of further indebtedness? Because I remind you that Brussels has already issued the first warning following Sánchez's assault on the General Council of the Judiciary; the European Socialists, by the way. Having denied the above, I am going to double the failure of this investment in two points. First, to forecast an expenditure of $16,664 million, they must be collected first. They asphyxiate the citizens, who are dying with an unorthodox rise of taxes to the middle and lower classes, self-sufficient, small entrepreneurs who have already been forced to close their businesses by the decrees of this government and workers who have not yet collected the ERTE. And secondly, if you tell me that these investments are meant to condone autonomous quotas, support for families, small and medium-sized enterprises... However, nothing further from the reality, because the truth is that infinite items are allocated to unproductive structural expenditure and to broad concepts such as various expenses, others, protocol attentions, advertising and propaganda - they like advertising very much - meetings, conferences, courses, works carried out by other companies, studies and technical works, and a long and so on. In summary, the items increase to create undefined sections, high amounts for high offices especially in supplementary remuneration, as well as open items in order to be able to assign jobs to companies for the plugging by which the ministry has been highlighting to date. [[Applauds]] Mr Ábalos, you said in the presentation of the 2021 draft budgets that one of the main objectives is to strengthen the welfare state. Yes, indeed, that of politicians: high levels of support for access to housing, high levels of infrastructure and rail transport, high levels of management and inspection of land transport, high levels of regulation and supervision of railway safety... Do you really think that with investments in indeterminate concepts and in high office we will get out of this crisis? You already know that, because you raise your salary. You want to talk about job creation? He mentioned that road education programmes are increasing by 15%, with 58% in conservation. However, it has forgotten to say - I do not know whether or not intentionally - that the appropriations for staff are reduced by more than EUR 3 million. Job creation or destruction? How do you intend to execute 2340 million euros more investment forecast if you reduce precisely the personnel responsible for its execution? Are we talking about transport aid? They're down to the air. And those of extra-penisular shipping of goods and land transport do not respond to real needs. One of the two shipping companies connecting the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands to the peninsula is already awaiting a rescue such as that of Air Europe and, in terms of supply, the construction material already arrives late and the food trucks in supermarkets have been reduced from one daily to two weekly in the Balearic Islands. Their budgets did not guarantee public service obligations or the provision of essential transport services, even the supply of non- peninsular territories, were a failure. Let's talk about housing. Where are the 20,000 homes you promised two years ago? Only 16% are in execution and, of course, they have introduced their discriminatory gender perspective in access to housing, considering a single parent family only if it is a woman, but it is that they have even selected first-time orphans and second-time orphans, because under the yoke of what you call gender, only orphans for this reason are taken into account. What about those children who have lost their mother to cancer or a traffic accident? Do these children not have the same right or need to have access to housing? We already know you don't have it. And don't come and twist my words because we already know each other. I'm just telling you not to pick orphans. There is a programme that stands out especially and which you have mentioned very briefly: that of rescue in the sea; a programme focused on the action on the pateras and boats that reach the coast. In 2019 and 2020, 18 000 people were expected to be rescued; however, by 2021, the government is planning the arrival of 60 000 people at our expense, allocating to the public entity Sasemar the cold of more than 133 million euros, which citizens will pay with their taxes, of course. But perhaps the most surprising thing about this game is what is hidden behind it, since it not only shows that the massive arrival of illegal immigration is being assumed - an increase that, of course, is not reflected in an increase in the number of means to prevent the situation - but rather in the question of the reason for the forecast of the increase of more than 300 % on the arrival of illegal immigrants, the Secretary of State of Transport answered me literally - and I quote -: Mrs De las Heras, told me that it is an expansive policy. It is precisely part of European policy, I think it is very obvious. The Government's migration policy is broad, ambitious, not completed here, in this ministry, but part of several ministries. It is a policy, as I say to you, broad, ambitious, modern, attached to the territory and this ministry does and fulfils its role. You see, for once we seem to have managed to get a member of this government to tell the truth, although it seems that someone did not like it because that video disappeared from the Congress website until the VOX Parliamentary Group claimed it. And as far as illegal immigration is concerned, it seems to be an ambitious European policy of this government covering several ministries. Is that why you want to increase your investments? Is that why you want to ruin the Spaniards? In order to complete its comprehensive, ambitious and modern migration policy, which forms part of European policy? Or are you going to accuse the Secretary of State for Transport of being a liar? In short, the budgets that bring us do not respond to the welfare state of the Spaniards, but rather to that of politicians, their ambitious policies and their globalist agenda. My partner was cut off from the microphone yesterday when I said that these budgets carry the ETA stamp, so I would like to finish my speech by saying that if on one occasion I said that the Spanish Socialist Workers Party had lost the O of Workers and the E of Spanish, I would now like to say that it has recovered them: the O of Otegi and the E of ETA. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u92	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u93	Thank you, President. Today we come here to discuss the amendment to budgets that are going to vote many parties; budgets that are going to be supported by nationalist parties, by left parties, by regionalist parties, by green parties and that is very important because it is a draft country budgets. Budgets that drive the AVE of Extremadura; that drive the proximity of Madrid, Catalonia and Valencia; that drive housing policies; that drive the completion of the AVE to Galicia. [[rumors]] Of all these policies, do you know who will vote against? The right-wing parties of this House. Gentlemen of the Spanish right, do you know what it's like to be more patriotic? Supporting budgets that think of the Spaniards, that is being much more patriotic than teaching the flag of Spain every day. This is being patriotic in this country, supporting people above the outdated policies of the right. [[Applauds]] Today we have had a very graphic image of what the infrastructures are for the People's Party, we have seen Ayuso with Pablo Casado and with Almeida inaugurating concrete. And I say concrete because there are no nurses in that hospital, there are no cell phones and there are no doctors. Once again, the People's Party puts concrete above people, and that is the policy that the People's Party has for many years done with infrastructure. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have tabled many amendments, it is true, and I recognise that these amendments serve only one thing: to give press briefings throughout the territory, counting all the policies they wanted to do and did not do when they ruled. The question is, gentlemen of the People's Party, why didn't you do all this when you ruled, because two and a half years ago you were in the government. It is curious to see how the People's Party did not implement many of the amendments then, when it was in the government. Gentlemen of the People's Party, when you were ruling, you were rescuing banks and rescuing broken toll roads, while this government has rescued families, SMEs and self-governing. That is the difference between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]] Gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u95	... When you were ruling, you were cutting down on road maintenance. This government is trying to reverse the deficit situation of 7 billion euros that the People's Party left us on the road network, 7 billion deficits, 7 billion in the form of accidents, 7 billion in the form of people who lost their lives in many accidents. And this government has increased this amount by more than EUR 12 billion. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you cut off the conventional train departures and close quarters and we saw noisy images for all citizens; we saw how there were citizens, extremist users who had to drive around the countryside at 45 degrees because the People's Party stopped investing in the conventional railway. [[Applauds]] Those are the policies of the People's Party. Gentlemen of the People's Party, this government is going to invest 4 billion in the purchase of new trains so that that does not happen what we have seen so many times in the media, so that the extremists do not feel like second-rate citizens. That is what this Government is going to change with budget items that think of people above concrete. It's funny to hear you talk about Post here. Do you know what the People's Party did when it ruled? Trying to get Correos to die little by little. They are talking here about the Universal Postal Service Delivery Plan, a plan that had to be approved from 2010 and that after seven and a half years of People's Party government, it failed to approve budget after budget, cutting budget lines for a postal company. But the curious thing is how when they rescued broken toll roads they took the money for the infrastructure that all citizens needed for transportation, for mobility, for what makes us all feel the same. And that is what has caused for many years the model of the People's Party, the model of infrastructure, to be identified with several things. First, with territorial imbalance. Never in this country have citizens felt more abandoned than when ruling the People's Party. The governments of the People's Party have made us feel like second-class citizens and first-class citizens. They caused imbalances between citizens, cut down above all that was promised, and that is what they are trying to do again in these budgets, in these amendments, a letter to the Magi who when they govern they fail to comply. These are the most investor budgets in the last ten years. These are the budgets that invest more than 2250 million euros in housing. These are the budgets that try to ensure that all citizens - regardless of where they live, regardless of their place of residence - can have the same conditions. We, as it cannot be otherwise, are proud of these budgets; budgets that allocate more than EUR 370 million for urban public transport. These are the budgets that this government has agreed; budgets that allocate more than €2.2 billion to housing policies; budgets that allocate more than €1.5 billion to neighbourhoods; and budgets that the People's Party, Citizens and VOX call socialcommunists. And I say, if these are the socialcommunist policies, welcome are the policies that think about people, the policies that think about citizens, as I said, above the interests of other kinds and the interests of large corporations. [[applause]] I recognize that I am proud to be a socialist. I am proud of the socialist governments that managed to have universal education and public health. I am proud of the socialist governments that have achieved equal marriage for all, regardless of their way of thinking and their way of wanting and loving; socialist governments that have managed to implement minimum living income; socialist governments that have managed to enter the European Union. [[Rumors]] That is why I say that they repeat every time they want'social communist government', because I and all my colleagues are very proud to be socialist and to work every day to improve people's lives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 18, Education and Vocational Training We move on to the debate in section 18, Ministry of Education and Vocational Training. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I compare at the plenary session of the Congress to report on the budget of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training for the year 2021, a budget that has been designed to go beyond the huge impact that the VOCID-19 pandemic is bearing and that lays the foundation for the modernization and transformation of the education system. The budgets that I am presenting to you today reflect an unprecedented budget increase, because in the knowledge society development can only be achieved with more and better education. The budget for the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training amounts to a total of EUR 5697 million, an increase of 139% over the budget with which we started 2020. There had never been an increase of this magnitude. As I indicated in my previous appearance, the exit from this crisis will not be at the expense of education as in previous years. The three political priorities of the ministry that reflect the budgets are: equity, vocational training and digitization. The items directly aimed at ensuring that no one is left behind in the education system, such as scholarships, expansion of children's education and prevention of early school leaving, amount to EUR 2407 million. To strengthen and develop vocational training we will allocate EUR 1628 million, an investment that will lead to more training and better quality for young people, whether they are employed or unemployed. Accelerating the digitization of the education system, for its part, in a constantly changing world, is essential. We will invest 1012 million in technology resources in student centres and for teacher training in digital skills. I'm going to degenerate the most outstanding games. In the area of equity, there is an increase of EUR 515 million which will allow the reform of the state system of scholarships and grants to continue and guarantee the right to study. With this 35% increase compared to the 2020 budget, the total amount reaches EUR 2090 million, the largest scholarship budget so far. This amount corresponds to the budget of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training 2050 million. Progress is being made in the expansion of places for the first cycle of Child Education, from 0 to 3 years, thanks to an investment of more than 200 million euros in 2021 for the creation of some 21,800 places of public ownership of the first cycle of Child Education, priority 1 and 2 years. In the field of prevention of early school leaving and improvement of educational outcomes, three important actions are collected, with an investment of 155 million euros; 125 million euros in the Program of Guidance, Advance and Enrichment, PROA Plus, for 1800 centers of special educational complexity. A new initiative to prevent dropouts and improve educational outcomes is also being launched, with an investment of €30 million for the creation of 618 units of personal and family support and guidance for students who are vulnerable to education. These units will provide educational or psycho-pedagogical services in their school areas and districts. Finally and equally important, we will invest EUR 600 000 for the design of a new curriculum based on the development and evaluation of key competences, to make it much more flexible and open, and to promote deep learning through active and collaborative methodologies. With regard to the chapter on the digitization of education, I would like once again to highlight the tremendous adaptation that all educational teams have made in educational institutions to meet the challenge of moving from analogue to digital education. In order to deepen and accelerate the digitisation of the education system, with an investment of 1012 million euros, we are launching a plan for the digitisation of education, which will be developed in collaboration with the autonomous communities. It consists of an investment of EUR 150 million for 250 000 additional computer devices which have already started to be tendered and which corresponded to the amount of EUR 500 000; an investment of EUR 827 million for the installation of 236 318 interactive digital classrooms for the development of a hybrid system of face-to-face and distance learning. Another important issue is the digital competences of teachers, for which we will invest 32 million euros in 2021. Vocational training is another of our priorities, as you know well. The budget of the year 2021 for FP reaches 1628 million euros, including regular budget, investments of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and, in addition, the competences of professional training for employment, linked to the national catalogue of professional qualifications, assumed in this legislature. The FP, the vocational training for employment assumed by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, has a budget of €974 million. For its part, the vocational training of the education system will reach a budget of 654 million by 2021. Taking into account that it started in January 2020 from a budget of 187 million euros, we note that this figure has experienced an increase of 349 % in one year. I would like to recall at this point that last July the President of the Government presented the Plan for the Modernisation of Vocational Training 2020-2023, which was accompanied by a credit transfer of EUR 316 million by 2020. This plan is now strengthened and increased with the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. I would like to highlight some of the most important actions, not all of them. One, the accreditation of basic and professional skills, with an investment of 127 million euros. With this initiative we will recognise and accredit in 2021 the skills acquired through the work experience of 532,000 people. Two, increase in the supply of FP places in the education system, with an investment of 64 million euros to create 47 400 new places this year. Three, investment of 170 million euros to start the bilingual conversion of middle and higher education cycles. Four, modular offer in companies, with an investment of 30 million euros for 125 000 workers, employed and unemployed, who will have training itineraries adapted to the specific needs of each person. Fifthly, the creation of a network of centres of excellence in vocational training, with an investment this year that will reach 50 million euros to launch the first twelve centres. We continue to make progress in measures of the Vocational Training Plan for 2021, with 125 projects for the promotion of innovation and knowledge transfer projects, for 15 million; investment of 11.7 million euros for 212 classrooms in applied technology spaces; 550 entrepreneurship classrooms, for 4.7 million euros; 750 Mentor classrooms, for 3 million euros, in those municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants; we will also train in this chapter 25 000 teachers and, in addition, we will renew twenty new catalogue degrees to cover eleven strategic sectors, with a budget of 200 000 euros. In policy 24, for employment training, the vocational training budget - as I have already mentioned - amounts to EUR 974 million. It should be noted that all this investment will be directed towards modular supply associated with environmental sustainability and to the reskilling and upskilling of employees and the unemployed. It should also be noted that an additional EUR 140 million will be implemented in vocational training for employment, which corresponds to multiannual programmes and which are under the responsibility of the Public State Employment Service, SEPE, for having started this service and the programmes. Before I conclude, I would also like to refer to Ceuta and Melilla. The budget for the management of education in Ceuta and Melilla is increased by 11.7%, more than the previous year, bringing the total amount to 225 million euros. In addition, a new line of work is created jointly with Radiotelevision Española for the implementation of the Educational Program We learn in Clan - which is continuity of We learn in House -, endowed as 1.2 million euros; it will be very useful for children between 6 and 12 years old. In addition, there are external education programmes of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, which amount to EUR 118 million to continue the activities of our centres and programmes abroad, benefiting 40,494 pupils in 27 countries. In the area of lifelong learning for teachers, in addition to what I have already mentioned in digitalisation, we will also allocate an amount of EUR 5.8 million through the Intef for lifelong learning activities. Finally, EUR 1.1 million is allocated to international educational evaluation programmes such as Pirls, Piaac or PISA. I conclude my intervention here to explain to you the General Budgets of the State in relation to the competences of our ministry. The education system is facing, like all Spanish society, the enormous challenge of coping with the difficulties brought by COVID-19. This Government has already clearly expressed its commitment to education by earmarking this year 2020 an extraordinary investment of EUR 2 billion from the COVID Fund for the adaptation of educational institutions to health needs and the expansion of the staff of teachers. Similarly, an urgent investment of 230 million euros was made to launch the Education Plan in Digital and thus acquire half a million computer devices for the most vulnerable families. In addition, the funds for reinforcement and support programmes have been expanded, some difficulties - the difficulties experienced by our families and our students - which are also being shown with undeniable evidence and are expressing urgent needs for the modernization of Spanish education and for the improvement of quality with excellence, equity with excellence for the quality of our education system. The unprecedented increase we propose in these budgets places education as a key investment for recovery and transformation. Investment, this investment, is a necessary condition, albeit not sufficient, to have a quality, innovative and transformative educational system. Moving on to a policy of cuts and a retrograde legal framework like the one we have been through these years is an essential first step. We hope to have the broadest support of your ladies and gentlemen at this stage of modernization and enhancement of the education that the young deserve and society demands of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Sayas López has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u99	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, the biggest investment that can be made in education is investing in freedom, that's the biggest investment we can make in education. Therefore, trying to limit and torpedo the freedom of families to choose the educational center they want for their children is to impoverish education; and trying to impose a model just because you believe in it ideologically, against freedom, is an attack on education that cannot be compensated with euros, Minister. You have eliminated social demand because you believe that social demand favors the concerted, and not social demand favors freedom, makes all Spaniards freely choose the education that families want, and you are just trying to torpedo that freedom. The other day you said yourself in an interview in La Sixth that the programming corresponds to the public administrations, and it is true, the programming corresponds to the public administrations, it has corresponded to the whole history. The difference is that so far, public administrations have allowed families to choose freely and you want to choose it unilaterally. I don't know what fear you have of freedom, but it is clear that this law goes against freedom. And, look, I'm gonna talk to you about my own private case. I'm from a humble family, my mother has worked at home all her life, my father was an operator in an electronic component company. The EGB studied it at a public school, a school in my village, in Buñuel; the Baccalaureate did it at the concert, in the Jesuits of Tudela, and the career I did it at the University of Navarra, a private university. With this law, my family probably wouldn't have been able to choose the education I had. And you know why not? Because you are making there be a kind of education in which you can only choose those who can pay for it, and I want an education in which everyone, in freedom, can choose. [[Applauds]] Because that is one of the greatness that this country has had, which gave equal amount of money to you, it gave equal value because education was valued as an element that made us equal and with the culture of effort and with the solidarity of all the Spaniards, with an advanced scholarship program, regardless of the economic resources that each family had, we could choose in freedom. You are making some parts of education now excluded from those who cannot afford it. That is a step back in equality, a step back in the history of our country, but above all it is an attack on freedom. He also said that these budgets promote equity and excellence. Man, it's a curious way, at least, of promoting excellence to allow you to pass the course with suspense. It is a curious way, at least, of promoting excellence, but it is also a very curious way of promoting equity the fact that the title can be accessed in a different way depending on the autonomous community in which it is lived, because that is all but equity and equality among Spanish citizens. He said that education needs financial resources. And yes, of course it needs economic resources - let me see that the grant section of these budgets convinces me; there are, of course, others that do not, but this one does - but it also needs to be well used and those resources to arrive. You promised us five hundred thousand computers and tablets for families who had no resources and would be available in September. It's December, and those families still don't have those devices. Of course, you say that the Autonomous Communities already knew it, that they cannot complain, but that these devices are not for the Autonomous Communities, but for families who do not have enough income to face their purchase and who have the right to be in the educational world with the same opportunities as citizens who can afford such resources. It is to these citizens that the Government has not given an answer for nine months and that will be anything, but it is not to promote equality in our country. On the other hand, one of the unacceptable payments of this law has been the attack on Spanish and is precisely the result of these budgets. You have eliminated Spanish as a vehicle for education to pay for the blackmail of Republican Esquerra and with this you have assumed the nationalist discourse of languages, because the nationalists do not want to promote languages, but to impose them, because they do not understand them as a cultural or communication element; they understand them as a part of national construction. Alex Grijelmo said that one thing is the right of speakers to speak and choose the language they want and another is the right of languages to have mandatory customers. And, minister, languages have no right to have compulsory customers, but Spanish people do have the right to study in Spanish throughout the national territory or, at least, they had it until you came with this law. Another important part of education is vocational training. Obviously, as we are waiting for a regulatory change in vocational training, we will have plenty of time to talk about this area from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u100	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u101	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Since the beginning of the pandemic, my party has always demonstrated responsibility and willingness for dialogue and work because we understood that the situation was critical. This attitude is not new, because we have understood that the situation of education has been critical in this country for a long time. That is why we have been calling for and demanding a consensus educational reform in a great social and political pact for a long time. Madam Minister, the other day you said that the parties that we have not supported your law have self-excluded. I mean loud and clear that that is not true and that not by much repeating over and over again a lie becomes reality. Because he's going to say that about the budgets, too. Are you also going to dare to say that in these budgets we have not had the will to dialogue and have self-exclusion? I say this because all of Spain has seen that it was its party and that it was its government that chose to subdue these Spanish budgets to phylo-terrestrials and secessionists. All Spain has seen with whom you choose to dialogue, with whom you want to dialogue. If you would like to have a dialogue with us, if you really had a spirit of consensus, work and service in this situation, you would have sat down and negotiated and voted on the Andalusian budgets, but you have not even had the dignity to do so. So lessons from dialogue to us, none. Those who act sectarianly and who do not want to work for the Spaniards are you; you. Because you have not put yourselves at the service of the Spaniards, you have put yourselves at the service of your great leader and, if for that you have had to sell not only to this generation, but to future generations, you have not had any kind of problem. Minister, you've been in Britney Spears mode for a few weeks, making television bowling on television, trying to sell the goodness of a law and of budgets that don't exist. You can go wherever you want, but your law is bad. Their law is bad because it will not improve quality, equality or equity. You said the Wert Act was retrograde. But if your law goes back thirty years! I don't defend the Wert Law, but yours, of course, neither. I have already told you on other occasions that your reform is a dubious democratic guarantee. No more trophies can be made in so little law. Say what you say on television, yes, this law affects the freedom of choice of all: of the children of the public, of the children of the concertee and of the children of the private. It also attacks teachers and inspectors. Finally, it is a reform that you have proposed cheating, and I will tell you why. First, because it is the advance payment you have made to Bildu and ERC. Yes, Bildu and ERC have been charged in advance with the education law on issues such as the High Educational Inspectorate or with the theme of Spanish. But also because what you do is try to make up the early school drop-out figures by lowering the level of the education system. For what? In order to be able to opt for European funds. Because, look, this is not a ballad: the European Council and the European Commission have made recommendations to them that they say that Spain, in fact, needs an educational reform by a broad consensus and that it is really a good reform. When you have a law that has more parties that do not support it than parties that support it - exactly twice as many parties that do not support it as parties that support it - something is not right. But if you, instead of strengthening children's skills, weaken them, something really goes wrong. As for the content of the budgets, you take out some figures that are really in the air, because for that we need to have the funds. Do you know why the funds aren't on the table right now? Because part of the conditionality that has been placed on some countries has to do with respect for the rule of law. I do not know how you will justify respect for the rule of law when you propose laws that lack mandatory reports, that have not had consensus and that have not even allowed the communities concerned to speak. Minister, you are in time to rectify; it will not be that, because you do not rectify, we cannot opt for money that we urgently need all the Spaniards. Specific issues. On paper you put that you are going to increase the funds earmarked for the concerts. The paper endures everything, but, of course, then you draw a law that loads them directly because, as the previous spokesman has already said, the issue of social demand is being loaded. In addition, you have voted against one of our amendments where we propose to open the sectoral education table with concerted education to review the funding module of the school post. Well, they said no. With regard to equity, yes, you have the Proa Plus theme, certainly a Proa Plus that you charge against funds that we still don't have, because really, really, you have only put EUR 5 million into this. We have proposed an amendment to them so that, instead of having a generic Proa Plus, they implement an educational programme such as that adopted in England, the Pupil First, with a system of tutoring that, according to scientific evidence, has been shown to be what works to eliminate the gap between children. Do you know what you said? No, no, We continue with equity. The subject of scholarships. You presume to increase the grant funds in these budgets, and, by the way, also from the budget. If there is no money from Europe, will not the scholarships for children be increased? I'm asking. We have tabled an amendment to ensure that these scholarships are paid in time. And what did they say to our amendment? No, I don't. I'm still with equity. We are very concerned about the crusade you are making against special education - yes, against special education -. Where are the funds to strengthen inclusive education, special education? They're not. We have tabled an amendment. What did you say? No, no, We have tabled an amendment - on the issue of equity, which they are so concerned about - of EUR 4 million to increase the grants for dining, which will be necessary because many people have lost their jobs and will not have resources. What did you say? No, no, We have proposed an amendment to put money in order to reform the Strategic Plan for School Living; bullying, gentlemen of Podemos, sounds to you? What did you say? No, no, In short, they have said no to budgets that served the children of this country, that served the Spaniards, and they have said yes to budgets that is a project of rupture and pact with nationalism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs Martín, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u103	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u104	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u105	Thank you, President. Listening to you one has the impression that you are greatly annoyed and uncomfortable with our country receiving funds from the European Union for your recovery. All his speeches seem to be aimed at questioning, putting obstacles and not fighting so that our country can get out of this situation and take on an enormously important reconstruction. And don't tell me what they do in Europe, which I know perfectly well. We are in contact with the European Green Party and I know what each of you is doing in Europe: putting down, the better our country receives funds. Secondly, I thought the debate was about budgets today and I am going to try to talk about budgets, although some have reiterated the speech we have already heard in the debate on the Education Act. But there is something they systematically forget, and that is where we come from, because, in the first place, the educational problem that our country has, in addition to others, is the lack of clamorous funding resulting from the 2008 crisis, where health and education suffered the greatest impacts. Our problem is lack of faculty, lack of resources, lack of funding. While the countries of our European environment safeguarded investments in education and health, there have been ten years of cuts in this country; they did not safeguard them, but the opposite. So, you, what do you count, when you are responsible for the downfall of funds fundamentally, of the most vulnerable part, public education, and you know it? What do they come to say here, if we have suffered for many years lack of faculty? Tell the education professionals, teachers and teachers, who are systematically accused of indoctrining boys and girls. Tell it to the teacher, who has suffered more than anyone before, during and after the pandemic. We clearly support it, although we are sure that we have incorporated other issues, the budget, we clearly support it, because it is the end of the decade of cuts that have affected the country as a whole and fundamentally our public services, all of them, but especially education. You really have to have a lot of guts to get out here and tell about the movie they have about freedom and equality in education. You know, you know perfectly well who and how the cuts have affected: the most vulnerable sectors, the worst sectors. Before the pandemic, with the 2008 crisis, poverty affects very important sectors of our population and, with it, poor performance and poor educational expectations, and they know it. They also know that when schools are closed and when there are problems, that situation only widens a gap that already existed. Are you going to tell me in the Community of Madrid the manner of educational management that you support, which has meant your trajectory, the lack of resources, the lack of resources and having given plots, not the concerted, no, to the vulture funds and to the agents associated with the Gürtel and for the Punica? And they have the guts to come out here and tell what they're telling; really, really... With this new budget I think we have the opportunity and the duty to do two things: one, to overcome that failure of lack of investment in our education system that has put us very behind our European environment, and two, to focus the greatest resources on those who need it most; something as simple as that. By the way, I like it very much when they have from Citizens speeches on different educational models in the Community of Madrid and the law of Spanish and Spanish. For taxation, isn't it? Can the Community of Madrid, where you govern, exempt from income of 4 million and lose 4 billion resources by going against education and health? Is that so? Do you like that inequality? [[Rumors.-Mrs. Muñoz Vidal utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u106	Mrs. Muñoz, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u107	Well, we don't like that inequality. And the hypocrisy of speaking of one thing and its opposite, frankly, ladies and gentlemen... We believe that people have passed away fatally, that the most vulnerable population has passed away fatally, that people living in impoverished places in Catalonia, Madrid, Extremadura, Andalusia or Valencia have passed away very badly with this crisis and we have the opportunity with a budget really to reverse that trend, to end the decade of cuts and to put education, equality and equal opportunities within the reach of all Spanish and Spanish, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we - I quote a couple of amendments - have been very focused on this issue. One, the 3663, has to do with improving the dining grants. We believe that it is a very important criterion to be able to address the improvement in dining grants for vulnerable families. Another amendment proposes more support for schools with higher levels of vulnerability and where they need it most and, finally, an increase in scholarships for families with lower incomes and lower levels of education. We clearly also propose to support Vocational Training. I think we're playing a lot with this budget.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u108	Mrs. Sabanes, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u109	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u111	We are going to support them, and it seems to me that there are still absolutely raptured speeches that have nothing to do with reality. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Diez. [[Congressman: Let's go Sandra!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, when someone analyses a budget bill, they try to see the skeleton of what is supposed to be the government's goals, at least for next year. If this is accompanied by the processing of a new law, and not any law whatsoever, but a law that will determine the fate of non-university education until the next elections, what it expects at least, although personally it does not share a single comma of the political project, is a certain coherence. But it's just that you don't have any left, ladies and gentlemen, or that. That these are fictitious budgets, everyone knows today; that they have been drawn up on absolutely false forecasts, too. Today, the OECD has pointed out that Spain will grow half of what this government says next year. That answer to the purchase of the necessary votes for the president of the government to remain apoltronate in La Moncloa, this is already written with letters of fire in the minds of the Spaniards, which you, minister, accuse us of, what was the word?, jaquear. That there is not a single objective of general interest that is hidden in these public accounts and, yes, that are plagued by the particular prebendas of all those who curiously seek here also the rupture, the confrontation, the bankruptcy of the model of state that has cost us forty years to build, that is the reality, the sad reality. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if the law that you have dealt with in an express way, as I said to you, is not an educational project but a political one, the accounts that you have defended in this House are simply the finding that, beyond your ideological battle, there is nothing that you can offer to the Spanish educational system. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say this to you, and I also say this to you with absolute regret: you, who are self-proclaiming the adalides of equality and the protectors of the weakest, draw up public accounts ignoring from the beginning to the end the impact that the terrible pandemic we are suffering has had on the education system. Do you know that impact, ladies and gentlemen, minister? Do you know how many students have been left behind in recent months due to the absence of face-to-face education? Other countries, such as Belgium and the Netherlands, are assessing that impact, but you are not. We already know that that of evaluation, transparency, accountability is incompatible with its acronyms, but at least I thought that this time I did, that this time they were going to leave their prejudices aside to at least assume their responsibilities and dedicate resources to recover all those students, the students with the most difficulties in learning, those who belong to socially disadvantaged environments, but obviously it is not because, how much money do they dedicate to that end? I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, zero. Although, on second thought, why would you devote not a single euro to this issue if you have already designed your policy of general approval. Why spend, why invest in helping those who need it most if the Lomloe is already there to take on the students in that fantastic world of Alicia in the country of wonders, where, effortlessly, without record, without dedication, everyone can get what they want, the title, a title that you are going to devalue until you turn it into the pamphlet that is at the door of a supermarket. Fellowships, Your Honor, fellowships. Why have they refused to change the rules so that our scholarship system could reach students whose families have been hit hard by the COVID? You know, like me, that the circumstances of many of those families have changed, that many of them are in ERTE; others, with all their unemployed members, thousands of self-employed have had to close their business and hundreds of students are going to have to apply for a fellowship on fictitious income because at the moment they receive it, if they receive it, their economic circumstances may have no resemblance to reality. You, despite the continuing demands of this parliamentary group, have said no and, curiously, have changed the system with regard to academic performance, which you have not even had occasion or wanted to evaluate and have left the economic approach as it was. I wonder, then, what good is a system of scholarships and study aid that breaks the principles of justice, equity and equal opportunities. By the way, I would advise you to be more attuned to your grandiloquence over scholarships, because the truth is that scholarship policy has lost weight in the entire budget. Curious, is it not, that the effort you are making in scholarship policy in a clearly expansive budget is smaller than that made by the People's Party government, 60.6%, when we were still emerging from the crisis? By the way, I'd ask you not to leave those billion holes in scholarships that put the entire system in jeopardy. Let's see if for once, when we get to the government, despite the wishes of Mr. Iglesias, we can manage without having on top the scourge of incompetence that you usually leave behind when you close the door. [[The Lord]] Teacher, the vault key on which to establish the improvement of the quality of the education system: a heading for lifelong learning that depends, yes, on the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Of course, if it does not arrive, nothing happens, because you have delegated these powers to the autonomous communities, because you, with your law, have broken the national bodies of the faculty. Child education. Have you explained to your partners that these budgets do not guarantee the free education of children? I say that because they have been very belligerent on this issue. We expected a really important game on this issue, but your eight plus one project says we will move towards a sufficient and affordable public offer. Affordable? But it wasn't free? His speech reminds me of that 2008 Education Plan3 that of the billion left in 700 and of the 300 000 places left in 94 000. And what are you going to tell me about special education, Minister? Not a single euro intended for that omnipresent inclusion of your law, nor one, which demonstrates the cold alibi in which you have converted inclusive policies to justify the closure of special education centres. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I am final. This morning, when I was preparing this speech, I spent an important time reviewing games, trying to find that great economic commitment of your group to the whole educational system. Obviously, I haven't found it. Today we know that as much as I look for it I will not find it, because you had only one goal: to dislodge the PP from any decision in the field of education. Therefore, do not dare to tell us about funding, because they have had the opportunity to fulfill their goal, their promise and have not done so. Neither modernization nor transformation, ladies and gentlemen, we already know how history ends, and all we want is for you to leave as soon as possible before you become part of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Minister. Just two weeks ago we were in this very rostrum celebrating the adoption of the new Education Act. Well, some of us celebrated it; others were doing it by beating their seats, specifically some of you, the Members of the three right-wing. Today we come to approve another great achievement of this coalition government, such as the General Budgets of the State, budgets that are for the transformation, for the whole country, that are decisively committed to public health and public education as fundamental pillars of our welfare state, because if anything has taught us this pandemic has been the importance of strengthening our public services, which are precisely those that equal all of us. We are coming to this Chamber today with an even wider majority, that is, we are going to take an important step in strengthening this Government and consolidating a majority of governability away from the screams, away from the lies and away from the blows on the seats that the three right-wings have shown us in the last few days. And I say the three right, Mrs Martín Llaguno, because there are still three of you. Although Citizens have made the pretended attempt to escape the photo of Columbus, the truth is that even Photoshop can't stand you for a minute. We, the people of Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos, were already clear, but now all of Spain is convinced, Mrs Martín Llaguno, that you are ruling in Madrid, Murcia or Andalusia with the People's Party and with VOX because you share a lot, also in the educational sphere, with the ultra-right, that is, you, lords of Citizens, feel much more comfortable next to VOX than next to this coalition government. Make it clear, make it clear that you prefer to agree with the far right of VOX, as you do in Madrid, Andalusia and also in Murcia. The education budget, as the Minister said, is increasing by 139%, which is historic and which has never been seen in this Congress of Deputies. We have come from a decade of ideological cuts driven by the governments of the People's Party and here and now we are going to put an end to them, because you, gentlemen of the People's Party, are the ones who crush public education where they rule and always do so with the complicity of Citizens and now also of VOX. For example, you are the ones who in Madrid have eliminated more than 14 000 places in public school, with special emphasis on municipalities with the lowest incomes. You have imposed a €350 000 cut for public centres in the Community of Madrid and you have stopped hiring, according to the Workers' Committees, 626 specialists in therapeutic pedagogy and in hearing and language, thus also cutting inclusive education. So, Mrs Moneo, do not come here to teach special education or inclusive education when in the Community of Madrid you are the experts who cut off the right to education for all and for all. [[Applauds]] So, gentlemen of the People's Party, the next time you see President Ayuso, tell her on my part that instead of going to visit Catalonia to stir up an invented conflict, such as the linguistic conflict, please go to a public school in Parla or Getafe and see what Madrid public education has turned into, although it is true that Mrs Ayuso is more to work for the interests of the rich than to defend the public education that equals us all. That is probably why Mrs. Ayuso protests so much when someone tries to limit what has already become a tax haven for those who have more. That is why the Government of the People's Party and Citizens' Party manage so much when someone suggests that in Spain there can be no territory that bets on fiscal secession, as the Community of Madrid is doing, because this mainly harms the people of Madrid and Madrid, but also the financing of public education. I understand, Mrs Martín Llaguno and Mrs Moneo, that, after you have agreed on a law such as the Lomce and budgets such as those of Mr Montoro, you must come here to make political jugglings to say that the Lomloe or these budgets are bad, because these budgets are exactly the opposite of what you did in Mr Montoro's budgets. They make a strong commitment to public and quality education based on three sections: equity, the items directly aimed at ensuring that no one is left behind, such as school scholarships; the extension of education from 0 to 3; and the prevention of early school leaving, which means an investment of EUR 23 billion. Vocational training will be allocated EUR 1628 million, both for the education system and for employment, and the digitalisation of the system is also being addressed, because the pandemic has done what it has done is to put the weaknesses of the education system that this country has inherited from the governments of the People's Party in front of the mirror. These are, therefore, budgets that allow us to move forward, but we want to move forward more. We want to lower the ratios, we want to consolidate the fight against interinity in our education system and also guarantee the total equality in the working conditions of vocational training teachers. That is why, Minister, I repeat to you what I have said to you on many other occasions: we, in our own way, continue to transform the educational system of this country, because what we are going to have to face, let us do what we do, are the cries, the lies and the beatings of the seats that the three right-wings have taught us. What this Government wants to do is precisely to shield our public education through the law and through these state budgets, because public services are the only inheritance we will receive from the sons and daughters of the popular neighbourhoods. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u116	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Robles López has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the budgets. What I had to say about the Lomloe I said in the other speech, so I'm going to focus on the budgets. As is the case in virtually all areas of these general budgets, opacity, optimistic forecasts, the unnecessary increase in spending and the ideology that prevails in all of them and in all headings are also present here, as it could not otherwise be. These are budgets which, rather than tending to soften the differences in funding that the inefficient and unjust autonomous state produces, deepen even further in this injustice and make it clear that there are first- and second-class Spaniards also in the education of pupils. Mr. Mena says we lied. Do I lie when I say that the public investment per year in the education of a Basque child is 67% higher than that of Madrid, Murcia or Extremadura? Is that a lie? Oh yes? [[Mr. Mena Arca makes affirmative gestures]] I don't know what concept you have of the truth; check the figures. [[Applauds]] That's a truth like a temple. That's a truth like a temple! And is it a lie that a Basque teacher, in the specific supplement, charges more than 500 euros than one from Extremadura? Is that a lie, too, Mr. Mena? Come on, it's amazing. That, by virtue of Basque quota, students in that community have 60% more investment is something that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party nor, of course, the United We can say anything about; however, they come here and talk about equity. It's amazing. What a fairness, when not even the public investment per student and year is equal throughout the national territory! Please, are the children of Murcia or Extremadura less valuable than those of the Basque Country? Are they worth less? [[Applauds]] By the way, we are talking about a ministry from which much of its activity is transferred to the autonomous communities. And I want to add that those autonomous communities in which the PSOE and its allies govern spend less money than others. For example, Navarre, 16%; Asturias, 18%; Catalonia, almost 19%; Balearic Islands, 18%; Aragon, 19%. That in communities ruled by the PSOE and allies. In other communities, such as Andalusia, Murcia or Madrid, we are around 24%. It may turn out that this is also a lie, but it is in the ministry's own figures, Mr. Mena. Of the more than 5 billion budgeted, a good percentage corresponds to the COVID funds, hence the uncertainty, because we do not know what is going to happen. And in these budgets we find various problems and not little darkness. For example, there is an increase of more than 9 million in the heading on education abroad, and it is very important that a part be devoted to promoting the Spanish language abroad. It is wonderful, they promote the Spanish language abroad and here they remove Spanish as a vehicle language. By the way, Mrs Celaá and Mrs Martínez Seijo, you have problems with the prepositions. We have not said anything about not going to study Spanish, but it is not about studying Spanish, but about studying 'in Spanish', that is what you already certify. [[applause]] Well, in fact, in practice it had already disappeared, because the linguistic immersion in Catalonia is complete and absolute; in the Basque Country not, because 90% speak Spanish and as they submit to a linguistic immersion here no one finds out, but in the Catalan case, since they speak of equity and of promoting the most disadvantaged classes, do yourselves the favor of seeing the results that students who have Spanish as their mother tongue in Catalonia have. The academic results are much inferior and besides - that is true and are data of Catalan Civic Coexistence and several institutions - these students belong to the most disadvantaged social classes, to whom you are attacking with this law of linguistic immersion to build that Catalan'republiqueta'. [[Applauds]] Returning to the budgets, it is also not well understood that the expenditure of the ministry, a ministry that has practically all the competences transferred, will increase by some 47 million. And another thing: the concert with children's schools. The minister has just said that they are going to put an emphasis on 1-2 years. Basically - this has already been warned by the representatives of children's schools - this will lead to the closure of those schools, because you are going to quarter the stage, you are going to quarter it, because, obviously, the investment that would have to be made in the centers in order to be able to introduce the children of the first year of life there is very large. What's going to happen? That wanting to sell this as something that means giving free children's school, what's going to happen is that children's schools are going to have to close because they take away the bulk of their studenthood. Would it not be much simpler to have a good agreement with these children's schools to ensure that all children whose parents want them to attend school at this stage, which is not compulsory? It is very simple, just a good agreement with these children's schools and save money that is not there. The next point is vocational training. You have made the transfer of vocational training competence to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. A new FP secretariat is created and the objectives you have set are purely declaratory, not developed. Here again there is a curious concept of equity: the Basque Country, with a lower unemployment rate, receives more funds than the rest for FP. Again, we're on a level playing field. I suppose nationalist support also includes this type of budget line. It also draws attention to the fact that this ideology permeates something neutral such as vocational training: there is no mention of the structural weakness of the Spanish labour market and the modular offer is governed by sustainability criteria of the 2030 Agenda, the green transition. Obviously, these modules are not going to have anything to do with what we think is needed in our country, which is the reindustrialisation of Spain. You are pointing to all the progressive ideologies, in quotes, coming from Europe and from this 2030 Agenda. In relation to the funds earmarked for teacher training, transferred to the Autonomous Communities through the Intef, the contents are very different by Autonomous Community. Some of the courses have a pedagogical character, but they also use you to put gender ideology everywhere. In addition, in paragraph 321 of the Ministry, teacher training courses...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u118	Mr. Robles, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u119	...are mentioned budget items whose destination is... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u120	Thank you so much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. This is an extraordinary budget because we are living in extraordinary times, but if it is extraordinary, no doubt, it is even more so in section 18, the one for Education, where nothing more and nothing less than an increase of 139% over the last budget we inherited from the right. Of the 2380 million of Mariano Rajoy's policy of permanent and systematic cuts, we went to 5697 million for educational investment, so I understand that the right is angry and annoyed and that it is unable to speak positively of these budgets, because they are incomparable with the brewery that left us the right when it was ruling. [[Applauds]] These budgets prioritize education and talk about the needs of the education system. Just over two years ago the Socialist Party decided to say enough to the policy of right-wing cuts and we said that we did not want to follow the lie of the pact for education, because there was no willingness to bet on funding in the education system. At that time the Socialist Party was demanding EUR 1.5 million per year to ensure the recovery of educational investment and some of the policies we considered necessary. They told us that no, that it was not possible and we asked for it via General State Budgets. Well, at the moment we have not simply increased the budget by 1.5 million, but we have done so by 3317 million more, more than twice as much as we were demanding at the time to bet on an educational pact. [[applause]] We would have liked you to have had the slightest spirit of collaboration to contribute to the improvement of Spanish education, not only in the Lomloe, but also in these budgets, which, of course, are an essential advance for education, which has been waiting nine years for these budgets. Some group is calling for more scholarships and, of course, we too would like to, because to guarantee equal opportunities and equity all money is little, but we must remember that we reach a historical record, with 2090 million earmarked for scholarship policy and study aid this year, 514 million more than the People's Party left us. Mrs. Moneo, don't lie! [[Applauds]] So much lies will grow their noses as Pinocchio. They lie to the Castilian, they lie to special education, they lie to give away the approved ones and now they lie to even the budgets, which are there on the table and that we are analyzing them. Go back to reality, because from lying so much, we're already in a science fiction movie. We also bet on early childhood education from 0 to 3, and we must remind you that it was also the People's Party, when it arrived at the government, that ended with a program that you mentioned, which was the Education3, which planned to increase the places up to 300,000. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Well, it's over, it's closed. Now, children's education is a priority, but with the government's coalition budgets, the Socialist Government!, with those 200 million which, fortunately, will allow the enrolment rate to increase, starting with the 21 000 places that are expected to be created this year, up to 63 000 in the next three years. We are told that there are no funds allocated to the fight against school drop-out for vulnerable students. I do not know what budgets you will have read, because there is a programme, the Proa Plus, which allocates 125 million to fight against early school drop-out and another 30 to create 618 support units and educational and vocational guidance. That is true, you must be very much left in the Madrid Community, because here you are demanding funds to combat school drop-out and, meanwhile, this week the Madrid Community announced that it has given up EUR 2 million to work against early school drop-out, which is one of the most serious problems we have in this country, not just educational, but social. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, a little more coherence. If anything we are proud of is that line of funding with the Education in Digital program, which collects more than 1 billion euros to digitize our classrooms. And yes, do not worry, ladies and gentlemen, that the 500 000 devices will come, because for this there is a budget of 150 million euros. They'll be here, don't worry, they'll be in class. We know what you stopped doing. They also ended up with any hope of digitalization in the classroom as soon as they arrived at the Government. Or do I also have to remind you what you did with the School 2.0 Program? Mariano Rajoy came to the government and took care of any way of modernizing our classrooms and any possibility of digitization in them. Well, now we're going to have connectivity, interactive classrooms, with a endowment of 827 million. And not only that, but it is also accompanied by a specific training plan for teachers, so that it is updated, so that it acquires digital skills and can work properly in these interactive classrooms. Another very significant step forward, ladies and gentlemen, is vocational training, not just regulated vocational training but also vocational training for employment, which comes with a budget of EUR 1628 million and includes nothing more and nothing less than the education system and the employment system. This means, of course, more training, more skills and more qualifications for our young people, but also for workers, whether they are employed or unemployed. We believe that this is something that we need to be deeply proud of, to move forward in the educational model to provide the necessary training in the labour and economic fields. Fundamental are also the EUR 600 000 intended to make the curriculum change so important that it will affect Lomloe in the coming months. I'm ending up with two performances that I don't want to stop covering. The first, the investment in Ceuta and Melilla, 225 million to work with boys and girls in these autonomous cities. Of these, I must highlight the EUR 4 300 000 earmarked for children's education from 0 to 3, because they have the lowest school enrolment rate in all of Spain. I also finish with the action programme abroad. Mr Robles, don't worry, this government has the interest and all the commitment to bet on education not just in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u122	Mrs. Martinez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u123	... and in Spanish, but also abroad. Don't let her have any doubts. [[Applauds]] Section 19, Labour and Social Economy
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u124	We continue with the debate in section 19, Ministry of Labour and Social Economy. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Labour and Social Economy. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u125	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are bringing to this House today is a proposal for the future, the fruit of a joint and collective effort; they are not mere accounts of one more exercise, but the definite and solidary design of the foundations on which we are going to grow. There is more to these budgets: the commitment of the Government of Spain to quality employment and the final package to an extended 2018 budgets that in no way could already meet the needs that our country faces following the social and economic crisis resulting from the COVID-19. It is an expansive budget, 32,600 million euros, which represents an increase of 22,5%, 5893 million euros more than that budget that we left behind. We leave a budget behind and we also leave behind austerity and cuts. We are moving in the opposite direction: more rights for citizens, better public services and services and a strong boost to economic activity and employment. Europe has historically been built around its fractures, its crises, and the Europe with which this budget dialogues, ladies and gentlemen, is a Europe of one speed, reconstituted over people; a human engine that will drive more just, more egalitarian, more sustainable scenarios, ultimately more in line with our time and the challenges ahead. Allow me to briefly explain the figures and priorities for action in this budget. The Ministry of Labour and Social Economy will make a unique effort in employment to develop the budget lines that will be detailed. Firstly, there are active employment policies, because their redesign and implementation will be the backbone of our ministerial strategy. It is 6481,7 million euros, assuming an increase of 35,75 % over the previous budget, that they will undermine a topic resigned in our productive model, the one that says that only temporarily and precariously it is possible to grow and create employment, that we must choose between the bad and the worse, and that is not the case, we must prove that it is not so. In parallel, we have increased resources for self-employment and the social economy by almost 40%, because of their objective relevance but also because that is where many of the organizational and solidarity responses we need are located. Because the social economy, with its innovative initiatives attached to the territory and society, is in itself a source of quality employment. We will better and better protect the unemployed by strengthening the coverage of the system, which in 2021 will have 24.6 billion euros for contributory benefits and subsidies, 20.1% more in social protection. The crisis has exposed our vulnerability and confirmed that low-income families are the ones who suffer the most from economic inequality and those who have the most difficulty in accessing a job. We will greatly improve the level of protection for the most vulnerable by increasing Iprem by 5%, with an impact on the budget of EUR 550 million, which will, as you know, improve the level of public benefits for more than 1.5 million people. Our policies and their economic expression must curb this inequality, enable new social scenarios of growth for all and for all, all and all, men and women. This is one of the cross-cutting axes in the development of this budget, both at the policy and active policy levels, with programmes aimed at the recruitment of women from particularly vulnerable groups, also through incentives for the recruitment of female workers on the basis of suspensions or surpluses, which has proved to be a powerful mechanism for maintaining the labour market, and with programmes to support employment in rural and urban areas, overcoming gaps and encouraging a sustainable relationship with our work and living spaces. If we turn our backs on precariousness and cuts, as I tell you, we will reach out to our youth, because it will be the one that builds recovery and reconstruction after this crisis. It can't be any other way. They're our talent, they're our chance. These budgets will enable progress to be made in appropriate labour integration policies targeting young women and young people. The tools are set out for innovative treatment of training processes in alternation with work activity. Alongside the development of existing employment programmes, such as youth recruitment incentives or workshop school programmes or youth guarantee programmes, attention is focused on the return of migrant talent and youth employment plans in research programmes. It is necessary to invest in their training because training and talent continue to guarantee employment and opportunities, i.e. a dyke against inequality. This youth, ladies and gentlemen, must also nurture the next process: the Plan of Reconstruction, Transformation and Resilience of the Spanish economy. An ambitious programme that must advance in a new economic model based on quality employment, with trained and qualified people for the productive changes and challenges of digital transformation and the ecological transition that will bring us in the coming years. To this end, the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy participates in the reconstruction fund, as you know, with EUR 1167.5 million. We have the autonomous communities and we will significantly increase the amount of funds transferred to them, so that they can better develop their competences in active employment policies, advancing in a model of shared governance in which the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Social Affairs plays a relevant role. We will strengthen the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, the fundamental instrument to ensure compliance with the law, which will have a budget of EUR 175.8 million, which will allow us to expand the different categories of the inspection activity into 394 professionals. This budget is clearly committed to the functioning of all the agencies under the Ministry, especially the State Public Employment Service, with an increase in their staff and, above all, with a strong investment in their technological transformation. To this end, Chapter 1 of the SEPE will be increased, in order to be able to continue to count 1500 temporary persons already hired and with an investment of 73,6 million euros additional for its digitisation. The budget for the year 2021 will also allow us to continue the scheme for the protection of ERTE while the evolution of the health crisis makes it necessary. We know that maintaining employment is keeping businesses, as we have proposed, and it allows us to guarantee incomes and protect working people. This European root mechanism has solved the toughest of the crisis, and the internal flexibility it provides will undoubtedly be key to continuing to preserve our country's productive and entrepreneurial fabric in the future. To the future is where the budgets that we present today are headed, because they face our structural legacy of unemployment and precariousness and above all because they challenge it, because they encourage us to rebuild that better normality referred to by ILO Director General Guy Ryder: on the fertile land of decent work; because they link economic reactivation to productive transformation, integrating the change of the energy model, digital modernization, reindustrialisation, at the same time as the demographic challenge or the great challenge of the welfare state of the twenty-first century, the society of care. We need to Europeanize our labour policies and match working conditions with the most advanced countries in our environment. We need reforms just as we need investment, and we need this new generation of active employment policies with a common road map at the hands of the autonomous communities and the social partners. In this regard, it is of particular importance - as I have already advanced - to train people in the labour market. Productive transformations, productive transitions and changes in the world of work will require a huge effort in the field of vocational training. Alongside training, these budgets raise the stake in the digitization of public employment services: the use of artificial intelligence for access routes, for profiling of job search and improvement processes; online services accessible from our own mobile phone; more effective personalised services, together with a huge effort in the area of personnel, stabilizing and expanding the essential staffing of career counsellors and counsellors. With this budget, ladies and gentlemen, we are drafting the foundations of a new social contract that our country needs, a social contract that tells us about cohesion, innovation and inclusive growth. A social contract that speaks to us of equity, that overcomes gaps and decompensations, that speaks to us of a job of quality as a necessary soul of this transformation, of transversal social policies that stop the damage that has produced the process of decomposition of middle incomes and that allows social and labor mobility; that makes us more equal, with more confidence, more feminists, with an intergenerational dialogue that heals the wounds of our society and with the commitment of public accounts such as those that we bring to this House today. These accounts link economic and social development to the cooperation of all actors who create value in a society. And that's where the public, the work and the companies get their hands on. Cooperation is key and leadership, the horizon, who is essential. The budget that we present today in this House is the material basis of a shared country project, public accounts that reserve in all its parts a privileged place for hope; that unspeakable hope that Manuel Rivas speaks of in his last book, which is the opposite of resignation and those waste of the past, which we will definitely leave behind together and together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u126	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon again, everyone. Minister, good afternoon. First of all, I must point out that I once again support all the living amendments of the groups in the Joint Group in this section. I would also ask you to excuse me, Minister, because I will use my turn in this section to talk about my book, which is the position of New Canarias in relation to the whole budget because that is how things work in the Joint Group. I was saying this morning that we had reached an agreement - and it was yesterday - on a set of amendments, 11 compromise amendments which were decisive for New Canarias to be satisfied with compliance with the requirements of our economic and fiscal regime. There are a number of issues, all of them relevant to the primary sector, broadband, scholarships for study, waste, sustainable energy, sustainable mobility, etc., that end up assuming, together with the measures to combat poverty, EUR 45 million that are not all we would have wanted, but are a recognition that the precepts of the REF are to be fulfilled. There is a matter that has blocked us for years, a dispute between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands, the famous €516 million in road debt, a result of the Supreme Court ruling that won the Canary Islands in this matter. We have managed to unblock this matter, not without difficulty, I have to say here, so that the Canary Islands will receive EUR 100 million for this year on account of the total debt, which is EUR 516 million. The Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands will now have to consolidate a mechanism to execute the entire sentence throughout this year. There are also some issues that are still under discussion, essentially those related to high-capacity urban transport, which I have previously had the opportunity to talk to Minister Ábalos and which I trust will have a chance of being addressed. There are other types of items that have not been agreed, but are, however, covered by sectoral policies. I mean housing and hydraulic policies. It is clear that the State Housing Plan 2018-2021 incorporates a set of amounts from which the Canary Islands must receive its share, we have record of this. And the same applies to hydraulic policies, as they are incardinated within all the policies developed by the Ministry of Ecological Transition: 183 million euros for the integral cycle of water, waste and sustainable energy. These issues are therefore sufficiently raised and are reasonably satisfactory. To the same extent it is clear - we all know this - that there are important items linked to the European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which we estimate for the Canary Islands between €400 and €500 million. However, there are unagreed issues that will be part of New Canarias' performance over the course of this year and beyond, because we believe that they are fundamental problems that the Canary Islands has and which need to be addressed. First, these are migration-related issues. We have denounced, and will continue to denounce, an absolutely improved and absolutely criticising migration policy on the part of the Government of Spain, as we have pointed out by both active and passive, which is leading to an injury to the rights of migrants and to the interests of the Canary Islands. And within this issue is the question of unaccompanied foreign minors. This is a unique issue, extremely difficult to deal with, in relation to which we will demand the redistribution of these minors in the whole of the autonomous communities to care for them as they should be and material, human and financial resources to respond to this burden that the Canary Islands has, financial, additional and in no case foreseen. We have also tabled three amendments to the joint text, but we have not been able to reach an agreement. I have to mention those related to the need to adapt the fiscal REF to the pandemic situation. The mechanisms of the REF, which are paralysed, including the materialization of the CRP, need to be updated. This has to be expanded. There is another issue related to compensation for the transport of bananas, linked to the actual cost of that operation, which is a matter of pure logic that we hope to achieve. Finally, there is an absolutely crucial issue. We have proposed reductions and bonuses in airport charges to promote connectivity with the Canary Islands. I do not know very well how much higher we have to say that it is absolutely imperative for a set of aggressive policies to substantially improve connectivity with the Canary Islands. This is where the present and the future go. I would not like to tire them out by repeating that tourism - I am going to tire them a little - accounts for 40% of employment in the Canary Islands and 35% of GDP. I don't know if we realize what you're saying with this. The recovery of tourism activity depends to a large extent on helping airlines that are, among other things, in ruin in a substantial part and this is the future of the Canary Islands. This is not the first time that strategic decisions have been made regarding the reduction and unification of airport charges. It does not harm the budget; in any case, it will harm the numbers of AENA, which on the other hand is particularly good at the Canary airports, as you know. If there are airports that generate benefits to AENA, those are the Canary Islands. Therefore, it is time for an effort to be made in this direction because now we are talking about things to eat. You cannot recover the tourist activity if you do not recover the connectivity and you will not recover the connectivity in its entirety if we are not able to facilitate, precisely, the air connections with Canarias. These are matters that are on the table, with which I can assure you that we can look heavy, but I can assure you that we care little. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u128	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Minister, good afternoon too. I will repeat once again what I have said every time I have come up to this rostrum in what is going on in plenary, in these two days, yesterday afternoon and this morning. Citizens - everyone knows it and you, Minister, too - have worked responsibly since the opposition and in view of these budgets, as we have always been doing since the beginning of this pandemic. We have always sought the general interest of the Spaniards and let us say that we have made those words ours from their partner in the Executive, from Minister Montero, the Minister of Finance, who said that in budgetary matters the important thing is what and not with whom, appealing to that responsibility of all parliamentary groups. Well, Citizens, as I said, have tabled a number of very concrete amendments to the Section for Labour. These are amendments that did not seek to increase or move large items of expenditure by this ministry. On the contrary, what we intended with those amendments was to lay the groundwork for something much more important: that the expenditure that this ministry - its ministry, the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy - does on vocational training and active employment policies is well spent; that is, that it has a truly effective destiny and that it fulfils what is theoretically its function. This is only to promote as much as possible vocational training and, in particular, in the case of unemployed persons, to promote their employability and the possibilities for them to gain employment as soon as possible. You have spoken about all the millions of euros earmarked for active employment policies, but there is not a single euro to reform the system of active employment policies. It's not just an obsolete system, but it's proven overwhelmingly that it doesn't work, and you know it, minister. Do you know what the government parties voted for? They voted no. I will highlight to you two of our amendments in this regard that bring the traditional demands of Citizens in this area. The first was an appropriation to finance the implementation once and for all of a system of statistical profiling for unemployed persons; a system that allows guidance workers and other professionals in the public employment services to know the possibilities of integrating a person, taking into account their personal, professional, training and experience characteristics in each sector of the activity. There was no need to invent anything, minister, because the Government, its ministry, already has this programme developed for years and which has been the subject of a pilot project at the time. Therefore, there was no need for another euro, it was only necessary for them to show political will to set it in motion. And what happened? Well, that you are not all responsible that you should be and all that was said by Minister Montero that you have to be in budgetary matters. You have passed the roll by vetoing good amendments just because you came from the opposition. Do you know what your party and the PSOE, the two partners of the coalition government, voted for? They voted no. The second amendment, which was very much related to the previous one, also raised something basic, so basic that we cannot understand how it has not been done for a long time and systematically, not only in active employment policies, but in all policies and, in particular, in active employment policies. It is an item to finance an evaluation of the impact and effectiveness of policies and, in this particular case, of active employment policies. Well, minister, they also voted no. Not to evaluate their policies, that is what this Government has decided. Why, minister? Why does your Government not vote for transparency and for us to know all the expenditure that exists and, above all, that expenditure and investment that you were talking about in active employment policies? We don't know what the result is or how we can improve it. Anyway, that's about work. I also wanted to have a word on social security, because we recently adopted the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. As I said yesterday - and here is the chairman of the Toledo Pact Commission, Mrs Valerio - it has been a milestone that, after five years of work, this House has managed to reach those conclusions on such a transcendental and absolutely crucial issue now with the COVID health crisis. It has been many months of work, effort and dedication and also of handovers by all or almost all of the parliamentary groups in this House. Dialogue, negotiation and consensus that are so disastrous today, although it is never enough to claim that work to carry out any measure and, in this case, concrete measures to improve the lives of all citizens. The House and the parliamentary groups have complied. It is now up to the Government, its Government, the Government of Podemos and the PSOE to introduce reforms, not only in the area of work but also in the area of pensions, in line with those recommendations that we have incorporated into the Toledo Pact. We are on time and play a lot in this area, so I encourage you to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I am going to focus on an amendment that we have developed, a measure that is being controversial these days and that we are proposing together with many other European green forces, which consists of reducing working time to four days a week, to thirty-two hours. We have presented a pilot project of EUR 50 million to study the feasibility of reducing working hours and to accompany companies in their adaptation, without entailing additional costs for them. I have to tell you that I did not understand the Government's opposition, when you yourselves voted in favour of a project like this and that it is under way in the Valencian Generalitat. Why is the reduction of working hours to four days a week good? Firstly, it is a democratic measure. It's not free who doesn't have time. We must have time to be able to participate in politics, to take care of our own and to be able to reconcile and, ultimately, to be able to be a citizen and deal with public affairs. Aristotle already said that only those who have time can think politically and democracy, in short, requires that ordinary people have time. Life can't just go from home to work and from work to home. Secondly, it is a green measure. By reducing displacement, we reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Quieter lives are less polluting lives. Thirdly, it is a health measure. We live in societies that are sick of stress, without time to take care of what we eat, without time to take care of our own, with many people having to take pills to endure the rhythm, with many people to whom, simply the rhythm of life surpasses it. We have to slow down the pace to live better. Finally, it is an economic measure. We must abandon an obsolete mentality, which is fixed only on the number of hours worked. The key to wealth generation is productivity. Look, in 1850, in Spain we worked eleven hours, on average, and in 2015 we worked eight hours, on average, and today the wealth is eight times greater. More wealth, working less. The key is productivity. It is clear that this is a model of the future, of the ecological transition, of the commitment to innovation and of the sharing of work in order to generate more employment. There may be many who continue to distrust and say that if this were done, the economy would sink, that it would be impossible. I don't say his brothers-in-law, but his political and economic ancestors two centuries ago said that the economy would sink if child labour was banned, and it didn't sink. Then, a century ago, they said that the economy was going to sink when the eight hours of work were approved, and not only did it not sink, but that the workers' struggle was an incentive for economic development and innovation. There may be someone who tells us, in good faith, that precisely now is not the time. Well, we think exactly the opposite. Precisely, in reconstruction, it is time to change the model, bet on innovation and share the work to generate employment. Finally, with fewer readings and more cynicism, there have been those who have told us that this is the definitive model to stimulate vagrancy. We affirm that this is a model for freeing time, but that, in fact, it does not have to be a good model for everyone. During this budgetary procedure we were able to see the enormous work of your ladies and gentlemen from VOX by submitting zero amendments to the general budget. Indeed, a working day of thirty-two hours a week would already be a brutal increase in the workload for VOX Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u133	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Minister. Firstly, you know in advance that the Democratic Party will vote in favour of these budgets. Therefore, in my first speech in this budget debate, it is up to me to highlight the meaning of the agreement, the sense of making policy or the sense of reaching points of agreement from distant positions, and also to highlight the change in budgets, the paradigm shift of previous budgets that have completely lapsed, made entirely on the basis of assumptions that no longer respond to the current reality, and it was more necessary than ever to bring forward new budgets, adapted to the reality of the pandemic, adapted to the challenges facing us this year and next year. Let me also take these minutes to remind you that on 31 January the ERTE win. You will remember my insistence and that of my colleague Ferran Bel on June 30 or September 30, and it is that you are specialized in rushing the deadline to renew the ERTE. These budgets were a good opportunity to extend the extension of the ERTE to 31 January and not to be here again at the last minute. But in detail in the amendments tabled, we did have some amendments that we think are interesting. It was the relative to change a little the configuration of job maintenance. The retention of employment clause that was imposed throughout the regulation of ERTE, the force majeure, says that all exemptions with surcharges and interest will have to be returned. This prediction, logical in a scenario where people would have been home for fifteen days and then returned to work, we believe that it has been completely out of date as the pandemic has lasted much longer and the cause has lasted much longer. Therefore, imagine a scenario of a company with two hundred workers who, by firing one to adjust the staff to the current reality, have to return all the contributions, all the charges and all the interests of that period in which they were in ERTE. We believed that a more flexible job maintenance based on billing levels or other elements could be a much more useful tool. Another amendment which we also considered interesting and which will allow me to defend is the one relating to the world of disability, the possibility of individualizing the endowment given to all special employment centres, the creation of a work placement programme for persons with disabilities in this protected market, and therefore to have a different treatment which, surely, according to the recently adopted non-law proposal, could also have a subsidy from special work centres as an open and expandable credit, so that it could always be possible to meet this claim. However, these are some of the amendments that we have tabled in the area of work, but let me also say, as a Member of Parliament for the Barcelona demarcation, that we consider these amendments to be important, but we also consider some of the successes achieved in other amendments to be very important: the increase in aid for the Manresa-Lleida railway line; all the research being promoted on the university campus in Igualada and the 4DHealth Centre, support for entities and municipalities. To take forward projects of entities and projects of municipalities is also a good way to generate employment, and especially in Barcelona city to take forward or support those cultural entities - museums, foundations - that have seen their activity closed during these times, or an element as important as the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, located in the same 22@ of the city, and that gives employment and future employment to all those who pass through the university remotely. In the end our assessment is positive in budgets that could be better, but that certainly allow us to move a little further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u134	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u135	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, entrepreneurs, workers, self-employed people, young people and pensioners should not be seeing today as 1600 proposals that speak of them have been rejected, as an unopened letter, by the simple fact that it is the People's Party who presents them. Today the Spaniards should look at the budget document and feel that they have less concerns than before they know it. Today you should not be waiting for the approval of these budgets, which are endorsed and supported by the ETA heirs, but we should also not be seeing how the appointments to process SEPE aid and benefits are sold on the black market, more expensive than the tickets to see the Rollings, because you have again created Spain to spoil it. Minister, your budgets make it clear how proud you are that today in Spain there are six million people in receipt of a benefit or subsidy, and I do not invent it, they are your words. And speaking of words, there are some that define this government very well. Although the authorship outside of a president of the United States and the context of a few decades ago, it seems that Ronald Reagan referred to you when he said those famous words. His Government's vision of the economy could be summed up in a few short sentences: if it moves, tax it. If it keeps moving, regulate it. And if he stops moving, subsidize him. Because you are turning this country into a country of subsidized people, and you believe that by turning us into a country of subsidized people, you will turn Spain into a country of silent people. I tell you to give up all hope, that if you can't silence your terrorist partners, the Spaniards won't shut us up anymore. [[Applauds]] In June of this year, two years of Pedro Sánchez's arrival in the government had already been completed. Look, we already knew how well the machine of manufacture stops every time it governs the Socialist Party, but today, now that you are pushing labor policies with the toxic energy of your communist, independence and borrok partners, the machine produces much more unemployment and much faster. I would ask you to take some time, between so much auto-bombing and political marketing, and take a look at the data: today there are 650,000 more unemployed and 91 000 companies less than a year ago; 740 000 workers are on ERTE in November and do not know if they will be able to return to their jobs; there are more than a million and a half self-employed people who are still on the loose and 100 000 young people and 330,000 women have lost their jobs in the past year. That is why I say to you: get to work, because your ministry has thrown away the towel before it begins. Despite the fact that they have the resources and the means to implement the best social policy, which is to create employment, this government has surrendered and says and promises that it will create 800,000 jobs, thanks to European funds, until 2023. In other words, you promise to create the same level of employment that you have lost this year in three years. And they promise 800,000 jobs, Minister, a magic figure that becomes tragic every time they rule the left in this country, because Felipe González already did, promised those same 800,000 jobs, and what he created was 1,430,000 unemployed. Mr Zapatero went further, promised full employment, and if he did, he got full unemployment by sending more than 3 million Spaniards to unemployment. And today Sánchez returns with that promise of 800,000 jobs, when he has already sent 650,000 Spaniards to unemployment in the last year. You are the Black Friday of governments, there is nothing that is not for sale: educational freedom, the Castilian, the independence of Catalonia, the self-determination of the Basque Country and even the fiscal autonomy of the autonomous communities. In short, they are selling out the dignity of our country. I see, Minister, that you have become a great Marian devotee, who takes'san ERTE' every time there is a drought of employment. I will strengthen that faith that you have in reminding you that it was the People's Party that developed the figure of the ERTE in labor reform, that reform that you so demonize, but that managed to create about three million jobs from the worst moment of the crisis. I have to admit, we don't know as much about chemistry as Mr. Otegi, but we do about mathematics. [[Applauds]] We get jobs back, not once, but twice, and we will do so again, and we will do so with a youth employment assistance fund, with measures to boost the Dual FP, the entrepreneurship and the return of young talent to our country, which this Government is rejecting today. And we're going to turn to the destruction of self-employment with proposals that give them oxygen and take the rope out of their necks. And we will reiterate the proposals that you veto, proposals such as: zero activity and income, zero taxes and contributions. And we are going to turn to those employment policies in those autonomous communities where unemployment rates are higher, with territorial plans to create more and better employment in each of these autonomous communities; a measure that you and your Government veto today, but which a few years ago, when you were occupying the opposition bench, presented those same territorial plans. And it's that, honestly, I don't know if you're the caste anymore, but what you are is the sect. And, finally, Minister, I would ask you, if you can still look the Spanish in the face, to stop us from seeing as guinea pigs on which to experience all the ways of ruining a country, because that is what your Government and these budgets are doing to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u136	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u137	Mr. President, thank you very much. Minister, on the first occasion when we had the opportunity to exchange views, in the face of your exulting - as today - foresight of great and prompt transformations, where you lit an idyllic Spain in which you would soon end this endemic evil that plagues us, unemployment in all modalities, places and ages, you will remember that I told you that the Ministry of Labour was not an island in the Government, but that it was part of a collective project, an important piece in the Executive, that could not touch your own melody without being mediated by a score in all the ministries, led by the President of the Government. Well, after almost a year of government, it is true that in exceptional circumstances, their eden will have to be extended; and with these budgets no doubt more. Let's see. The photograph of section 19 that we are dealing with, of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, in its budget representation, is the faithful image of the collective failure of the management of a State; I would say more, the effigy of a humiliated citizenship. The figures that appear in it are nothing more than the balance sheet, the fixed picture of a great national frustration. The amount earmarked for unemployment benefits in all its aspects, amounting to EUR 25 billion, almost EUR 8 billion more than in the past year, is the exact watermark of a failed model that requires major reforms, and not precisely in the sense that the Government suggests with the approval of these budgets, which continue to calm down to any structural reform that stimulates business growth and thus job creation, but that its policy is suicidally directed towards a regulatory, rigid and planned excess on economic and tax matters, which nullifies any expectation of employment recovery. And beyond the figures that we have all dispelled and, of course, on which we did not want to entangle ourselves by becoming participants in a pastry or paripé that has been cooking in the offices, through unique agreements, it is worth remembering where we are at unemployment rates. According to figures in the 251.M programme, the unemployment rate for 2021 is expected to be 16.9%, almost 17%. And, of course, compared to unemployment rates in the euro area, one is blushing; at the end of the third quarter, the average unemployment rate in the euro area was 8.3%, the highest being Greece with 16.8%, and Spain with 16.5%, as the highest rates in Europe. It is the finding of a failure in the management of the state's destinations, although it is true that in 2012 with Mr Rajoy the unemployment rate was 26,09 %, in view of the inheritance received, and that it fell to 15,25 % in 2018, when Mr Sánchez occupied power, kindly yielded by the People's Party in a useless vandal of parliamentary galanura, with bag included, and from there until now, with 3,722,000 unemployed, amen - as has been said here a moment ago - of more than 700,000 citizens in ERTE, whose fate we will see what will be. And what happens in the rest of the countries? In the Czech Republic, the unemployment rate is 2.8%; in Poland, the bad rate is 3.1%; in Hungary, the other bad rate is 4.4%; for example, in Portugal, 7.7%; in France, 7.9%; in Italy, chaotic Italy, 9.6% and then only Lithuania, with 9.8%, to Spain with 16.5%. A national failure. In this short space of time I would like to point out a number of issues relating to active policies, which you have also mentioned, and which certainly amount to EUR 6482 million, i.e. almost 36% more than in the previous budget, and we will not deny our concern as to how these resources can be used - it has also been said - which are deferred to the Autonomous Communities, given the background that we all have. And, of course, I would like to mention this obsession with control, with an increase of almost EUR 15 million in programme 291.A, concerning inspection and control, intended for incentives to the performance of the Labour Inspectorate. We will see if that is going to be the payment to what Mr Alberto Rodríguez, spokesman for the United Nations Podemos, has mentioned on numerous occasions: to crucify the entrepreneur. Let us hope that the incentive is for the well done, efficient and effective treatment, and it is not due to the payment of dues for sanctions. We were told yesterday by Mr Uriarte, also from United We can, that we were enemies of the public. I say this to you with all the parliamentary courtesy: you're wrong, we're not. [[Applauds]] But, of course, we believe in the public sphere, in that which is effective, just, necessary, subsidiary, which preserves market freedom, economic growth and equal opportunities, but not in which it is supported by budgets aimed at the modeling of a Spain of subsidized citizens, at the time captive of an intervened and programmed economy. In short, it is a further step towards the recognized, already without compromises, regime change, quite the contrary to what Spain needs today for the creation of decent employment, and to harbour healthy expectations for the future for all Spaniards of any age, class, civil neighborhood or condition. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u138	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u139	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. The truth is that, listening to some intervention, I would say that some live in another dimension, in another reality, in another world, because, Mr Movellán, what the Spaniards should not see today is how the People's Party votes against pensions being raised; what the Spaniards should not see today is how you vote against increasing health resources by 70%; what the Spaniards should not and do not deserve to see today is how the People's Party votes against increasing funds for R & D and innovation by 75%. [[applause]] The truth is that his eccentricity at first was funny, but he's already scared. Where is the word COVID in your interventions, or the word pandemic, or the word uncertainty? The People's Party goes up here to give lessons with twenty-first-century manuals, with social media troll arguments and with bad drool, because an entire opposition leader party is spraying the ridiculous European when, at a time like this, it's just tearing down, breaking up, passing through, escaping or forcing reality. And, as it may seem, this is not the Vetusta Morla song, as much as you do when you have to manage the work policy has a lot to do with the title of that song, save whoever you can. [[Applauds]] They are not in what the workers expect of a government; they have no alternative, they offer nothing to the Spaniards, they have doubts, of course they do, they have insecurities and fears because of this global pandemic, but you, nothing at all; you are today nothing: nothing are, nothing have, nothing offer and nothing like. You are more comfortable in legislating to impose labour reforms in solitude, while this government reinforces workers' rights and the productive system from concertation and social dialogue. They are a party that is going to vote against an increase of 22% in employment promotion funds to end unemployment and precariousness, to ensure decent jobs, to provide adequate training and social and labour protection. The People's and Citizens' Party prefers that there be 6 billion euros less for young people, women, over forty-five years of age, and also to give employment to self-employed workers. [[Applauds]] They do not like accounts that will deploy active employment policies that will generate quality work, and more and better programmes to facilitate access to employment, with a 35% increase. They are accounts that give an important boost to self-employment and the social economy, with an increase of up to 39%, but this is not the case either. We already know that a few months ago here they voted against the improvements for the self-employed, for that million and a half self-employed who have indeed felt protected by this Government. These accounts want to protect unemployed people more and better, to finance rights by strengthening coverage and contributory benefits with a 20% increase. I know they don't like it. In my land, Castilla y León, when from the Government of Spain the workers in ERTE already have in their pocket 840 million euros, the Junta de Castilla y León auctions and draws labor rights. ERTE complements today have left four out of five ERTE workers in Castile and León. [[Applauds]] They are also not interested in increasing unemployment protection so that no one will be left behind with this 5% increase in Iprem after many years of freezing. They do not like that with these accounts they want to end a raquitico SEPE that we inherited from their management, and that has posed many problems in the management of these last months, which have been solved thanks to the professionalism of their public workers. Of course, they do not share it; when you ruled, you mistreated the Public Employment Service workers and lost two thousand people in your management time. [[Applauds]] I understand why they don't like these accounts. Now that you have become indomitable and disobedient to the law, independent of democracy, now that you are going through Spain showing irresponsible that you are going to blow up the laws passed in this Parliament, that is why you do not like these budgets either, because with them you are going to guarantee compliance with the law thanks to the strengthening of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, with a 20% increase. In short, they are extraordinary accounts at an extraordinary time and under extraordinarily complicated conditions; accounts of a ministry that respond to three clear objectives. First of all, the challenges of change that the labour market demands, addicted to precariousness and temporaryity. Secondly, a goal that the Spaniards see clearly and feel clearly in their pocket, which is to guarantee income and liquidity to create that safety net that reaches as many as possible for as long as it takes. Thirdly, to rethink the model of a productive and educational country, to speak more and to legislate on work and technology, on work and care, on strategic vocational training for Spanish workers. I would also like to point out that this crisis that you are obviating, in addition to updating us in digitalisation and talking to us about other gaps such as digital, has made it clear to us - and these budgets contain it - that human work is absolutely essential, that our well-being is in the hands of care: collecting garbage, supplying supermarkets, the work of health workers or domestic workers has been shown to be essential jobs, and that a strong feminization, a strong temporality and their low wages have also come to light. There are two messages that do appear in these accounts. It is firmly committed to bridging the wage gap, reducing temporality and, above all, to training more professionals for care, both men and women. [[Applauds]] So we live, it is true - and to conclude - dramatic moments, accounts at a difficult time, but also with some positive profile, for example in relation to the need for a strong welfare state. This need is now being rewritten, after a time when its economic viability was being discussed. COVID has put on the table the importance of a welfare state whose centre is health, prevention against unemployment and prevention against poverty. That is where this government is, that is where citizens are aware of the complex and highly uncertain context in which we live, and you are not. Because there are three things in life, already to finish, that once they happen no longer come back. The first is time; the second is words - by the way, some of yours are already too ashamed - and thirdly, opportunities. Maybe this is the last one for them to prove if they're up to the standards of a citizen who knows we're gonna be okay with this if we go out together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u140	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 20, Industry, Trade and Tourism We continue with the debate in section 20. Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u141	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I stand before the plenary of the Congress of Deputies to defend the general lines of the 2021 State General Budgets Bill in section 20, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism. But before I enter the budget guidelines and figures, I would like to refer briefly to the actions of the Government since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our priority has been to protect the health of the population and minimize its impact on the economy and society. And we are doing so by relying on the strength of dialogue, consensus and unity. Since the beginning of the global health crisis, the Government has been responding decisively and ambitiously, adopting successive packages of measures in the economic, labour and social fields, through shock plans, first, and then, with recovery plans in strategic sectors such as automotive, tourism and transport, which have enabled us to maintain a solid basis for better economic recovery. All the measures taken have been effective, because they have cushioned the negative impact of the pandemic on economic activity and employment, but also on society as a whole. However, the priority for the Government is to continue to take all necessary support and stimulus measures as long as the pandemic lasts, in order to avoid a structural deterioration of our productive tissue that puts recovery at risk. Given the high uncertainty surrounding the evolution of the pandemic, the announcement about the effectiveness of vaccines has undoubtedly led to a light at the end of the tunnel. Last week, as you know, the Council of Ministers approved the vaccination schedule that gives us additional certainty in this area, because if something has made clear to us this pandemic is that health and economy go hand in hand, so any progress towards the end of the pandemic will of course also mean progress towards consolidating economic recovery and better expectations for the future. All this, ladies and gentlemen, only reinforces the need to adopt a new budget that is stable for the legislature, that is expansive to support recovery, and that provides us with the tools and resources necessary to be able to respond to these uncertainties, following a solid and prompt economic recovery. That is why these budgets are so important not only to underpin recovery, but also to lay the foundations for the transformation into our economic model towards a more balanced, more inclusive, more sustainable and more digital model. That is why our ministry, the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, plays a very important role as an instrument for change, according to the three sectoral areas that I have the honour to lead. In this case, industry, trade and tourism not only have a direct impact on economic growth, but are also intensive in terms of employment. I now go on to detail the ministry's budget for 2021, which amounts to 4860 million euros, representing an increase of 2068 million euros, 74% more than the 2018 extended budget. I would like to point out that the non-financial budget has increased by 338 %, to EUR 2396 million, which represents 49 % of the total budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the largest public budget in history to directly support the revival of the three areas of my competence, industry, trade and tourism. As you know, the budget incorporates the investments and reforms linked to the recovery and resilience mechanism provided by the European Union. Next, I will explain to you the main areas of spending and the key lines of the ministry, and I will start by talking about the tourism sector. In tourism, the allocation of allocations is provided with a budget of EUR 1350 million for 2021, an increase of EUR 037 million, 331% compared to the 2018 extended budget. Our priority is that Spain remains the most competitive country in the world in terms of tourism and the budget for 2021 is undoubtedly an instrument to advance in the revival of the tourism sector, but also to address the transformation of our tourism model towards a more sustainable, digital, accessible, inclusive and secure model. In the area of sustainability, we will mobilise €683 million in tourism sustainability plans in destination. Through these plans we want to promote a comprehensive recovery of the pioneer destinations and a strategic transformation of the interior urban destinations, as a fundamental complement to our tourist offer. This investment will certainly allow our destinations to compete with better instruments and with higher quality in an increasingly demanding international market. These plans are an example of how we are able to be more effective from public-private collaboration and how tourism is to be, and is, an example of unity. Another area of action in tourism will be digitisation. An allocation of EUR 64 million is planned to enhance the smart tourist destination model and to promote innovation and knowledge in tourism, with the aim of improving our tourist information and intelligence system. A €71 million digital transformation and innovation plan for tourism companies will also be promoted. In short, we are putting a public investment for the next fiscal year of 135 million euros to boost the digitization and intelligence of our tourism model, and thus remain, as I said, leaders in competitiveness. In the area of trade, by 2021 the budget amounts to 524 million euros and represents an increase of almost 1 billion regarding the extended budget of 2018. We will continue to support proximity trade in its recovery from the pandemic and, over the course of 2021, we will promote competitiveness, innovation and the use of new technologies by the commercial sector, promoting their adaptation to new consumption habits and improving the management of their business model, paying particular attention to the SMEs and micro-SMEs of proximity trade. EUR 101 million will be allocated for the modernisation of municipal markets, commercial areas, non-sedentary sales markets and short marketing channels, as well as for the strengthening of commercial activity in areas of tourist influx. We will maintain the agreement with the Spanish Chamber of Commerce to develop the comprehensive plan to support the competitiveness of retail trade, with more than 2 million euros. Another 5 million will go towards the rehabilitation of rural areas, with a special emphasis on addressing the demographic challenge and EUR 500 000 will go to a connected trading platform. In addition, we will strengthen the recognition of the commercial sector through the various awards we award, the small trader's awards, for commercial development and business modernization; the non-profit merchants' awards, for the creation and development of open commercial centres or the prizes for the contest of technological ideas for retail trade. They are a recognition to make visible a trade that is undoubtedly part of our economic activity. A priority for the Government will continue to be the continued momentum towards a greater and better presence of Spanish companies in international markets. In this area, EUR 83 million in transfers to ICEX, including market opening programmes, amounting to EUR 15 million in 2021, include foreign investment in R & D & I activities through the co-financing of EUR 10 million by ICEX-Invest in Spain and the creation of a line for financing technical assistance from the EIF. It is a question of responding to recurrent demand from the private sector and will also be particularly important for the Horizon Africa Strategy. In the area of industry and SMEs, the budget proposal amounts to a total of 2931 million and represents an increase of 927 million over the 2018 extended budget. The Government's priority is to increase the weight of industry in our economy with the conviction that it is a key element for improving our productive model, but also for adapting it to technological and sustainable change, making a decisive contribution to job creation. In 2021, the main developments in the industrial budget are as follows: we will create the fund to support productive industrial investment, with a budget of EUR 600 million to finance industrial investment projects that contribute to strengthening industrial development, strengthening competitiveness in industrial enterprises and maintaining industrial capacities throughout the national territory. We are going to launch a new programme for the industrial transition, with EUR 110 million, and we are going to strengthen the support for the large electro-intensive industry with more than EUR 300 million. The industrial entrepreneurship support programme, with 151 million, strategic development projects in priority industrial sectors and actions for the digital transformation of the industry with 160 million euros, or pioneering projects in technological, electrical, battery and storage innovation and technologies linked to green hydrogen, which will mobilise public investment of 200 million euros. We are also aware that SMEs and entrepreneurs are key players in our economic fabric. Our priority is to improve the environment in which it operates, removing barriers and regulations, improving access to finance, seeking to increase its size, in particular the transition of small and medium-sized enterprises, supporting the search for new markets abroad or encouraging innovation and entrepreneurship. In this area of small and medium-sized enterprises, the refinancing of the guarantees granted by the Mutual Guarantee Society to self-employed persons and SMEs is maintained through a grant to the Spanish Company of Reaffirmation, Cersa, of 123 million euros. Also focused on entrepreneurs is enhanced the granting of loans through the National Innovation Company, Enisa, endowed with 98.5 million euros of budget. And finally, we are going to launch the Spain Entrepreneur Nation Strategy, whose objectives are to promote structural change towards a more entrepreneurial economic model in all sectors, to promote the entrepreneurship and growth of SMEs, to support the development of entrepreneurial capacities and to position Spain as an attractive country for entrepreneurship. I would like to conclude this presentation of the main programmes of section 20 of the 2021 General Budgets, corresponding to the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, with one final reflection. We are faced with budgets that are, in addition to being necessary, essential; essential for the revival of our economy, essential for modernizing our productive model and, ultimately, essential for making our economy a more sustainable, digital, inclusive and resilient economy. From the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism we will prioritize industrial projects for digitization and technological innovation, the support to the large electrointensive industry, the modernization of commercial and rural trade areas, the support for the digitization and sustainability of the tourism sector and the modernization of areas of tourist influx, not to mention the support to SMEs and their internationalization. We have a historic opportunity with the European Recovery and Resilience Mechanism to address these transformations in the coming years and these budgets are clearly geared to channeling these European funds efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen, public-private collaboration must be the fundamental tool in implementing this country project, so the mechanisms for collaboration must be as agile and efficient as possible. A task of this magnitude cannot be carried out without the cooperation of companies, workers, autonomous communities, local authorities and parliamentary groups. The sooner the 2021 General State Budgets are approved, the sooner we can disburse the public resources needed to mobilize private investment in strategic projects. Although there are many uncertainties, we certainly have reasons for confidence. We know that to give certainty we have to effectively control the pandemic, we have to continue to protect our productive and social fabric, but also to approve these budgets will allow us to implement the great transformations that this country needs. I'm done. If this draft budget comes forward, we will certainly launch an image of confidence and stability abroad that will result in the strength and credibility of Spain. That is why I thank the parliamentary groups that have given their support to these budgets for their commitment and I appeal to the other groups to support with their vote these budgets that will allow us to support the recovery, but above all to transform our productive model and modernise our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] The Vice-President : Thank you very much. [[Rodriguez Gómez de Celis]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as my fellow Members have done, I support all our amendments and those of the Joint Parliamentary Group as a whole which have been kept alive in this section and, if necessary, in the rest of the sections. It is a coincidence that today, twenty years ago, on 29 November 2000, just as I say twenty years ago, the citizenship of the province of Teruel unanimously seconded a general unemployment of an entire province for socio-territorial reasons, the first time that a province stopped for a non-working but socio-territorial reason. The seed of that day is the one that brought us to this rostrum. Teruel needed a general stoppage twenty years ago precisely because of the lack of sensitivity in general budgets after presenting to this Congress more than 100 000 signatures in a population of 135 000 people, that is 75% of the population, in order for the budgets of that year to cover the situation of Teruel and to include some of its needs and demands. The general stoppage was necessary and reflected by the press as well as numerous subsequent demonstrations in order to achieve an objective such as, for example, the Mudéjar motorway and stop being the only Spanish province without a single kilometer of motorway. After eight years of construction, the highway was completed and with it major investments in the province. Since that year, promises and many frustrated projects, such as the transfer of the Cantábrico-Mediterraneo railway, the museum projects and not a single kilometer of highway have been built despite having nothing less than three projects to be carried out in order to get out of isolation and to lindare, as we do, with six provinces with Zaragoza, with Guadalajara, with Cuenca, with Valencia, with Castellón and with Tarragona, but there are only connections in worthy conditions in two of them, which precisely connects the highway. I will recall some of the points of the manifesto read twenty years ago in the squares and in the streets of the towns and small towns full of excited citizenship that, expressing their unity and their longings, claimed forgotten rights and called for a future in which to believe while they rehearsed the bells of all the bells of the province of Turin. The manifesto of 29 November 2020 called for: First, safe and fast rail transport; second, 21st century road communications; third, effective assistance to the emergency of health transport; fourth, integrated mental health care in the National Health System and in accordance with the law; fifth, plans to maintain employment in the province and prevent its progressive depopulation due to lack of a future; and sixth, quality education and higher university projection. [[shows the manifest]] All this remains in force today and, twenty years later, almost nothing has been accomplished. After that general strike, deputy José Antonio Labordeta presented an inquiry right here in this Congress of Deputies. Twenty years have passed, as I say, but few things have changed and proof of this is that depopulation continues to advance and we are increasingly less and more ageing. We hope that the pace of change for Teruel, for Aragon and for emptied Spain can be accelerated. Paraphrase what we said then, ladies and gentlemen, 'Teruel and emptied Spain exist, forgive the troubles'. For decades the General Budgets of the State have obviated a problem that is increasingly evident: the socio-territorial effects of the unbalanced distribution of investments, of economic activity, of infrastructure, of development in Spain, with the final result of the depopulation of many of its territories, an economic, social, demographic, technological gap, of educational services. Finally, a difference between citizens that we should be equal and that is determined by the place of residence, which marks personal opportunities and entrepreneurship. A gap of inequality that has been growing at the expense of the economic and technological transformations of industrialization and in parallel to the oblivion, if not to the uncertainty, of the policies of the state, rickish for us, for those territories that no longer matter, that is, for the rural environment and the provinces of the interior, which have shaped what we have called emptied Spain. As you know, in the province of Teruel, which also suffers from historical isolation due to the lack of transport infrastructure, the intensity of these problems is particularly acute. To correct the territorial imbalances and face depopulation, a large part of Spanish society and more and more political forces, as seen in this Congress, value the need to implement policies that bet on social and territorial cohesion and, therefore, to begin to reduce what separates us as equal before the law, because being few should not diminish rights. It will therefore be the work of the Government and Congress to address such a broad set of problems, with such an important milestone, by carrying out sustained parliamentary action over time, based on a combination of analysis of reality, contact with citizens, study of scientific reports, evaluation of applied policies, critical work and activation of innovative initiatives. Many scientists and professionals have already worked to provide the diagnosis - we can say that the academy has contributed its role - and to guide policies against depopulation it will be very useful for the Ministry of Universities and the General Secretariat for the Demographic Challenge to lead, for example, the first European meeting of policies against depopulation proposed in one of our amendments. As an example of these policies for the dynamism of unpopulated areas we have submitted proposals to the general budgets for 2021 to the Section for Industry and Tourism. On the basis of the criteria of endogenous development for the development of tourism, in order to promote areas affected by depopulation, we make two proposals. One of them is the construction of a thalassotherapy center - already started -, that is, a spa, that would boost quality tourism in the south of the province, in Manzaneda, supported by the natural resource and with the expansion of a limited offer when the atony of the market is as strong as in this case. A second project ordered around the historical heritage of Daroca, province of Zaragoza and very close to that of Teruel, in the context of a region in a situation of depopulation, to promote there a national tourist destination. In Daroca all the conditions of philosophy that national paradors have historically defended are embodied. There is an exceptional historical case, declared historical-artistic complex in 1968, it is well of cultural interest and there are architectural values in the buildings to be protected, with which it should be easily operable. And, finally, we have introduced a first-class cultural project: the recovery of the National Ethnography Museum, an ancient project - it has been more than ten years between the general budget items, both with the administration of the People's Party and with that of the Socialist Party - which has not been uprooted. We intend to add the economic capacity of the tourism sector with the items available in the culture movement. It is a very long-range scientific and pedagogical project and an almost symbolic example of what happens to Teruel. It is a project approved in 2019.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u143	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u144	It's approved, it's published, and then it's not done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u145	Thank you very much. We moved on to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u146	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism brings together the sectors that most contribute to our gross domestic product, so it could be said that it is one of the most important in the area of budgets. Well, at this point we can say that the budget allocation for the year 2021 is totally inadequate. Today we were aware of the news that the tourism sector has fallen back thirty years, at 1990 levels, after leaving 43 billion in revenue in just nine months. We suffered the worst recession in the entire OECD after Argentina. And what do you propose to us? Rufian and Otegi's accounts, which we can't afford. You will understand that our concern is more terror than anything else. It seems incredible to me that when this government established the axes for the distribution of aid for recovery and resilience, they were not explicitly one of the axes that support them in the sectors of this ministry. It also draws our attention, Minister, to the scant use of the EUR 1289 million from this mechanism in the industrial sphere. There is little accounting for 233 million for industry and most are capital transfers and 7.5 million euros for the School of Industrial Organisation and support for SMEs. But let's talk about industry. As already discussed in the Committee on Budgets, there are no large items in this draft budget designed to solve the industrial problems of this country. Today we have at least two industrial sectors in vilo, automotive and the electro-intensive industry. The car sector has been experiencing major setbacks. There has been a drop in sales and registrations of tourism and all-terrainers of 21% only in October. In the cumulative year, 37% less has been marketed than in 2019. It should be remembered that the car is the country's first relatively heavy industry, in jobs and exports. In recent years, far from being enhanced, this sector has suffered, due to improvisations and out-of-place declarations by Minister Ribera, definitive legal uncertainty. As a result, we have had to regret the closure of factories in our country and it is not ruled out that there are further closures. The automotive industry has no presence in these General State Budgets. Nothing. It has been decided to set aside the Renovation Plan in these General State Budgets and no further measures are envisaged in this area. What is the Government's response to this prospect? To increase the registration tax by 2020 without considering alternatives such as those that we have defended several parliamentary groups in these budgets. The solution had it on the table, as in so many other matters. We held his hand and they didn't even consider it. It is true that they also had the invaluable help of VOX, which, as they were absent from the vote on the amendments in the Commission, led to these increases being confirmed. [[Rumors]] On the other hand, we all know the reality of the electro-intensive industry, which has been experiencing several problems since the end of 2018 and is in a critical state. It is precisely since that date that the Socialist Government, with the same minister and the same president, has promised that the electro-intensive status that must alleviate the situation in the sector would come. Again, we must continue to regret the fact that this status is not yet available and that, to top it off, the electro-intensive industry, as well as the rest of the industries, is receiving a cut in the compensation for CO2 emission allowance costs. Is this the Government's understanding of solving the industrial problems of this country? Let's talk about tourism. There's little to say here. Well, yes, I've been listening to the minister for months that she's been preparing a big rescue plan for tourism and hospitality. It always turns to the same numbers it brings to this House, but it is not enough, Minister, it is not. Does it really mean that the temporary fall in VAT from tourism to 4% is not good for the sector and, indirectly, for the State? Of course, you'd rather help the state than help the sector. To more consumption, more income, even if the income is reduced because the quota has been reduced. I cannot understand that in a crisis like this, where the tourism sector and the hotelmaker foresees a loss of 95 billion in 2020, they do not deserve a measure like the one we are presenting. I cannot understand that they are not looking forward to or supporting amendments to the tourism sector, such as the creation of a 20 billion-dollar fund lost to tourism and hospitality companies. He's a lifeguard, minister, direct aid. If its tourism plan is not accompanied by direct aid, it will leave the sector to die; there will be no sector to digitise and no sector to promote. If we talk about trade, it's even more serious. It is a sector formed largely by self-employed and small businesses, and its Government has not left alive nor a direct amendment to these headings, but also the indirect ones that we have presented to the joint venture, so that they have a lifesaver to hold onto and not sink into. What do you have against tourism, against the self-employed, the hoteliers, the merchants, who refuse to help you at times like this? But direct help, real help, a lifesaver. This item is made with prejudice: that if tourism does not bring added value, as the Minister of Consumer Affairs says; that if they do not want to benefit businesses, that the State has to benefit; that if the hospitality does not comply. We play a lot, minister, as in order to be with prejudices, politicians and sectarianism. We've played millions of jobs. We're still on time. We have living amendments. We can get aid for the tourism sector, for industry, for hospitality and for trade. It's now or never, Minister. We are still in time and they are in time to accept our amendments. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u147	Thank you. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, we start from the fact that well-targeted budgets can be an important instrument for reactivation and economic and social development. To begin with, we know that public work, beyond contributing to building future development and well-being, also contributes to creating jobs in the present. That is why we regret that the Spanish Government is punishing Galicia in these budgets with the lowest investment in seventeen years, worsening the last of the People's Party, precisely when we are in front of expansive accounts and when this economic revival and job creation are most necessary. In any case, the BNG has tabled amendments in this and other sections to move in that direction. For example, in order to implement an economic and industrial recovery plan for the region of Vigo, the largest city of Galicia, punishable by the industrial crisis, one of its main economic engines; a rescue plan for the hotel industry, the self-employed and the small business of Galicia, and one specifically aimed at rescuing the cultural sector. These are sectors that are all suffering very intensely from the consequences of the social and economic crisis caused by the health emergency. We sincerely believe that the Government must listen to the voice of these sectors, which, at least in my country, are mobilizing to call for rescue plans. The way to do this, in our view, is to study and accept the amendments proposed by the BNG in that direction. In addition, we propose that the ecological transition be carried out with social justice, especially with regard to the closure of the Meirama thermal power plant and the announced As Pontes. That is why we are putting forward amendments for an ecopark in As Pontes, for the urbanization of 800 000 square meters, with the capacity to house new businesses and economic activities that absorb lost jobs and can create new jobs, and also to install an R & D & i centre in relation to energy storage, undoubtedly one of the challenges of the immediate future. Similarly, we propose a development plan for Cerceda, to alleviate the effects of the closure of the Meirama plant. And we understand that it is essential to transform Navantia, in the Ferrol region, into an integral industrial complex capable of optimizing its potential and ensuring that it has sufficient capacity to accommodate also in conditions of competitiveness not only economic, but especially technological civil shipbuilding and other complementary industrial activities. It should be remembered that Navantia is a public entity and has great responsibility in the economic decline of the Ferrol region, especially by the veto on civil shipbuilding and the confinement for too many years, which must end, to military shipbuilding. On the other hand, we propose to provide in the budgets a specific item that will make it possible to deal decisively with a stable and lasting solution for the Alumina-Aluminio complex in San Cibrao, through the public intervention of Alcoa. We know it's the only solution, once this American multinational refused to sell the aluminum plant. Approximately one thousand direct jobs can be lost, but we know that there are many more jobs that could be lost if the Government does not act decisively throughout the region of A Mariña. Many jobs are at risk, and it is therefore necessary to put on the table solutions to ensure that this does not happen. These are proposals that we consider reasonable and fair. That is why I believe that no one in Galicia would understand that they would not be taken into consideration by this Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u149	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u150	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I ask you to vote in favour of the amendments by the People's Parliamentary Group, which propose an alternative budget to this section, which, as it is proposed, we believe does not provide solutions to the Spanish productive fabric. In fact, Sunday's announcements about new plans are the recognition of the failure of what has been done so far, of the obsolescence of the budget before it is approved and of the lack of projects and initiatives of this ministry. By the way, Minister, I think you announced today that a new plan was being adopted. Where is he? Government action is making zigzag, with crazy management and interministerial book decoordination. He gives contradictory messages one day and another also, far from an indispensable cross-cutting policy; messages full of excuses in his speech, also in his interview on Sunday. Our amendments constitute an alternative way of dealing with this adverse situation which is suffering from the productive and entrepreneurial fabric of our country. What is the consequence of the pandemic? Yes, but also the way in which we combat it and the mistrust that this Government transmits. The tourism sector is going to go back almost thirty years, a sector that accounts for 13% of gross domestic product, 2.5 million workers. This sector has been abandoned by public policies, and the only hope is the Marshall plan, it seems. The commercial and industrial sectors, such as the car sector, have had impressive falls and there is no decisive commitment in this budget either to reindustrialisation or to the permanence of a competitive commercial sector. And that is not only a problem for the results of companies, a large part going through serious difficulties, and all those in the tourism sector with losses, but also regarding employment and the sustainability of social policies. The first thing, Minister, is to trust all entrepreneurs, big and small. In Spain there are thousands and thousands of self-employed people and SMEs who are having a very bad time and for whom the Government does not propose anything useful in these budgets, they do not contain a planning or a road map, demanded by the sectors. From the beginning of the pandemic, the People's Parliamentary Group has been considering lowering tourist VAT. We are asking, and other European countries are already doing so, many of our competitors, but the answer is always no. What I find incredible is that the minister on Sunday said that this would not only serve to improve the outcome of businesses; its assertion is inconceivable. Of course, every aid goes to accounting, but does the minister believe that any tourism company currently has benefits? Have you walked around and talked to hoteliers, hoteliers and travel agencies? Lowering VAT means creating and maintaining jobs and making a sector viable, relying on the agents. It still seems to me worse than, with which it is falling, the minister insinuates in her interview to the small entrepreneurs that there can be no aid because there is a lot of economy submerged. No, minister, submerged economy is the one practiced by the spokesman of Podemos. Small businesses have a system of modules to facilitate accounting and tax obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time like this we must rely on self-employed people and SMEs to create jobs, wealth and well-being, we must make the task easier for them with the administration, help them economically and taxily, not put them in difficulty and, much less, insinuate that they do not comply with their obligations. Some of our amendments are aimed at helping the self-employed and SMEs, since they are convinced of the important economic and social work they do. For example, do you not think that the content of our amendment requesting that self-employed workers should not have to contribute, not pay taxes during the suspension of their activity, should be put into practice - and not remain stuck in the no - as a containment measure of the virus? [[Applauds]] Minister, don't you think I should recommend a change in the direction of the vote? Do you not think, for example, that funding should be provided to the autonomous communities so that they can arbitrate aid to those who are forced to close? Not even an amendment in this regard has been allowed to vote for his Government. This is really helping the business sector, not large orchestrated assemblies from Moncloa to drum and platter for Pedro Sánchez but not for entrepreneurs who cost more money than the aid that does not reach anyone. From my group we have tabled amendments to promote gastronomic tourism and encourage consumption in tourist activities by the Spanish, to which you have voted not in the Commission. Don't you think you should reconsider? And together with believing in and helping the productive sectors, it is necessary to make a different economic policy, in support of supply, based on a profound tax reform, in which taxes are lowered and wealth creation and employment generation are given priority in tax policy. I told you before: you have to lower tourist VAT. There is no justification for a no, which sounds like masks and only benefits the Administration. Or its not to alleviate the rise of the traffic tax, a small aid to our automotive sector. We must give certainty to the ERTEs, prolong them in time. Airport charges should be lowered and generalised health control and safety measures should be put in place from the budgets to ensure that Spain is a safe, non-disincentive destination with more accessible evidence. And you are not hiding again in the European Commission, because this report says it can be done and you said no yesterday. Again it looks like the history of the masks. Minister, another industrial, commercial and tourist policy is possible. There is an alternative, which is reflected in our amendments. His strategy is wrong, erratic, elaborate from the back to the productive sectors, and, like everything they do, with more marketing than reality and full of excuses, like those that filled his interview on Sunday in a media outlet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u152	Thank you, President. At the risk of looking heavy, I insist again with the same usual. You talked about transformations. As I no longer know how to put it after so much debate in the Committee on Budgets and so on, I will see whether it is clear from the facts. I am going to focus on tourism and on my land, although it can give an overview of everything as far as the changes you mentioned are concerned. Regarding the arrival of tourists to the Canary Islands - I will give the data to make us reflect on all -, in 2010 there were 10 million tourists; in 2011 there were 12 million; in 2012, about 12 million also; in 2013, also 12 million; in 2014, 13 million; in 2015, 13 million; in 2016, 15 million tourists, beating records; in 2017, 16 million; in 2018, almost 16 million, and in 2019, 15 million. This makes us a world power. It is much more tourism than the one that visits, for example, the Caribbean countries, which are so in boga as destinations desired by many people. There are so many more visits that Canaries receive than those that reach, for example, that region of the planet. What's wrong with this? What translation do you have? I'll give you two more figures. First, with regard to unemployed people - I give a couple of examples - there were 306,000 in 2010; in 2013 there were 360 000 people, out of a population of two million, and in 2015, 297 000. It is clear to us that, in the last ten years, unemployment in the Canary Islands has fallen by 200 000 people. And the third column about the data I wanted to give to explain all this - data that are terrifying - refers to people at risk of exclusion and poverty. In 2010 there were 600 000 people; in 2011, 628 000; in 2012, 700 000 people; in 2013, 600 000; in 2014, 587 000; in 2015, 600 000 people; in 2016 - eye, it is no coincidence, the year in which the record of tourists is beat and reaches 15 million, but we had 274,000 people unemployed - we reached the record number of 750,000 people at risk of exclusion and poverty - I repeat, of a population of two million inhabitants - and the same is true of 2017, with 660,000 people, and so on, until 2019, when we reached 633,000 people. I think something's wrong. We are the hen of the golden eggs, we are a gold mine, we generate a lot of wealth, but it is poorly distributed. We see that unemployment does not fall by 200,000 people and that poverty spreads in large pockets across the archipelago. If all this serves us to explain clearly that the productive model has to be transformed and changed, as you indicated, this is a ranking that can serve very graphically to explain to people the situation in the Canary Islands. With regard to GDP, since the gross domestic product measures the size of an economy, the wealth generated in a given territory, we are in the number 8 position of the country; 8 out of 17. However, in the per capita GDP, which, by fat brush, serves to explain the wealth that a population has, every citizen, we are in position 14; in 14 of 17. In wealth generation we are in position 8, but in wealth per inhabitant we are in 14. What do I want to convey with all this? What have I repeated in my last speeches, during all these budget debates in the Commission? That we need, as you said, a transformation of the productive model and that these General State Budgets are the perfect lever to do so. We have to take advantage of it. Of course, we must change the model and diversify the economy. We have enormous potential in renewable energy, given our geographical and climatic situation. It also has everything to do with paid care, public services, industry. I have repeated on many occasions all the possibilities of diversification that we have in the economy, but we have to take advantage of them and do so. I'm done with this. I hope that this data has been used to open the eyes of many people to what is an urgency and a necessity, to push all powers so that we do not see ourselves in the situation in which we are now, caused by a very fragile and dependent economy. The responsibility lies with the public authorities, of course, and that is why we are doing it here in Parliament, but also with the private economy, also with the business fabric and, of course, with civil society. If, as you rightly said, and I take your glove, there is public-private collaboration - in these budgets there is 80% more money for research, innovation and development - we will be able to finally, as a whole, make the country change and, in particular, my land, the Canary Islands, can leave for decades, although I could say even centuries, of condemnation in monoculture, which makes us a fragile and dependent economy. We generate a lot of wealth, but we see before our noses how it goes, how it flies abroad or remains in very few hands in our territory, while unfortunately, much of the population is condemned to one of the other two columns of which I spoke before, to the column of unemployment and unemployment or to the column relating to the risk of poverty and exclusion. Let us hope that these budgets - I firmly believe they can be used for this - will serve to change our productive model. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I've heard you say: Drive of Spanish companies in international markets. Is the money that is going to be used for construction in a building in Cuba really going to drive our companies? He said: Industrial transition and transformation of the productive model. As they continue to do so, there will be nothing to transform, because what they are doing is destroying. [[Applauds]] The turnover of industry, commerce and tourism is falling. These sectors are basic and agonizing. We hear it in the news, we see it in our neighborhoods, cities, villages - factory closures, business closures, shops, bars, nightclubs, hotels, travel agencies - and we see it in the queues of hunger. And they bring us General Budgets of the State - I repeat, of the State - supported by the enemies of Spain, by those who want a regime change; budgets that generate inequality before the Spanish, marked by the ideological agenda, on unreal economic forecasts and that kneel before philotetras, coups and separatists. Yesterday we heard Bildu's representative say - I open quotes -: 'We will now be more demanding with the government who are fighting for a more just and free society'. Where is the freedom of those whom they murdered? They are the budgets of inequality - depending on where you are born, more resources - and betrayal, away from reality, from the business fabric, from the self-employed, from the workers and from what our nation needs. For example, in industry, in programme 420.A, on action in relation to decarbonisation, at this difficult moment, what is urgent is to protect employment, taking into account that industry generates quality employment and 14%. Perhaps it is now that the Podemos, who are always demonizing, do not understand that the important thing is to work, and do not queue to eat. [[Applauds]] They allocate money for the attraction and development of female talent. Ladies and gentlemen, talent has no sex. Talent is the ability to perform a particular activity or task with skill and effectiveness. They allocate money for the creation of a country brand image that supports innovative enterprise. You know what's innovative? Innovative is to keep the factory, company or family business open, and they are the ones who need resources. Under programme 421.M, funds are allocated for a foundation; in 421.N, grants of EUR 100 000 and EUR 50 000 for foundations; in 421.O, increases in staff costs and money for high offices, leases of buildings and other constructions, studies and technical works, scholarships and grants. In tourism and trade, in the 430.A, Agenda 2030, and in the 431.A, increase in staff expenditure by more than 1 million euros, with fewer staff. Programme 432.A includes EUR 100 000 for a foundation in Tarragona. In short, Minister, we have a budget increase of more than 331%, as you said, but the tourism sector, for example, tells you that these are disappointing budgets. Therefore, the issue is no longer, but better. [[Applauds]] By the way, Minister, you have recently stated that lowering VAT to tourism would only improve the performance of companies. How far away from reality, minister! VAT is a tax. Don't demonize companies, as do their partners in Podemos. Mrs Martínez and other political parties, given these budgets of ruin and betrayal, while others are drafting sterile amendments, we have recorded more than 1600 initiatives with the firm intention of this government explaining what the Spanish money is going to be spent on. We are proud, very proud, because not only have we generated more than 50% of the activity in the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism and we have been pioneers in the registration of much-needed non-legislative proposals, but also in the rest of the committees. So thank you, comrades; very good work. [[Applauds]] I'm done. This government and its traitorous partners speak of social justice. Ask a mother if it is fair to raise the price of sugary drinks - including infant milk - and whether new taxes are generally fair. Of course, public accounts must be an instrument of redistribution, but based on efficiency, not on the seizure in the pockets of the Spaniards. They sell us that this climb is only for the rich. Only the rich drink child's milk, soft drinks and juices? Only the rich pay autonomous quotas and corporation tax? Only the rich pay more tuition or energy? Doesn't it seem to you that there is already too much fiscal pressure that early Spain has to pay the six-month working wage of the 12th of the year? Redistribution? Demagogy. More management, better management and less taxes. [[Applauds]] Budgets are important, they have a decisive influence on the lives of Spanish people, and these budgets do not include structural reforms, they do not include how to boost growth and job creation in our industry, trade and tourism. Mr Simancas, yesterday you asked: Can you tell me that there are in these budgets that they cannot vote? I'm going to sum it up and I'm going to make it very clear to you: No to treacherous budgets. No record public spending. No deficit and unsustainable debt. No to the expensive machinery of ideological chiringuitos, friends and freighters of this Government. Not a historic tax hike. You may have to repeat it later because of your lack of attention. [[Applauds]] VOX has come to change things to improve the lives of the Spaniards, so no, no and no to these budgets of ruin and betrayal. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Rueda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Soler Mur has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been in this Chamber for two days dealing with the budget and the truth is that I hear the opposition, this exaltation of VOX and the PP, talking continuously about who we are going to approve the budget, who has spoken about the budget and its economic forecasts, but they have dealt very little with the actual content of the budget. And believe me, I honestly think that when the opposition wants to talk little about the budget, it is that they have found little reason to attack it. [[Applauds]] And it's that they're undisputed budgets. [[Applauds]] You are still on the line in which you have been carrying out your political work over the past few months. Since the beginning of the pandemic you have been criticizing the Government for everything: first, because the state decree alarmed came late, then because we wanted to keep it as a management system of the Government of this country. They also criticized that we did not give any kind of responsibility, that we did not share power with the autonomous communities, but, when we left them the responsibility, you said that we inhibited ourselves from the problem and that we were not really at the head of the health crisis. You over the past few months, instead of allying with the government to fight the virus, have made the decision to ally with the virus to attack the government. That's what they're doing. [[Applauds]] And about this debate on budgets, those who come here to talk but have not participated in anything, to that Spain that at dawn it is seen that the alarm clock was broken on the day of the Committee on Budgets, because it was not any day; it is seen that those days did not have to dawn. Well, you have consolidated your position as a truly anti-system party, because you do not participate in the debate of the most important law, which marks the political orientation of all ministerial departments throughout the year; you do not participate in that debate, you have truly anti-system action. We know what their usefulness is, yes, we can call them to unite Spain - they do it wonderfully - or to hold a flag, for that we can call them. Less exaltation of Spain and more worrying about the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The PP says - it has been a mantra, a continuous throughout the debate - that we voted with Bildu and Republican Left. I am very drawn to the attention - Rafa Simancas said yesterday - that you have not had any room to support amendments by the Republican Left and Bildu in the Committee on Budgets. [[Applauds]] You are, but we cannot support them, we cannot allow them to support the draft budgets. That is what you have actually done in the Committee on Budgets. That is the reality about what you do and what you say. That's his incoherence. This is a very good budget for the country. In the Ministry of Industry, as the Minister has just presented, we have for the first time a budget that is committed by industry. We have been asking for years, please, for a budget to meet the target of 20%, but when we actually have it, you criticize it. There are 4860 million euros in a historical budget, unprecedented, for this ministry, this ministry that exists now, because when the PP ruled there was no ministry of industry. Now we have a big budget, with 74% more than the last one you made. In industry, 29 billion, 927 more than you put in your last budget. Support for technological projects; support for financing industrial investment projects, which for the first time are not going to have to be subject to a grant call, but which will be able to be requested throughout the year; support for innovation and technology; support for hydrogen-related technologies; support for CERSA for the consolidation and assurance of operations; Enisa for support for SMEs; unprecedented support for tourism, for which 1349 million, 331% more, 1036 million more than you have included in the budget. And, despite that, you say that the departures are insufficient, that it does not support tourism. They could probably be supported more, but they are given one billion more, one billion more. You talk about VAT as if VAT were the panacea. Mrs Borrego Cortés - although I never see you in the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism, but you have come here, I think it's great - I have to tell you one thing: do you think you are not travelling in this country...? [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u157	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u158	Don't get nervous. Why does a whisper always come up when someone from the PSOE intervenes? We respect your interventions, don't get nervous. [[Applauds]] Relax! respect the speaker. Basic principle of democracy: respect for the speaker Do you think anyone stops traveling right now for tourist VAT? Do you think it's the key? Do you think you're stopping travelling internationally? Don't you see the pandemic is the problem? Do you think that if VAT is lowered there will really be a travel avalanche at this time? [[Mrs Borrego Cortés makes affirmative signs]] This can only do or improve the results account of entrepreneurs - which I think is right - or lower the final price of the ticket, travel, etc. But do you think that people are not traveling for VAT, for a small differential price margin? That's not the problem, the problem is that you have to stop the pandemic and you have to regain the chance to travel so that people go to one destination or another. That's the reality. That is why curbing the pandemic is a fundamental objective of government action above all else. Meanwhile, there are 600 million to support the sustainability of tourism, 400 and peak million to support the circular economy of tourism, it is taking advantage to support with many millions also the digitization of tourism. That is what this Government is doing. Mrs Martínez, you said that you did not support two fundamental sectors. You were talking about the car, but if we present a plan, which you know, of 3750 million euros for the car, which has already started to start and which will have more than 1500 million euros this year, and for the electrointensive industry there are 320 million euros! Mr Rego, I understand your requests - you are not here now - but obviously the budget cannot be squandered in every city, every province, every community. There is a large amount of aid which is then allocated according to needs. In short, this is a great budget. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Soler, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 21, Agriculture, Fisheries and Food We continue with the debate in section 21, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, on behalf of the Government, has the floor for the section's presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to present the main lines of the draft State General Budgets for the year 2021 with regard to the appropriations entered under Section 21, corresponding to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. They are budgets designed for a fiscal and budgetary strategy to combat the effects of the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic caused by the COVID-19 and to lay the foundations for the recovery and economic and social transformation of Spain and also the growth of our economy in stronger, more competitive and supportive pillars. These budgets are aimed at promoting the competitiveness, sustainability and profitability of both the agricultural and fisheries sectors and the agri-food industry. Ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food sector in our country is a strategic engine of our economy that is demonstrating its enormous strength despite the difficult situation we are experiencing from the health crisis caused by the coronavirus. As I have had occasion to point out on many occasions in this very rostrum, the Government of Spain, since the beginning of the pandemic, has regarded the agri-food sector as essential and strategic; its response to this difficult situation has been agile, has been effective, legitimising even more the importance of having at all times diverse, safe and quality food at reasonable prices, without forgetting, without doubt, the difficulties arising from the total or partial closure of the Horeca Canal that have affected us greatly, and against which the Government has logically adopted horizontal support measures also specific to the sector, as well as those arising from the European Union. And just as this sector has resisted very well in the crisis, I am convinced that it will play a very important role in economic recovery. The budget I present to you in Section 21 has actions aimed at the development of the rural environment, the consolidation and improvement of irrigation programmes, the regulation of markets, the improvement of the competitiveness and quality of agri-food production, the prevention and improvement of health and the prevention of risks in production, and also food control. In the area of fisheries, the protection and conservation of the sea, participation in the planning of research policy on biodiversity of marine ecosystems, sustainable management and exploitation, protection of fisheries resources, marketing and processing of fisheries resources and research. To all this this section of this budget devotes an overall figure of 8496 million euros, which is 10.47 % more than the previous budget, an amount of 805 million extra euros, including 406.5 from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Obviously, this budget has in its heart and as a fundamental part of its financial daring everything relating to the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, the EAGGF, as could not be less, and also to the EAFRD, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, for all the actions that have to do with our agriculture, our livestock and our rural environment. There are EUR 7159 million, of which 5793 are dedicated to the first pillar and EUR 1366 million to the second pillar, to rural development policy, which clearly show the involvement of European policy in the management of this ministry. The CAP is certainly the main instrument we have, and I do not want to go into each of the sections, programmes or subprogrammes, but I do want to mention one in particular, which is the Posei, the Programme of Options specific to the remoteness and insularity of the Canary Islands, where last Friday night we finally managed in Brussels to maintain the full support of the EUR 268 million dedicated to this purpose. [[Applauds]] I think it has certainly been a remarkable success that our farmers and the entire rural environment can enjoy. Similarly - and this is the second point I want to make - the EUR 1366 million of Community rural development funds will be increased with national and autonomous co-financing to more than EUR 2 billion. I would also like to mention in this context the third component of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan dedicated to the environmental and digital transformation of the food and fisheries sector, where we have included eleven investment projects worth EUR 406.5 million. Issues such as water saving or energy efficiency, modernisation of animal and plant health laboratories, improvement of agricultural holdings or support for digitisation or research, innovation and digitisation of the fisheries sector are, of course, key elements that complement all the implementation of the budget with regard to the common European agricultural policy. As far as the breakdown within the ministry is concerned, I have to point out that a fundamental part is certainly in relation to the agriculture and food part, EUR 7681 million, to which 388 of the recovery plan should be added, so 8069 as a global figure in the field, as I said, agriculture and food. As far as fisheries are concerned, a total of EUR 65 481 million is concerned, all of which relate to agricultural and livestock activities, particularly irrigation policy, as well as to the elements linked to rural development and to the specific problems arising from the health problems of agricultural production, the promotion and cooperative integration and the development of our agri-food sector. As regards fisheries, the two programmes, programme 415A and programme 415B, see their amount increased by 42.46 % and 25.15 % respectively and are a clear element of support for the whole of our fisheries sector, which is so important within the whole of our agri-food landscape. I conclude my speech, ladies and gentlemen, by referring to two issues that are particularly dear to me in this budget that I am presenting to you and to this House. The first concerns agricultural insurance, which is a fundamental pillar of the agricultural income of our farmers and farmers and of the viability of our farms. It is a fundamental element and I want to say to you with satisfaction that at this time, and by closing the statistics, as of November 22, this year 369,794 policies have already been subscribed for 347,436 in the same period of 2019, with a much larger insured capital, 13,381 million euros compared to 12,192 million euros in the same period of the previous year. We are therefore going to achieve a new historical ceiling on agricultural insurance, which is obviously a very important element of modernisation and support for business profitability. In this respect, the Government of Spain, to which I am honoured to be a party, has wanted to support the agricultural insurance sector and the whole of the Spanish agricultural sector, including an additional 40 million to increase this figure by EUR 251.2 million. It is the largest increase in agricultural insurance in the last 20 years and that comes to stop the fall that from January 2012 until May 2018 had occurred from 285 million to 211 million, a drop of 74 million that in a single year we will recover in more than half thanks to this budget. This will therefore enable us to subsidise all actions relating to cases of policies with a high degree of disaster where, unfortunately, they obviously need additional support in relation to climatic contingencies, the additional subsidy for young farmers, the additional subsidies for losses of extensive livestock pastures or also the supplementary insurance which will be the subject of additional support. I conclude by referring to another issue that I am particularly fond of, because it also shows the competitiveness, modernisation and innovation of our entire primary sector, which concerns the renewal of agricultural machinery, for which we have included in this budget EUR 10 650 000, which represents a very significant increase of almost a third over the previous one established in the extended budgets of 2019 and which, for the first time, means the inclusion not only of a direct subsidy, but also of a possibility, a line created within that EAEC for credit guarantees, which will allow us to cover the purchase of machinery up to an additional EUR 30 million, taking into account the classical exhaustion of these lines, given the success of these lines. I conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. These budgets, as far as Section 21 is concerned, constitute a powerful instrument and a solid instrument in support of our farmers, our farmers, our fishermen and our rural environment, all of which will ultimately bring about the recovery and transformation that we want for the Spanish economy as a whole and also particularly for our agri-food sector, of which we are so proud. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I support all the amendments tabled by the Joint Group. Secondly, I would like to inform the Minister that, although I am talking about my amendments on agricultural matters, this is the only time to defend all the amendments I have tabled to all the ministries. Minister, the Canary Islands are very pleased with the decision by Brussels to maintain the Posei funds. Brussels never fails the Canary Islands. The Government of Spain always fails the Canary Islands, especially when it does not have the nationalist votes. As far as the Posei funds are concerned, 15 million are included in their budgets, but the additional figure for the Posei that the Spanish Government had to put in is 23 million. Secondly, the Economic and Fiscal System approved in the Canary Islands requires the Government of Spain to pay 100 per cent of the transport of bananas. There are just ten million and you are not going to support the financing and enforcement of the economic and fiscal regime. In the case of agricultural insurance, the amount available does not cover the obligation also contained in the Economic and Fiscal System. And let us no longer talk about the ferry plan and the agreement on hydraulic works, all that has to do with desalination and purification, which is fundamental. Let us see how the Socialist Party explains to the Socialists of La Palma, who carried it in their electoral programme, that you Socialists are going to vote against the parties for the rafts. With regard to other ministries, I would like to say that the Socialists are voting against the public service obligation to finance air transport on the Gran Canaria-El Hierro line. As for the employment plan for educational infrastructure, obligation of the Government of Spain because it is in the economic and fiscal regime, zero euros. As far as other projects are concerned, I have to say that our mouths are swollen here. I feel that my colleague, Alberto Rodríguez, whom I highly appreciate, is not ahead, because he made a speech with which we all agree: In the Canary Islands we cannot live only from tourism; we need innovation, development and renewable energies. As it turns out, with regard to the only two research projects that were included in the 2018 budgets, the Institute of Tropical Medicine and the Institute of Natural Products, with funding from Carlos III, which are with the COVID and with European projects and which had a million euros, leave to zero the Institute of Natural Products and 100 000 euros to the Institute of Tropical Medicine. There we are. With regard to tourism, you rescue Air Europe: EUR 400 million. It seems very good to me, but it turns out that in the 13 billion of the tourism budget we have 20 million for the digitisation of the tourism sector in the Canary Islands. Where is the money that had to be for the tourist infrastructure of the Canary Islands? Where is the cost agreement, so important in coastal proceedings? Where is the broadband extension in the Canary Islands? Where is all that had to be for the issue of the geothermal potential of the islands? Where is the transport of waste between islands, the circular economy, which is a job opportunity and something necessary in the Canary Islands? You vote against it. Where is the financing of all the projects that historically existed of culture and sport of the ministry in the Canary Islands: the Canary Islands Music Festival, the contribution to the Martín Chirino Foundation, the International Film Festival of Las Palmas, the historical contributions in the area of Fine Arts to the historical heritage of the Canary Islands or the performances in the historic center of the city, World Heritage Site, La Laguna, La Orotava, Santa Úrsula and Garachico? We're on. Roads. Judgment of the Supreme Court, non-compliance of the People's Party, 800 million, and today the socialists have been happy because they have given to the Canary Islands 100 million euros to reduce the debt they had to have paid two years ago of the 800 million of the sentence of roads. There's that. It is not only a debt of the State with a Supreme Court ruling, but also thousands of jobs in the construction sector. We're on. The work of evacuation of the road traffic of the Port of San Sebastián de La Gomera, the construction of the pier at the border and the specific housing projects that had to have out of the logical bag among all the autonomous communities, you eliminate them. It seems to me very good that there are 3 billion for the car sector and 1500 for the tourism sector in the rest of the peninsula, but in the end, in the Canary Islands we have 60% of the population and 62% of young people unemployed or in ERTE, we have a tourist zero and we have a terrible situation, abandoned on the subject of immigration by this country; not by this country, but by this government. What I'm asking you to do is think about it. The Canary Islands cannot face a future that the OECD says today is going to be terrible for this country, much worse than the forecasts that the Government of Spain had. The data came out a few hours ago. The OECD says the worst will be the Canary Islands and you help not to give the tools to my land so that you can fight on equal terms to get out of the economic crisis, the health crisis and the tragedy of immigration that also affects a welcoming community but does not have the capacity to integrate. Today, the Vice-President in the Senate said that no detours can be made to the Peninsula because immigrants cannot enter Europe. Canary Islands is the southern border of Europe. Canary Islands is Europe and always complies with it. What is lacking is for the Government of that country to comply with my land. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Díez has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u164	Good afternoon. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budgets serve to mark the course of the ship that the government is piloting for at least this year, but in this case I think it will be for some time longer. Our amendments seek to correct drifts and help improve navigation conditions at a time when the crossing is difficult and when a good captain is missing from the post of command. Unfortunately, that command bridge is more like the Marx brothers' cabin every day. We have tabled only four amendments - one of them vetoed and will therefore no longer be put to the vote - where we focus on the main problems facing the fisheries sector at the moment: the promotion of marine products and aquaculture; a decent appropriation, not EUR 1000, as the budget now puts - as I know it is an extensionable item, but we must keep the aesthetics in addition to ethics - for aid to the sector by COVID19, and a new programme to facilitate generational relief and boost the training of crews so scarce today. They'll probably reject them today. No, probably not, they will reject them, just as they have already vetoed the proposal to increase the social security contribution of seamen by 50%. The problem is that you follow the course that some of your partners set out for you. For example, in this process of amendments we have had the opportunity to see how 80% of the budget of the Directorate-General for Sustainable Fisheries is allocated to fisheries in four amendments of the Republican Left of Catalonia? No, improvements and construction of roads and rural infrastructure in Catalonia. This is the fisheries policy of the Republican Left of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] But not only of them, the PNV is presenting two amendments which make up 50% of the budget of the other Directorate-General which remains - yes, Minister; do not say that it is not because it is - for fishing? [[the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Planas Puchades, makes negative signs]] No, no, To make green roads where there were railway lines before. This is the letter of presentation of its partners in the government, a very bad letter of presentation to go to Europe, where these issues are decided. With these crews you have chosen, the fishing boat will probably end up in the wreckage or, which is worse, it is likely that the boat on which we are going all the Spaniards will end up in the wreckage as well. I wouldn't bargain with ERC or Bildu, because they're looking for the wreckage of Spain. Sounds like it, doesn't it? Felipe González said so. Today I repeat it here so that it remains in the Journal of Sessions. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u165	Thank you, Mr. García. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Marcos Ortega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u166	Minister, this budget that you really paint so well is an attack on the rural environment, an absolute contempt for an indispensable sector in the economy and an insult to the intelligence of all those who believe in it. How can you consent to Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Iglesias taking shelter with the money of the people? Don't you see that they intend to charge you in taxes much more than you have in the budget? To avoid this, we have tabled several amendments, 1500, all voted against. We just pretend that there's more money, less taxes and that that money, the little there is, doesn't leave it to you but comes to the one who really has to get there. The only positive thing about this budget is that they have managed to unite the whole sector, but everyone against it, and it is normal, because it leaves agriculture in the most absolute irrelevant. It is the sector that can most contribute to resilience, which has the most environmental demands, which must make the most investments to survive and which receives the least money. In growth - you said it - just over 10%; the rest, on average, 67. In European funds, there are two parts, the one that comes directly to rural development, 218 million euros, that are unbudgeted, that have remained them Hacienda somewhere, and 140 billion euros from the Funds for Recovery and Resilience, of which you will already tell me how much you have touched. The stone, the stone, Minister! The sector accounting for 12% of national GDP has been allocated just over 1%. It does not allow agriculture to be the black sheep of the Government. They support the amendments of the People's Party or impose themselves on the rest of its colleagues. How can you consent to EUR 11.5 billion for resilient infrastructure and systems and that the sector that can most contribute to resilience has practically nothing else, the same as the Seiasa already had in 2014, and to carry out the infrastructure works that the People's Party had already planned? Ecological transition and demographic challenge grows by 141%. How can they vote against more funds for water storage or for urgent digitisation and Internet plans in unpopulated areas? How can they vote against it, knowing that there are 11.2 billion euros for energy and another for both digitisation and that the Ministry of Agriculture has practically a handout for the agri-food industry and its digitisation? And the bottom line is that Mr Sánchez's advisors' money is growing in budgets by 115%, and that is what you so much want, such as machinery and machinery aid, to reduce by 40% in direct subsidies. He's been replaced by loans. It is not the same, loans have to be returned, direct subsidies, no; and it is what farmers need, money, there is, but not for agriculture. [[Applauds]] Defend the sector, it's your obligation. I think we've seen everything. It is true that Sánchez has traded with the CAP less budget and you applaud and deny it. The Minister of Employment accuses you of having slaves and you keep quiet. The vice president first, exactly the same thing, Monday without meat, and you keep quiet, shut up again. The Minister of Finance now does not budget him or what is his, and the top is Mr Garzón, who increases his budget by 68% and must use it to veto the foods he does not like. You in this case keep quiet and also justify it. No green taxes, no digital service taxes, and much less the tax on sugary drinks, which is all it does is harm the sector. You know it well, the fruit sector knows it, your socialist colleagues in Castile and León know it, who have put forward a non-law proposal, and I hope that all socialists in Castile and León, Valencia, Andalusia, Murcia, Navarre, Rioja and Álava will vote against this budget and try to prevent sugary drinks from having that unjust tax. No more impositions, no more lies, no more pre-potence, no more, Minister. While Brussels puts lost money to farmers and farmers, you only tax it, and VOX also helps you with...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. I'm sorry, but your time is up. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u168	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as I said at the Committee on Budgets last week, there are certainly a number of increases in the budget heading for this ministry in this draft budget, but there are some traps out there, because the specifications are something else. As we pointed out then, this increase is welcome, there is no other possibility before the evidence. However, we must expose the absence of those structural issues that could most contribute to the development of the Spanish countryside, especially to the rebalancing of the food chain, which, as the National Competition Market Commission points out, is in great asymmetry in the size of its components. Indeed, from Citizens we believe that the fiscal boost in terms of favourable conditions for producers is of vital importance for the development of the primary sector. For the same reason, we believe that a process of conversion and modernisation in the agriculture and livestock sector must be undertaken, which will also promote associations and cooperatives, economies of scale, the merger of farms, the reduction of the incidence of fixed costs and the drive for R & D and i, which will lead to a better and more differentiated product. In line with this we have repeatedly presented in Congress various tax initiatives against depopulation, because the rural world needs to have real opportunities: the decline of the IRPF for residents or people who carry out agricultural or non-agricultural activities there, or a super-reduced fee for young people. We have also proposed implementing measures to improve connectivity, such as the implementation of a shock plan to close the digital divide in the rural world, establishing broadband connectivity as a public service obligation to ensure its arrival in all households, as well as ensuring uninterrupted access to 4G wireless technology connections in all rural, urban and state-owned communication areas. This matter is being worked on in the Ministry of Ecological Transition, but we understand that from the Ministry of Agriculture it also has to devote part of its departures to solving this problem. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are working hard and bringing solid ideas to the benefit of the primary sector and rural Spain, which has become so important during the pandemic, because while we were staying at home the sector of the Spanish countryside, which was on the street mobilizing to fight for their rights, left everything to help us, and we have to return that help. Minister, we have tabled an amendment to the joint text so that we can at least help farmers to reduce their electricity costs, to put in place the possibility of such a double section of electricity and to pay less when they use it less, however, it has been left out, because it involved a reduction in the revenue from the budgets. It seems to us that it was very important - it is something the sector is asking for - and we thought that this ministry would look at it with other eyes, even if it had to talk to colleagues from other ministries, because we understand that communication should be fluid. This budget does not contain any of our proposals, and we really regret it. We are missing actions of fiber deployment in the rural world - as I have commented - because it is essential to save rural Spain, so that real digitisation can reach rural Spain, so that they can reduce their costs, so that efficiency is maximum. If we want to reverse depopulation, we have to bet on teleworking and help people in that rural world remain connected to the rest of the world and can make their farms much more efficient and make them much more profitable. The peoples of our country cannot remain disconnected, and that is what we propose in an amendment. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the government is rejecting it again. Therefore, in Citizens, who have always held hands - in particular, with their ministry we have had very good communication - we believe that all the proposals we make are useful and should take them into account. Although there is little progress in this ministry, there is still a lack of ambition to solve the real problems of the rural world by choosing to extend a declining model rather than undertake reforms to improve it as soon as possible. If we always assimilate the primary sector with the funds of Europe or with the CAP, it will mean that the basic problems that the sector has will never have sufficient funds in budgets, and they need it, farmers and farmers. It is difficult to understand how the parties supporting the Government do not support our amendments on agriculture and livestock; we do not understand that. We do not understand what and who you are going to spend the money on, why not farmers and farmers? We do not understand that they refuse to help citizens who fulfil, have their rights, and who have responded when we need them most. The Spaniards won't understand it, they're taking note of everything that's going on here. Please, Minister, please accept our amendments, and we also ask the Socialist Party and the rest of the parties because we think they are a little bit more for a sector that needs it and a lot. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u170	Good afternoon, Madam President. Mr Minister, first of all, it is up to us to welcome these budgets that come to help, support, collaborate and resolve in addition historical demands of those who took care of us and fed us in these difficult months and that keep our territory alive: livestock farmers, farmers, sea people, in short, the people of our primary sector. In this regard, agricultural, fisheries and food policies are increasing their budget allocations by more than 900 million compared to the last budgets of the People's Party, the ones of 2018. This is a rise of more than 12%. This increase is precisely to alleviate almost all the cuts made by the People's Party between 2011 and 2018, which were precisely 12.5% of these funds. It should also be borne in mind that, while part of this increase is made thanks to the funds from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, more than half, an amount of more than EUR 490 million, are own resources. This gives an idea, in our view, of the importance this Government attaches to the primary sector and, ultimately, to the rural world. We believe that the increase in budgetary allocations, focusing on specific action programmes to support the agricultural and fisheries sectors for their protection, modernisation and training, must be highly appreciated in the face of the challenges ahead: the environment, health and also technology. A separate mention also deserves the necessary increase of the allocations dedicated - as the minister said - to agricultural insurance policies and the development, in addition, of new lines of support. The proposed budgetary progress in improving working conditions, especially in the fisheries sector, with the provision of extraordinary resources for the effective implementation of ILO Convention 188 on fisheries, is also more than positive. Also noteworthy is the commitment to generational relief, both in fishing and in the countryside, by having tools to facilitate entry into the activity by the younger population and, in addition, their training and their greater accessibility to support resources. From our parliamentary group, we would also like to congratulate in particular on the priority given in these accounts to the section to which we refer on the environmental issue. We believe that no one, except the lords of VOX, stuck in the negationist superchery, denies that human activity has brought the planet to its limits, that the balance of ecosystems that makes life possible as we know it is in a more than delicate situation. And this draft budget assumes this condition, by putting concrete measures in place to achieve the necessary sustainability of primary activity. And beyond that, it is at last a question of establishing the care of the environment as a cross-cutting axis throughout the budget project. Another title we would like to highlight is the commitment to rural development. Rural development policies fell into oblivion under the governments of the People's Party, which, between 2011 and 2018, reduced their allocations by 28%. It is now proposed to recover a large part of these investments, with a 20% increase in these policies to raise and strengthen the rural world and its future. But the investment effort does not remain there, because the own resources must be added to the 270 million for projects of the recovery and resilience mechanism dedicated to the rural environment and to the improvement of water resources for irrigation. It is in this context that it is also important to outline the increase in resources from the Feaga and the EAFRD for agricultural production and rural development, which will be decisive in the drive of our economy and, above all, of our regions. Finally, we would like to highlight the contribution made through the National Transformation and Resilience Recovery Plan, with EUR 406 million for projects that affect water saving, energy efficiency, animal and plant health, the transformation of the productive model, the modernisation of the fishing fleet and, finally, a set of programmes and improvements that we believe will help to advance the right path. In short, they are budgets to be on the side of those who have taken care of us most in these months, of those who need it most, of our primary sector, of our farmers, of our farmers, of our people from the sea and, in short, of those who guarantee our food sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Chamorro Delmo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u172	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Minister. To start my speech, I must say that these General State Budgets follow the erratic policies carried out in Spain by the PP and PSOE in the Spanish primary sector, which consist of a lack of national commitment to the primary and food sectors, total financial dependence on Brussels funds, blind obedience to the global agendas that drown our sector in the medium term and whose globalist policies fulmine fair competition and food prices. What is the result of these erratic policies? The ruin of an important part of family farms and livestock, the abandonment of crops, prices that do not cover the costs of production, unfair competition from products from third countries, relocation to foreign countries of our agri-food companies - like Morocco, where you were an ambassador, a country that also threatens our fishing schedules -, widespread depopulation of rural areas due to the lack of opportunities and profitability of farms in the primary sector. The effort of the Spanish State in these General State Budgets with its own economic funds for agriculture, fisheries and food is minimal. The total budget of this Section 21 is EUR 8400 million, of which the European Union will pay EUR 7600 million through the ERDF, the new European Union recovery funds or the common agricultural policy through the Feaga, as you said, Minister. That is to say, 91.57% of the allocated amounts for agriculture, fisheries and food come from European funds, so that they would arrive in Spain regardless of whether or not these general state budgets are approved; therefore, they do not deceive our primary sector with these budgets. [[Applauds]] Our European neighbours, such as France, provide additional funding of billions of euros by taking advantage of the financial flexibility that has been given in the face of the health crisis to support farmers, winners and fishermen. In Spain, state contributions to support the sector do not even reach alms, trying to mask their lack of commitment to the primary sector with funds coming from Brussels. They have money that, they suppose, will come from the Recovery Fund under specific projects; that money may not come from the Government's own incompetence in making viable projects. What will be the system for project submission? Is this money going to reach farmers, farmers and fishermen, or are the funds going to go to the government's great consulting friends? While most European countries have lowered taxes to promote recovery and job creation, this government has done the opposite. The main sources of collection will be once again the rise in diesel, which is essential for the primary and rural sectors, or the rise in sugary beverages, which will be lethal for many food and agricultural sectors, such as the beet sector. Tell the mayors of the villages living from the beet that they are going to ruin their way of making a living on an ideological issue. These budgets should take into account, once and for all, the strategic nature of Spanish national agriculture, as demanded by VOX, and even more so after the global health crisis created by the Chinese virus, where the capacity for sovereignty and food self-sufficiency has been key. That strategic sense is what many European and world countries have, where domestic food production is such an important sector as energy, technology or heavy industry in relation to national interest. These general budgets should also have taken into account the changes that are intended in the common agricultural policy. In addition to cutting the funds, the Commission intends to change the CAP's position through green pacts and architectures, 2030 agendas, green transitions and farm-to-table pacts. This will have a negative impact on European agricultural production, affecting food security, producers' incomes and European food self-sufficiency. We are not only saying this in VOX; in the absence of impact reports from the European Union, we must make use of the latest study carried out by the United States Department of Agriculture. It concludes that these ideological policies in the European Union and this paradigm shift in the CAP will be a real disaster for the agricultural sector, for consumers and for European food security. The impact study highlights a 12 % reduction in agricultural production in the European Union, a 20 % decrease in exports, a 17 % increase in prices, a 2 % increase in imports and an increase in the annual cost of food per capita in the European Union of $153. In addition, the Government could have used these budgets to recover the levels of funding under the rural development heading that changed the PP in 2015. The item you are proposing today is 1485 million, about 1 billion less than the budgeted five years ago, thus accepting the cut in funding. Tell the people of rural Spain to assume the financial cut of almost 1 billion in rural development. With regard to specific programmes, 414.B allocates only EUR 50 000 for the modernisation of farms, much less than its salary, Minister. The 415.B, aid to alleviate the consequences of COVID, provides a ridiculous 1000 euros. These erratic budgets, with all the above said, together with the poor distribution of the items and the alms, will make the Spanish countryside weaker, encourage non-production due to the lack of profitability of the farms and cause imports to collapse some markets. They are disappointing and ruinous budgets for the Spanish agricultural, livestock and fishing sector. All he has left in the field is VOX...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Chamorro. [[Applause from the Members of the Vox Parliamentary Group, on the stand.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr González Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u174	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Minister, I congratulate you on the budget. I congratulate the entire Government. Because we're the same political color? No, because it really is a very big budget and, therefore, we must be happy and satisfied. I am addressing the whole House, everything, because today it is to be happy; we will agree among all groups the budgets for 2021. I am not going to address either the People's Party or VOX, on the right, who are going to vote that not - among other things, because I am going to address those who owe us, farmers - but I have to tell you that I am surprised by your thick words. I don't know if they're on merit with their respective bosses to see if they're on board or to see if they're on the next lists. Words have been said as traitor, contempt... I believe that in this Parliament we use a vocabulary that does not deserve those who owe us. [[Applauds]] That is why I say that I am going to stop at those who owe us: farmers. There we were born, in the field, and we owe them. Precisely the farmers at the beginning of the year told us their needs. Here they are, right? [[Show a document]] This is the table of demands that brought us to all parliamentary groups and to the Government; there are ten petitions. Our President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, quickly said they were right. He went to Brussels in July to obtain, through dialogue with his European counterparts, recovery funds for this pandemic. It has also managed to have sufficient resources within the multiannual financial framework for farmers to have the necessary funds, and this country, to deal with the crisis we have. The first of the important claims is in reference to insurance policy. They were asking for more funding. Well, minister, it's done. From EUR 211 million to EUR 251 million, an increase of EUR 40 million, an increase of 20%. Therefore, objective achieved. Another of the measures that farmers demand from us in this table of petitions are the measures to improve the efficiency and sustainability of irrigation. From the figure of 50 million euros that the People's Party assumed and that, by the way, they did not execute - it would be missing more! - we have gone to 306 million euros, 500 % more. [[Applauds]] Measures to modernise our farms, measures to benefit energy efficiency, water efficiency, reuse, digitisation, modernise our farms. That is the sensitivity we must have, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, not in the budgets but indirectly - reference is made in some section to what I am going to say - they claimed fair prices. Minister, I'm gonna do the ball a little more. [[Laughter]] Yeah, talking about realities. You promised to amend the Food Chain Act, Royal Decree 5/2020. Fulfilled the promise. But, in addition, the draft law amending the chain has been introduced following the transposition of Directive 633 on unfair competition, and it is already here in Congress. Farmers therefore know that we have complied, they know that the government has complied. I have left, because I am obsessed with this time to not pass, the fourth great request made by the farmers and it is in reference to the CAP, to Community agricultural policy, to that financial framework in which Pedro Sánchez threw the rest and got it. [[Protests]] And the minister, in the Luxembourg Agreement... Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes, in the Luxembourg Agreement of 20 October it did not get the same budget as seven years ago, but even more. It must be recognized that the ultra right and the ultra right - sometimes you get so confused! - were sharpening your nails, politically speaking, to see if we had less money and criticize. [[Applauds]] That is the patriotism you have, in this case with farmers. I am very pleased, at this time and in these nineteen seconds that I will say that it is an extraordinary budget at general level for an exceptional moment, and also in agriculture it is an extraordinary budget. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u175	Thank you very much, Mr González. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Faneca López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u176	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the only ship that has lost course and is anchored is yours; even with its captain, sunk. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are of appreciation and appreciation for the great work that has been done by the whole fisheries sector working on the high seas at such a difficult time and throughout the whole pandemic, in an activity that is now doubly dangerous, to bring food from the sea to the table of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a large, historical budget of around EUR 75 million, 25% higher than that laid down in the General Budgets of the State for 2018. Research, environmental protection, blue growth, modernisation and innovation, together with the economic sustainability of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, mark the lines of the budget that we are debating today without leaving anyone behind. There are a lot of items and a lot of programmes, but I would like to highlight one, the protection of fisheries resources, which increases by 35%, for something that the fisheries sector has always asked for, namely scientific studies in decision-making, for example, in the Gulf of Cadiz or management plans or quota allocation. As a novelty, digitisation and innovation measures are incorporated, the blue revolution through national cultivation plans for aquaculture, the competitiveness of the sector, optimising the conditions on board and promoting energy efficiency. I would like to highlight heading 415.B, which represents strong government support for women and young people in scholarship training, which guarantees the future of fishing for this population and its improvement. Thank you, Minister. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the comprehensive approach of the investments proposed in this budget, which will promote the achievement of the targets set by the 2030 Agenda that are appropriate to the needs of the sector, increasing its resilience and making it increasingly sustainable and competitive. Thank you, really, minister, for your management that affects the whole sector...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Faneca, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u178	... that the People's Group left behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u179	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Section 22, Territorial policy and civil service We move on to the debate in section 22, Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I compare with all of you to share the general budget lines of the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service, section 22, for the financial year 2021. The figures I am now going to comment on are part of country budgets, progressive and transformative budgets that seek to overcome the health crisis, strengthen the welfare state and represent a fantastic opportunity to achieve the economic and social changes that allow our country to move forward, to reactivate the economy and, at the same time, to lay the foundations for the change of a productive model. The Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service, which I have the honour to lead, has two major objectives in two major areas. On the one hand, to contribute to territorial cohesion, by enhancing the policies of cooperation of the State with the autonomous communities and local authorities, and on the other hand, in the field of public service, the proper functioning and modernization of public administrations. To this end, the Ministry has 10 budget programmes, of which five are implemented directly by the department's governing bodies, four by its autonomous agencies and one is jointly managed. The total consolidated budget for the year 2021 of the ministry and of the autonomous bodies attached to it - that is, the INAP, Muface and the Transparency and Good Government Council - amounts to the amount of 2509 million euros, 338 million more, ladies and gentlemen, which means an increase of 15.57 %. Analyzing the State subsector, i.e. exclusively section 22, without therefore including the autonomous agencies under our ministry, the budget for the year 2021 amounts to 619 million euros. Compared to the base budget for 2020, we have an increase of EUR 263 million, which, as a percentage, means an increase of 74% in the budget. Much of this increase, ladies and gentlemen, is due to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan presented by the President of the Government on 7 October, which is the mechanism through which the implementation of the funds should be guided to receive the European Recovery Fund for the years 2021-2023. This plan, as you know well, is structured around ten lever policies, ten tractor policies, which will directly affect those productive sectors with the greatest capacity to transform our country, our economic and social fabric. The fourth lever policy, the fourth tractor policy, aims to promote a public administration for the twenty-first century, so that the public administration can act as an engine for technological change, which includes a plan to modernize our public administrations through the digitization of services, and the improvement and efficiency of all public services. Ladies and gentlemen, for the entire period 2021-2023, the ministry will count on EUR 600 million, distributed as follows: EUR 570 million, i.e. 95%, will go to autonomous communities -EUR 340 million - and local authorities -EUR 230 million; and EUR 30 million, i.e. the remaining 5%, directly to the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service to develop the lines of action I am going to comment on throughout this intervention. This plan has been distributed by annuities, so that a substantial part of the financial effort is made in the first two years, in the years 2021 and 2022, and will account for 80% of the expenditure, with only 20% remaining for the year 2023. We have created a programme, the 920.A, aimed at hosting these funds, which is structured for the year 2021 as follows: 11.8 million for such actions in the ministry itself and 228 million for public administrations, of which 92 million euros are for local entities and 136 million euros are for autonomous communities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, 95% - I insist - of the credits of the MRR, the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, go to processes of modernization of autonomous communities - 56,7% - and to local entities - 38,3%. As far as the area of territorial policy is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would quickly like to comment that programme 922.M, the territorial organization of the State and the development of its systems of collaboration, which seeks to promote and develop inter-administrative collaboration between the central, the autonomous and the local administrations, monitored the system of distribution of competences and is equipped for this exercise 2021 with 10.33 million euros, which refers mainly to the increase in Chapter 1. The 942.A programme, of local economic cooperation of the State, is a programme that promotes the system of cooperation between the AGE and local entities, through its participation in different lines of action, and provides specific resources for local entities. This programme is endowed with 35 million euros, and highlights - I want to mean it - the transfer to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities, which is increasing by 5%, and the Investment Fund of Teruel, the FITE, with 30 million euros destined to finance as a means of cooperation to the economic development of areas with special difficulty, as is the case of Teruel. For its part, programme 921.P, of general administration in the territory - a new programme - aims to improve the organization and functioning of the AGE in the territory; in particular, it seeks to provide the delegations and sub-delegations of the Government with the personal and material means necessary to guarantee the quality of the public services we provide in the administrations. It experiences a slight increase of 2.7%, which is mainly intended to meet the public employment offers of the years 2018 and 2019, which cover government delegations and sub-delegations, and also a slight increase in Chapter 2, with EUR 1.8 million to provide PPE equipment for the protection of the staff of these services, so that they can provide them with the best guarantees. I would also like to highlight a slight increase in Chapter 6 for investment and technological improvement in government delegations and sub-delegations dealing with the improvement of services provided to citizens, such as foreign offices, vaccination centres, coordination units against violence against women and PIFs, border inspection posts. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have strengthened the delegations and sub-delegations of the Government with €7 million to strengthen their work, which we think is tremendously important. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of Public Service, I highlight the 0.9% increase for public employees, and above all the Plan for the Modernisation of Public Administrations, on which the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, the MRR, will be piloting on the following vectors: the digital modernisation of human resources management tools; the drive for the digitisation of procedures and the strengthening of electronic registers; the development of a technological platform for citizen care and for improving the accessibility of the transparency portal of the General Administration of the State; the drive for open government policy in the digital environment; the development of a digital talent attraction programme; actions to improve decentralization and telematisation of selective processes in innovation, the digitisation of learning and training, and the design and implementation of a training plan for teleworking. Also, ladies and gentlemen, it will be an important axis of this modernisation plan for learning and information innovation and, finally, a training plan for public employees with new technologies. Ladies and gentlemen, I also highlight programme 921.N, which aims to boost public governance and open government and, of course, for the new plan that we have adopted, the Fourth Open Government Plan, a tremendously important, very significant plan that has the necessary budgetary momentum to carry it out. The OIC, the Office for Conflict of Interest, is also going to increase by 5.33% to finance these actions, which seem to us to be extremely relevant and important. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue with the National Institute of Public Administration. Programme 921.A is intended to exercise the powers of INAP for the training and development of public employees, their selection and promotion of the various activities of cooperation, coordination and research and publications. It is endowed with 96 million and an increase of 9.32%, which is meant in two sections. First, in chapter 1, with more than €3 million, to deal with the payroll of new officials and women in practice as a result of the 2018 and 2019 OPEs, tremendously important for the rejuvenation of our staff and the endowment to our General Administration of the State. And, secondly, chapter 2, to deal with selective oppositions and evidence as a result of the agreement we have signed with UNED for the decentralization of selective processes. You know that opponents can present themselves anywhere in our country in the territorial centers of the National University of Distance Education and do not have to come to Madrid for tests. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue with Muface, mutualism, with two programmes. First, 222.M, for economic benefits and administrative mutualism. They know that Muface manages the expenses arising from the protection that must be given to mutualists and their relatives or assimilated: situations of temporary disability, risk during pregnancy, risk during breastfeeding, great disability, retirement, death and so many others, ladies and gentlemen. It has an increase of 8% and highlights the rise in Chapter 4 as a result of the increase aimed at temporary disability, high disability care and functional diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, programme 312.E, also from Muface, for health care for administrative mutualism. This programme covers the costs arising from the provision of health care to officials of the State Civil Administration, their families and their dependants by those medical, surgical or pharmaceutical services. It is endowed with an important amount, ladies and gentlemen, with 1511 million euros and represents an increase of 42 million, which has to do with the increase of transfers to the pharmacy offices and also to the assistance concert with the mutualists. Muface will also undertake, within the Plan Spain Puede, a modernization plan to enhance Muface's communication with mutualists, update its technological infrastructures and the implementation of the digital clinical history of mutualists. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a programme I have tried to summarise briefly at this time, but I conclude by saying to all of you that it is a budget to increase public confidence in the public, in the value of the public, to contribute to the improvement of public administrations through unprecedented modernisation in our public administrations, to give effect to people's rights and thus improve their living conditions. It is a budget that gives us country horizons and gives us hope to look to the future. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u182	Good afternoon and thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, as a representative of the Joint Group, I support all the amendments tabled by the various political groups that make up it. As a party, we have not tabled any amendments, but in this section of Territorial Policy it is very timely to recall the position of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria in the budgets. We have already expressed it in many debates. In the investiture session, although we did not support the candidate, we said that we were going to study the law and that we would decide on the basis of each of them, since we considered the Government to be legitimate and, precisely, this is a fundamental law. This is a fundamental law and this is a legitimate government - it is more, it is the only government possible at this time - and a government has to govern and, as it has to govern, it has to have a budget. The position of the Regionalist Party is that we want a budget and we want it for Cantabria, because, although the budget is from all over Spain, Cantabria is a fully integrated region and interests us all. We are at home when we come to Madrid, when we go to Catalonia, Andalusia, the Canary Islands or Galicia. And I no longer say anything when we are in the neighbouring regions or provinces, when we are going to Asturias, Burgos, Palencia or Vizcaya. There they rather feel at home because many even have their own home in Cantabria. That is why defending Cantabria's interests is not only possible with any government, but for the Regionalist Party it is an obligation. We have tabled a number of amendments, realistic amendments and not amendments to the weight. We have negotiated our amendments and I have to admit that several, quite a few, for the most part, have been collected. More than 75% of the amounts contained in the amendments have been collected by the Commission. We are therefore relatively satisfied in this regard. [[The Lord]] Amounts have been included to increase the railway deadlines, the doubling of the track from Santander to Torrelavega and the sections of Palencia, which benefit Cantabria. And also amounts have been included for the underground of the Torrelavega and Guarnizo roads and some small road, but we still have a number of amendments, some items to prevent the floods, which have been terrible, and the minister knows it - then I will remind her of some case - for dissuasive parkings or for the Institute of Environmental Hydraulics. We also have to say that we reject the veto of some amendments concerning local authorities, which you, as a representative of territorial policy, should be defending, especially when we are talking mainly about small municipalities and when we want to fight against depopulation. And then there are other amendments that we are going to support. You know that in this section we have to talk about everyone, even if they don't strictly refer to yours. I am sorry; pass it on to the government colleagues. For example, in agriculture - the minister has gone now - there is an amendment concerning carbonated beverages and the increase in VAT which excludes dairy products. For us, this is an important amendment. First, because it is common sense and affects health. And second, because this has a lot of repercussions in Cantabria, a livestock land where the primary sector is still important. In addition, this is an opportunity to remind the minister that she must also ensure territorial balance, because there is great concern in Cantabria and throughout the cantabrian cornice about how the new CAP is being processed. It seems that it is abandoning the livestock sector which is engaged in vaccine production and milk production; in other types of products it improves, but the cantabrian cornice, which has an accelerated and important decline compared to other parts of Spain, should be included. I just want to remind you directly that you told me that you were going to give me good news about the pending payment of the floods. It is true that today you have just told me that you have signed the resolution of the call to pay January 2019, but you have not even made the call for December 2019. When I studied the budgets, I went to see if they had something planned, but they didn't. I don't know how they're gonna fix it, but I hope it doesn't happen in 2021 without being paid for. Make a decree-law or whatever, but since you are not in the budgets, you should include them. Finally, let us see how these amendments end and what is the result of the vote. I hope it's satisfactory so I can have a budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u183	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u184	With venial, Mr. President. We find ourselves in a low-investor ministry, that of Territorial Policy and Public Service of this section 22 that occupies us. Most of the expenditure is for staff and current expenditure, which accounts for almost 82% of the budget. And it is that we stand before the government with more positions of free designation of history, twenty-two ministries and more than a thousand advisers. Ladies and gentlemen, as many advisers as there are in the government, this government is only right when it corrects. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the parliamentary development of a law that is essential for Spain, such as that of the General Budgets of the State and, Minister, the picture is deplorable. This budget for nothing increases confidence, as you have just said here, just the opposite. Given the current situation in our country, when there should have been more dialogue than ever, the parties of the Government coalition have imposed the veto and the roll. When a more thorough analysis should have been provided than ever, what we have is a horsenail procedure. When the national situation demands unity and reinforcement to the pillars of our democracy, what the Government presents to us is a pact with those who want to destroy it by which the Government surrenders by sending the language of Cervantes to the storeroom and makes a reel with education, which is the fundamental pillar of the development, growth and future of our children and of Spain. The annual public accounts agreement, ladies and gentlemen, distils a strong stench of incompetence and lack of responsibility: inflated revenue and lack of credibility with the institutions themselves and with the European institutions. As I say, ladies and gentlemen, there is no State responsibility whatsoever. The budgetary pact presented by the Government with the separatists of Bildu and ERC and their partners in Podemos is a vehicle for towing the purposes of those who claim to blow up our social and democratic state of law and, fundamentally, ladies and gentlemen, is an insult to all Spaniards, to the most recent history of our country and to the memory of the victims. In this ruin, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you will not be able to overcome the firmness of the People's Parliamentary Group, because with our amendments we defend the unity of Spain, we defend equality of opportunity and solidarity between the territories, and we are depositaries of the democratic memory of Spain. We cannot accept under any circumstances a budget that breaks with the most elementary principles of democracy. We warn the Socialist Party, loud and clear, that to agree with those who want to destroy Spain is to sell the principles of socialism and it is also to betray all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly faced with a change in the model in how to govern. The Government ended in the general interest of the Spaniards. Governments have a constitutional mandate to govern for the general interest. Not here anymore, here is not fulfilling that mandate. It is now being governed so that the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, will remain in his place. In return, the Socialist Party favours the interests of those who want to change the model of state, those who want to replace Spain with a nationalist, illegal, failed and rampant dream, defeated by the rule of law, as it could not otherwise be, and defeated in court. But there is Mr Sánchez's government, helping those who would do so again, agreeing with them, answering their explanations and prioritizing their demands, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore a desolating picture that you have had to live in that ministry that you hold, Your Honor, with that Council of Ministers. This renunciation of the general interest is already being seen everywhere, for example in the Canary Islands, where, Minister, immigration is out of control and the Government, in the last month, has clearly made the omission its way of managing. The government is not working, Your Honor, and these budgets are not going to work either. The assignments are unworthy, they upset everything and affect all sections, also section 22 that we are now dealing with. For example, the budgetary commitment to Esquerra, that is, the transfer to the separatists in relation to fiscal harmonization, also affects the territorial policy of the State, which you swore to defend here a moment ago, because it seeks to pave the way for a change of model in autonomous financing, thereby violating the right to financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, which clearly reads Article 156 of our Magna Charter. Now, with these budgets and with these agreements, the state wants to impose a tax on the autonomy that lowers its taxes, but what is actually intended is to hide the incompetence in the management of those who have among their government priorities the breakdown of the constitutional order and devote very little of their time to managing the government of their autonomous community. Thus, for example, the companies in Catalonia are leaving, where unemployment is unobstructed. But in the model they bring us here, that doesn't matter, because in that model the people are no longer a priority, but other things, dreams and barbarities, and with those barbarities this government agrees. What is now intended is to punish Madrid, Andalusia and other communities because they lower their taxes, but when they do, there is more investment and more is collected. It's not a paradox, it's a reality. And when they lower them, Your Honor, they pay their suppliers, they bring investments, because they give legal certainty, and they dedicate themselves to govern for their citizens and not to face anyone. It is a model of success that helps families, that helps workers, but it is a model that does not like to the left. Within the Government, no one has the courage to recognize this, even if inside and outside it is known to be the reality. The governments of the People's Party will continue to lower taxes, will continue to provide legal security and create employment, even if this disturbs the left. We are very sorry for the left, but we are very happy for the Spaniards, because we are the useful alternative for Spain, Your Honor. That is why we maintain those amendments which we are offering the Socialist Party to rectify. They are amendments, for example, to stabilize public employment, to provide for the equalization of the salaries of members of the State Security Forces and Corpses, to ensure that the replacement rate of the police, the Civil Guard and prison officials is raised by 130% and that of the health personnel is raised further, if necessary, with the recognition of an extraordinary payment to the health personnel for their formidable task in the fight against the pandemic, Your Honor. We ask for more means for the Transparency Council. By the way, Minister, they publish the composition of the committee of experts; they do not intend to commit any more fraud against the Spanish. [[Applauds]] These budgets are not for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u185	Thank you. Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor for positions and for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u186	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, minister. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to pay tribute, as I have done before, to all the officials and all the workers who fight the pandemic: to the health care workers, the State Security Forces, the Army, etc., and also to accompany in the feeling the relatives of all those who have tragically lost their lives and those of many who continue to lose their lives in our hospitals. I will start by saying that this budget is reprehensible in many respects. We can choose any one of them. They can be the disproportionate expenses in the middle of the pandemic, the science fiction section, i.e. income, the exponential increase in expenses in advisors and fingerpoints, the increases in high-ranking salaries, but perhaps for me the worst is that Otegi, from the trenches of ETA, the leader of those who want to end Spain, who insult the National Police and the Civil Guard in the Basque Parliament, and who feel proud of their bloody and cowardly past, will defend this budget as their own, and they themselves say that the price of their vote is a solution that leads to their self-determination. Are you going to allow self-determination, socialist gentlemen? You really don't feel anything, I don't know, a little embarrassing? That's a lot of swallows. Despite you, we are here to continue trying to improve the accounts until the last minute. That's what the Spaniards pay us for. I also mean the gentlemen of VOX. I hope that no videos will be recorded when these amendments are to be voted on, those that are still alive, those that defend groups such as prison officials, National Police, Civil Guard, Army and all those you claim to defend so vigorously. These amendments remain alive. I would like to focus my intervention on this point on a problem which I have already announced to you, Minister and Members of the parties supporting the Government, they will have on the table one day and another too. I am talking about the constant abuse of temporaryity in public procurement. I imagine that we are all familiar, or at least should be familiar - I think you are, Minister - with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 March 2020. This resolution denounces a truly unfair situation that is taking place in our country regarding the abuse of the temporary nature of hiring public workers. Abuse is occurring systematically in our country, and temporarily, it has been occurring for a long time. Temporary public personnel are intended to cover needs that are permanent and stable, and that, Socialist Party gentlemen, government gentlemen, minister, is illegal. I'm not saying it, Europe says it. A just and objective solution must be given to these thousands of public employees who were actually demonstrating at the door. For years they have credited their merit and capacity not only to fulfil the European mandate, but to improve the quality of the public service that they offer us all. This is also not going to have a significant cost to the public coffers, as we are already talking about created squares. Convene, minister, it's not that difficult. However, in view of the frantic races to process and approve these budgets with the Sanchez band, I believe that the only thing we can try to be constructive is to guarantee these temporary workers that they will receive adequate protection, at least for as long as the effects of this terrible pandemic last, and if it can be in the future. That is why we tabled our 1745 amendment to the joint text, and how all were voted against by the government parties. We're still keeping her alive. I'm waiting for support. For the same reason, we proposed that the salary of senior government officials should not be increased. In a situation like that which the Spaniards are living, also because of the management of the government, it is outrageous and shameful to see how they try to raise wages with impunity, it is a lack of respect for all the Spaniards, one more. We have also proposed that priority should also be given to public sector research bodies, including of course health research, for the purpose of increasing replenishment rates, which the Government also voted against. The self-proclaimed most social government in history has proved only to be the most expensive government in history. You socialize wealth, yes, but among you, you divide it among those who have the card of the Socialist Party or that of Podemos and now with the independenceists. In short, what was proposed in this and other portfolios by our group were logical, coherent and perfectly achievable measures, removing what is left of the public accounts, such as the excess in advisors and in totally inoperative expenditure. But this government is more busy increasing advisors and negotiating privileges with Otegi and Torra and bringing ETA prisoners closer. I don't want to imagine the outrage that ETA victims must feel when they see Bildu in La Moncloa. Some are here, in this Chamber. [[Applauds]] They read news of prisoners approaching day and day as well. From this rostrum I want to convey all my support, all my solidarity and affection to the victims, for what this government of Sanchez and Churches is doing to them can only be called in one way, even if they do not like to hear it, and it is treason. I'm done, Socialist gentlemen. History will remind them of whitening Bildu, who has publicly defended terrorism and has not condemned it, who toasted with champagne with each of the murders of my comrades and all the innocent murdered. And they have done so by sitting at a table with them and selling their entire history and sacrifices. And why? By four votes, for a year more than the worst possible president of the government in the pandemic, Mr Sánchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u187	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for coming. We have already had almost half a debate in plenary on budgets, and I do not recall a single intervention by any of the right-wing parties in which no mention has been made of ETA, the coup in Catalonia or anything else that is not strictly related to the defence of their amendments or to the legitimate criticisms they can make of the draft budgets. The last speech is self-portrait, but I am left with the speech made by the spokesman for the People's Party, Mr Rojas, in which, bearing in mind that we are talking about a section dealing with the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service, he has devoted exactly zero seconds to talking about public service, public services or something related to it. You have not said a single word about something that has to do with Public Service or public services. That which might in principle seem anecdotal, however, represents very well what the real position you have in this budget debate, what you can say and what you cannot say. You have to come here and tell us about ETA, the coup in Catalonia, you have to proclaim the seven plagues of Egypt that will come with these budgets, because you cannot tell us the truth of what you think. And the truth of what you think is that you are against these budgets because they are budgets that bet on public services, on the welfare state and on everything you don't believe in. Of course, you cannot go up here and say: we are not going to support these budgets, because they are budgets that spend too much money on social investment, on welfare, on protection of labour rights, and they are budgets that, with the margin given by the fact that the Stability Pact of the European Union has been suspended, can cause a certain increase in the deficit, a certain increase in the debt to precisely protect these rights from citizenship. Of course, when the debt was increased to rescue banks, there was no problem; when it can be used to rescue citizens, it's something else. Of course, you can't come here and say that because no one would vote for you. Therefore, they have to come and we have to talk about ETA and anything but budgets. And we were saying it yesterday - said my colleague Martina Velarde -: the best demonstration that these budgets are good is that none of you are in favour. We also have the experience of what you represent in the Government, both in autonomous communities and at the state level, with regard to Public Service and Public Services. We know what you have done with the cuts in absolutely all and each of the public services - in each and every one -: health, education, dependence, in absolutely all. But we also know what they did with the wage policy of officials - we said it here yesterday - a cumulative loss of purchasing power of between 13% and 19%. We also know what they have done with the emptying of public administration and public services personnel: one hundred thousand fewer workers from 2010 to the present in all public administrations. We know what they have done with precariousness, which we are now at 20% overall in all administrations, and in the education sector by almost 30%, and in a sector as important as Health by 50%. We know it's your model and we know it's no coincidence either, it's also said. What you wanted with this model was to degrade public services, in a project to then justify, on the one hand, their privatizing policies and, on the other hand, to promote private interests. Because, of course, if public health does not work well, people tend - if they can - to pay for private health; and if public pensions are in danger, people run - if they can - to make a private pension plan, etc. And that was his project; and that was his model. That's why these budgets bother them so much, because these budgets challenge that model from top to bottom; they challenge it from top to bottom. On the other hand, I believe it is common sense that in this legislature we all have to fight to strengthen public services; and it is clear that, in this task, the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service has a fundamental role. That is why the figures given to us by the minister in her speech - which reflect, for example, a 15% increase in the consolidated budget of the ministry and its associated entities, or which reflect budgetary increases in the ten budgeted programmes linked to the ministry, etc., which I believe the minister has perfectly explained and need not repeat it again - I understand that you feel badly, because, logically, you are betting on the public and, as I have said, that is not your model; it is not what you are defending and therefore these budgets are hindering and disturbing you. In short, we believe that in politics we must choose, we must always choose, and when budgets are made it is the time when we choose with the most determination. And, in this case, you have to choose between budgets that benefit people or budgets in which those vulture funds or those people who have an interest in looting the public and doing business with the rights of the citizen feel represented or reflected. Of course, we have bet this time on benefiting people, and we understand that it upsets them; and we understand that those who do business with citizenship rights are upset. But, as is usually said: garlic and water. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u189	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u190	With the coming of the presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good afternoon. I was bringing an introduction that I'm going to skip and I'm going to go straight to the grain; already, as it is, we're going to stop rolling. Look, the first thing that has surprised us about this section is the huge amount of staff spending, if any; what we know as advisors. That a ministry, of which almost 90% is carried by Muface, has EUR 6 600 000 in contingent personnel, seems to us to be barbaric. But of that EUR 6 600 000, EUR 6 million is for advisors to government delegates, and it is barbaric. Of course, it seems that 6 million is nothing, but for those of us who comb canas are 1 billion pesetas; and 1 billion pesetas was the budget of a ministry not many years ago. I, who will do sixty this month, remember budgets of 1 billion. It seems to us, therefore, to be barbaric, because in government delegations there are qualified officials, there are a great many posts of free designation; not only the provincial directorates are of free designation, all the head offices of the area or the post of Secretary-General of the Government Delegation. The post of head of the secretariat of the Government delegate is self-appointed and therefore it is not understood that they need such contingent personnel, contingent personnel that for those who do not know it are placements of friends, because I know several. Yes, yes, don't look at me like that, minister, because in the end they're not chosen by the government delegate, they're chosen by the party, and the party is the one that tells the government delegate: you're going to take the guy as an advisor, because he was number seven on the regional list, he didn't come out as a deputy and the man is fucked up - with forgiveness - and you're going to take him to a mengano who was a councilman and he hasn't come out in the last ones. [[applause]] They put you as an advisor and the government delegate has three or four people who are worth nothing more than to be well connected to the party, and that costs us 6 million euros, which seems to us to be a real barbarity. By the way, in the Commission, the justification given by the Secretary of State was that this was already before. I was old, but they could have taken it off! [[Applauds]] I also explain this to myself, because I look at resumes of government delegates and there are every resume that I am not surprised that I need advisors, but they could better select those who are going to represent the government in the territory of the autonomous communities. Secondly, we are also surprised that they are irrigating trade unions from this section with almost EUR 10 million. On the one hand, they create a new budget of EUR 8.5 million for training. The undersecretary, in the Commission, told us: this year we have made a transfer from Chapter 2 to Chapter 4 for trade unions to take training courses. We have checked this, and where 9 million in Chapter 2 have fallen, it is material, supplies and others for training public employees. They take from INAP the material for the courses of the officials to give to the trade unions. [[Applauds]] In addition, trade union organizations are already nourished for the formation of continuing training, of agreements with the autonomous communities. The big unions all know that they are bankrupt, and this is an aid that they give: we are going to give 8.5 million for training. Another interesting item: 1 200 000 for collective bargaining under the EBEP. But why should 1 200 000 be given to negotiate? He says, "No, it's for diets. I mean, for the famous seafood we've seen out there! My diet sounds like seafood to me, what do you want me to say? [[Applauds]] Well, almost 10 million. It's inexplicable. And they take it away from the officials and cut them off from scholarships and grants - they cut it in half - to give it to the unions for the shellfish. That's the reality of your budget. Do not say that trade union organizations are essential. I know that they will then justify it with formation, because we have already seen it in Andalusia, because they have means to justify it by formation, but do not try to deceive. [[applause]] It is an aid, an injection for their structural expenses, for the excessive expenditure they have. One day a debate would have to be opened on the role of trade union organisations in the public administration because, after forty years of democracy, there is still a very high number of staff released, paying 100 per cent of the salary, including the productivity that their colleagues have on average - in the case of workers, the night, the dangers, etc., that they have either the temporary work that supplements them or the average of their colleagues -. We must, as I say, open up a debate, study it thoroughly and see the cost it has not only in the State administration, but also in all self-governments and in local administrations. Finally, because the President is already going to cut me off, I wanted to talk to you about the Transparency and Good Government Council. Interestingly, its chairman has recently been appointed, has just taken office, and in October he appeared on the Commission. He was talking to us about what he intended to do, and the first thing he said was that the budget he had was scarce, that with that budget he could do nothing, but that he had his commitment, the commitment of the Minister, that he would raise the budget to be able to do what he had to do. It has surprised us that, at the time of truth, the budget barely rises. But we only have to remember what they did during the pandemic, when even the Transparency Council came to regret the Government's decision on the de facto suspension of the transparency portal, and it joined in a statement by the International Conference of Information Commissioners, which called for not sacrificing the right to access information in the crisis of the coronavirus. And yesterday he gave Minister Illa ten days to give the name of the hidden people of the so-called committee of experts. This is what your Government means by transparency. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u191	Mr. Del Valle, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u192	Well, that's all, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u193	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Andres Barea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u194	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Madam Minister, thank you for coming and for giving us the explanations you have given us about the budget. As we have heard, here are two versions. We meet people who make an interpretation of the budget that is reasonable, such as Mr Mazón, and others who come directly to insult, as it were. They come to attack, to bind her to try to get her own idea. They have said many words: misrepresentation, indignation, the Sanchez band, betrayal, incompetence, false income... One after another, but do you know why they do all that? Because they're not right, and they use words simply to misrepresent. [[Applauds]] The representative of VOX, who has not tabled amendments, who has been on vacation - as other speakers have said - has had neither a bad word nor a good action, and today acts as a patriot; come on, as a patriot. It again raises the issue of trade unions. I would like to draw attention to the issue of trade unions once again when you would have to know the budgets perfectly and, therefore, you would have to see that the aid for trade unions is not in this ministry, but in the Mystery of Work. You like the trade unions a lot, because, aren't you creating a trade union called Solidarity, something similar to that of Poland? [[Applauds]] They also care a lot about counselors - they believe the thief they all are of their condition -; you, who do masters for advisors to place your people. I have to say to the Lord of Citizens, with all due respect, that whenever he speaks he takes out the subject of terrorism, and I can understand it, and he always speaks of the eye for an eye. But I put to you a phrase that everyone knows: Can't we stay blind? Is that the solution? I'd like you to think about it, no more, with all due respect. All I have to say to the People's Party is that it has made a macro-amendment, although the amendment has nothing to do with what it has said today. It is curious, it is an amendment to the whole of the ministry, the form and the background, because the People's Party does not like the Ministry of Territorial Policy, because it does not like the concept of recognition of other entities, of other sites. He doesn't want to. For you the recognition of the other does not exist, and you are unable to give solutions, and you proved it when you ruled. They only use autonomy to torpedo the Government of Progress, and as a platform to create institutional shocks, we have seen it this weekend. You raise 'in war all good', confrontation and appeals to the Constitutional Court, which always come to your hair. The truth is, we don't understand it very well. However, we believe that co-governance is the way to foster coexistence; co-governance to live with mutual recognition; co-governance for shared decisions; co-governance for responsibility and co-governance to live with respect. This ministry aims - the minister has not said it, but in the objectives of the ministry it is - to reduce the litigation between the state and the autonomous communities and to contribute to the statutory development, something fundamental. After this, the first criticism of the PP in its amendment is the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Do they look a little short on Spain's 140 billion dollars? I think it's amazing. The truth is that what you show is that it bothers you, disgusts you; prove it at once, because you did not get anything, absolutely nothing for Spain in the previous crisis; nothing, zero euros. [[Applauds]] You just got austerity and austereicide. The truth is that you go to the European Union - if you don't go to Mr Casado - and you say: we will go back to Brussels again. They would have to say that: we will go back to Brussels again, because they are constantly going to Brussels to complain about Spain. It's a bad image, it's an image that doesn't marry at all the interests of that patriotism that you're so proud of, and so far you're disloyalty. You have said that these budgets are a bear's skin, you say that there will be no funds, that there will be no money. Don't give us choices, don't teach us lessons. You mean, with the tax cuts, they're going to solve the problems? The problems of society or the problems of some people's pockets? Because I think there are big differences. Of course health, education, social services, are maintained with money, and by lowering taxes they cannot be maintained. So you will see, choose one thing or the other; of course you choose the fastest: the pocket. [[Applauds]] The ministry's contributions to communities are 136 million and to local entities 92 million. It is the most important budget that this ministry has, almost 50%, as the minister has said. And now I'm going to talk about the issue of transparency, which seems to be playing a game today. The first thing I want to tell you is that the transparency portal has not been closed, but that the deadlines for defending users have been suspended. [[Protests]] Otherwise, they would have entered the transparency portal and seen it. [[Applauds]] We would just have to say that on the transparency portal we could also ask Mrs Ayuso, about irregular contracts, about advisers, about public services in which she does not invest, about nothing, absolutely nothing. This is what you intend to do, what you have done all the time: read it, try to confuse the citizen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Andres. He's running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u196	Okay. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u197	Thank you very much. Sections 15, Finance; 10, Centralised contracting; and 38, Territorial financing systems The next item is the debate on sections 15, Ministry of Finance; 10, centralized recruitment; 38, financing systems for territorial entities. For the presentation of the sections, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u198	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I appear today to defend sections 10, 15 and 38 of the General Budgets of the State. They correspond to the Centralized Contract, the Ministry of Finance and the Territorial Financing System, respectively. However, first of all, I would like to appeal once again to the sense of responsibility of all your ladies and gentlemen, to the generosity and ability to look up to understand that we are at an extraordinary time which therefore requires extraordinary answers. It is time to show what solutions each of the political formations present in this House poses so that we can all overcome the worst economic and social crisis in our recent history. That is why I would like to thank all the groups that have advanced their readiness to support these public accounts, overcoming sterile debates, far removed from the reality and needs of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already said that giving the affirmative vote to these budgets is not synonymous with supporting the government or sharing its political project. In fact, it is reasonable that budget projects have external support, at least that is what has been done throughout history, primarily when there has been no absolute majority. It is good that this is the case to enrich the content and obtain greater social and political support. Because that's what this is about, ladies and gentlemen. In short, what we want is to have a willingness to add sensitivities, all of them different, and a capacity for dialogue and consensus to agree on where the country has to walk, generating stability and, in turn, trust and, above all, prioritizing the general interest. We have always done so when we have faced crucial moments and, without a doubt, this is so. It is precisely this Sunday that we will celebrate here in this House the anniversary of the referendum on the Constitution, which was born of a broad consensus among political representatives four decades ago. A consensus on the need to agree on the fundamental norm of coexistence that protects our rights and freedoms and that allows us to overcome a stage of division and backwardness and face a future of unity and progress. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are at an equally decisive moment because, unfortunately, Spain as a whole is facing a very difficult situation after the outbreak of this pandemic. The answer is not in accounts that were designed three years ago, specifically in 2018. Therefore, supporting budgets at this time is a public service to citizens, to our country, to a country that we represent each and every one of us. On the other hand, to say is not to ignore the reality and needs of millions of compatriots. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us push these accounts forward for economic recovery and also to share the importance of strengthening health, education or dependence; ultimately, of shielding the welfare state. We need to be able to take this opportunity to reactivate the sectors most affected by this crisis, accelerating the major transformations that we have been facing for a long time. Now we face an unprecedented moment to be able to approach them and capillaryize them to the whole territory. I enter, ladies and gentlemen, into the contents of the sections and inform you, first of all, of the Ministry of Finance. The ministry's non-financial expenditure for 2021 amounts to 2719 million, 145 more than the initial homogenized budget for 2020. Chapter 1 represents 351 million, an additional 4.30 %, in order to respond, on the one hand, to the updating of the salaries of the Ministry's staff and its seconded agencies and, on the other, to the incorporation of officials from the public employment offer for the years 2018 and 2019. Chapter 2 amounts to 80 million, with an increase of more than 8 million. This heading covers both the actions planned for the charge to the AIReF with regard to the tax monitoring rate and for the review of public expenditure, so that in 2021 the reports that result in the efficiency of this expenditure are prepared. There are also measures planned to improve the Economic and Financial Information Centre. The current transfers chapter has an allocation of 2076 million, an additional 5.8%, being quantitatively the chapter in the budget of expenditure that increases the most. In this section, it would highlight the 95 million increase in the transfer to the Spanish Radio and Television Corporation with the aim of compensating the public service as a result of the issuance of the Tokyo Olympic Games, as well as the compensation for changes in VAT regulations and for salary revisions resulting from the 2018 agreement between the Government and trade unions for the improvement of public employment. The budgetary appropriations to cover expenses arising from the State's responsibilities are provided with 500 million, a figure similar to that reflected in the previous accounts. With regard to internal current transfers, they are intended to finance the operating costs of the State Mobile Park, the Institute of Fiscal Studies and the Tax Agency. It is precisely about the Tax Agency that I would like to highlight that the transfer of the ministry is increasing by 1.77% from the core budget, which shows the commitment of this Executive to the extraordinary work of the agency in the voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations, but especially in the fight against tax fraud and customs fraud. [[The lady]] In relation to actual investments, it is necessary to highlight the items for the acquisition and renovation of computer equipment and the projects of impulse to the electronic administration, with about 30.5 million euros, assuming an increase of just over 4 million. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of continuing to adapt daily activity to the non-faced working model, so that the most vulnerable groups can continue to carry out their usual work without having to travel to the office, ensuring in any case the accessibility of the citizens to the services and to the efforts. We have already made an important effort this year, and we will be following the one that has been betting on the digitisation of the administration and the technological renewal of the systems, especially, ladies and gentlemen, those related to the management of European funds. This is as a result of the 27 billion package that feeds these items, which, as you will understand, is important to absorb and therefore monitor their implementation. As for State Heritage, rehabilitation works will be carried out in the former branch of the Banco de España in Soria, in the building of the Plaza del Marqués de Salamanca, in Madrid, and construction works will be undertaken for a new administrative building in Cadiz to concentrate different units and save the leases. Similarly, credit for the contracting portal is increased to a total of 4.5 million with the aim of improving this system to allow the aggregation of public information in different portals or concertation platforms, to increase the transparency of this portal. Other actions under chapter 6 include the technological modernization of the Central Economic and Administrative Tribunal and the Independent Office for the Regulation and Supervision of Procurement. For its part, Chapter 7 highlights a credit of 12 million to meet the share that corresponds to the AGE according to the statutes of the Consortium Valencia 2007. It also provides for the budgets of regular funding funds for the territorial entities with the novelty of a new compartment, which is endowed with 8 billion to provide the communities with funding bridge for the implementation of the operational programmes associated with the European Union RIAD until the funds of the Union are received after certification. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, let me highlight this Government's firm commitment to our territorial and competitive model. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has undoubtedly been a huge challenge for the autonomous state, with its successes and difficulties, because it has been necessary to fatten cooperation mechanisms, to invent and innovate in those of co-governance, which have been unprecedented and we have been learning in our own way. But above all, there is no doubt about the Government's support in these months for the territories. I can literally tell you that we have turned to ensuring that the territorial entities have sufficient funding to enable them to continue to provide the essential public services that are the pillars of the welfare state. They know that the pandemic has caused these territorial entities not only to bear greater pressure on spending, but also to receive less income from the brake on economic activity. To alleviate this situation, the Government has put in place a set of measures that have no precedent in our democratic history. We have updated the deliveries on account, the tax rules have been suspended, an unconditional extraordinary fund has been activated with 16 billion, which has meant the greater transfer of resources from the Government to the autonomous communities, on the margins or in parallel with their financing system. Overall, by 2020, autonomous communities have increased their resources by almost 22%, thanks to this update of both deliveries and the COVID Fund. By 2021 these record figures will be exceeded, reaching a financing of 146 008 million. In particular, the resources of the financing system will reach 113 729 million by 2021, a figure almost similar to 2020 and will therefore alleviate these financing elements. Secondly, the autonomous communities will have an additional transfer, outside this system, of 13,486 million, which the Government has already included in the draft budgets. Thirdly, the communities will have access to 18,793 million funds from the European Union, of which 10,793 million are from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and 8000 from the RIAD Fund, which will be directly integrated into the autonomous budgets. For our part, we from the Government argue that local entities are called upon to have a special role in recovery. This is why resources in the budgets increase by 9.5 % compared to 2020. On the one hand, the total amount of State tax participation of local entities amounts to 19,931 million, 1.9% more than in 2020. On the other hand, they will have access to 1483 million from European funds. Although, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the most important measure for these entities is the possibility of using the remnants, a historic demand that can be met once the Stability Pact clause in force for the years 2020 and 2021 has been activated. Together with this, we will maintain the extraordinary funding mechanisms articulated through the Local Entities Financing Fund, with a budget of 1 billion as in previous years, articulating support measures for those entities with special financial imbalances. I conclude my speech by making a brief reference to section 10, which is dedicated to centralized recruitment with 380 million. The aim is to improve centralized recruitment processes, streamline management and thereby achieve greater efficiency in public spending with significant savings as a result of this aggregate demand. Under this heading, $70 million is earmarked for the renovation of the mobile fleet to incorporate non-emission vehicles. We contribute in this way to improving environmental sustainability, but in turn to boosting and supporting the automotive industry, as reflected in the shock plan presented by the President of the Government just a week ago. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, this initial idea to finish my words. This is an exceptional budget for a country that now needs new solutions. Please do not make the reading easy in terms of support or not for this Government. These are country accounts that can ostensibly help us through a very important crisis, the most important of recent years, and get out of it in better conditions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to broaden the focus, the objective of these budgets is not who supports them, but what the accounts provide to solve the problems of citizens, to give them certainty and to provide opportunities, which is what is expected of the political leaders we are here representing them. They are still in time to reconsider their position, do so, ladies and gentlemen, show that they are up to what the country needs and show that the general interest is above any other partisan interest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u199	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good afternoon. In yesterday's plenary we discussed the title of the fiscal measures that these budgets have. My group has tabled many amendments with the intention of helping as far as taxation is concerned the self-employed, the businesses, the new entrepreneurs and all the citizens, amendments very necessary in order not to leave anyone behind, but not to leave them for real, because with these budgets a lot of people are left behind you say what you say. Most of these fiscal measures were vetoed and none were supported by the parties supporting the Government. The truth is that I don't know what I'm surprised about, because you have already made it clear that you only vote in favour of your proposals and those of your partners. As my colleague, María Muñoz, has made perfectly clear yesterday and today, you only vote for whom she presents them, not what she presents herself and if it is something positive for all the Spaniards. Since some of our amendments in the area of taxation have remained alive - very few - this intervention must be aimed at defending them once again, because it will be the last opportunity to be able to do so and to see if the rest of the parliamentary groups so decide to support them. One of them seeks that the Tax Agency prepare a report for the evaluation of the economy submerged in Spain. An official analysis and assessment of the submerged economy in our country, of tax and labour fraud and of tax evasion, broken down by territory, economic sectors and taxes, should be carried out and collected in a report that gathers the actual data on all those revenues that are beyond the control of the Tax Agency. This report should be entrusted to a committee composed of independent experts. Different studies estimate the weight of the economy submerged in Spain at around 25% of the gross domestic product, a figure significantly higher than that of other countries in our environment. Spain suffers from 65 % of the economy that is submerged more than the European average and it is estimated that because of it our public coffers stop entering 90 million euros. If we could officially quantify the submerged economy, we could design a medium- and long-term strategy to reduce it, and it would certainly be a great boost to the continuous improvement in assessing the efficiency of the Tax Agency according to the level of collection of the submerged economy achieved in a temporary period. Another amendment we want to try to make is to increase the staffing of the Tax Agency. Spain holds the penultimate position in the European ranking of the number of employees in the European tax administrations in relation to the total population and the labour force, according to the latest OECD tax administrations report. Each tax employee in Spain has a burden of between 632 and 706 citizens respectively more than the weighted average of the European Union and the euro area, but with the data of January 2019, 15.8% of tax agency employees are very close to retirement and more than half of the workforce, 54.9%, is between fifty and sixty years old. This ageing situation of the staff of the State Financial and Tax Administration places Spain in the penultimate position in the senior ranking among the twenty-three countries of the European Union that have such information. It would be very interesting if these people, who already have experience in the administration of the Tax Agency, had time to delegate and teach people to come to those posts later. All this knowledge acquired during the years of service delivery within the Administration must be used. Spain would have to have between 15 000 and 17 500 new troops to halve the size of the economy submerged in Spain. This requires annual calls gradually for eight or ten years to ensure equal, merit and capacity access to the Public Service; calls that are required to improve the public service. Finally, we also wanted to highlight an amendment with which we want to end the dispute over the tax on economic activities to which the large specialised areas must benefit. It creates legal uncertainty for these companies not to know from the city council at what type of rate of the tax on economic activities they will be able to benefit and the modifications that have been made in these budgets worsen the situation, in addition to increasing the quotas to be paid on many occasions up to eight times more. The latter will harm populations of less than 5000 if this change materializes. Our amendment is to amend it, because the survival of these large areas of specialized sales will be very difficult in these places, in places where their activity is almost strategic because they give employment to a lot of people in populations with fewer inhabitants but where much more employment is needed. As you see, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we do not propose intractable things, we do not ask for ideological counterparties or scandalous measures. We ask them for sensible things, because Citizens have worked from the very beginning to achieve focused and useful budgets that would lead to a country response to the crisis we are experiencing. It's a shame they haven't decided to bring in accounts that are less charged with ideologies and separatist counterparts. Too bad, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE! Let's see how they explain this to all the Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the BNG has tabled various amendments to this section with the aim of improving these budgets by incorporating forecasts that we believe are fundamental, although unfortunately we are not showing any interest on the part of the Government in studying and incorporating them. In the first place, we propose an increase of 4.5 million in the departure for the Consortium of Santiago to face actions of rehabilitation and improvement of the habitability in the old city of Compostela. Secondly, we are submitting an amendment to reserve 6% of what is allocated to Spanish Broadcasting for the acquisition of film rights for the purchase of audiovisual production in Galician and other official languages other than Spanish. It seems to us right that a television we pay for among all, including Galicians and Galicians, pay attention to the culture produced in our language and support our audiovisual production. This proposal is complemented by two amendments to Section 24 to increase the Cinematography Fund from EUR 70 million to EUR 100 million and to activate a specific support line for audiovisual productions in Galicia and other official languages. We also tabled amendments to recover Radio 4 Galicia, which ceased its broadcasts in 1991, and to increase the programming of Radiotélévision Española in Galicia in our language; also to establish a cooperation agreement with the Portuguese Government for the reception in Galicia of Portuguese radios and televisions. By the way, they are all commitments contained in the investiture agreement that the Socialist Party signed with the BNG and which, therefore, must comply, although, as I said, unfortunately we are showing little interest in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President. This morning, in the debate in the Transport section, I had to thank sincerely and deeply the People's Party and the citizens who have endorsed the compromise amendments, which we already tabled in 2018 when they adopted their budget, and who vote with fervor undisguised our amendments in the Commission. If they had approved them in 2018, or before, today they would not need to be resubmitted. In any case, thank you for your radical change of position and for admitting that Compromís was right when presenting them. Madam Minister, we will vote in favour of these budgets, unlike those approved by the People's and Citizens' Party, because these are better, and I have no choice but to acknowledge it. There are significant incorporations of the investiture document that you signed with Compromises, plus the amendments that we have negotiated, a few. However, there are things that remain to be done. One would be the distribution of those 13,400 million, as you know it. We have tabled an amendment, which you will not accept, in order to establish a levelling fund for all the autonomous communities that are below the average and that do not have the same resources to fight the pandemic. It is a reasonable amendment. In any case, we call for the criteria to be adopted to help alleviate inequality, which is what the general budgets should be for. I'm done. Public services, speaking of equality, provide people, but all communities do not have the same public employees to provide such services. We therefore ask you in our amendment something that is fair, and that is that the autonomous communities that are below the average are not subject to any replacement rate, so that they can provide services to citizens of the same quality. It is a reasonable amendment. I know you won't approve, but keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u207	You. Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u208	Minister, you're about to approve your first budget. In the end, they will end up adopting it with a broad majority, and that means two things: that there is an important part of this Chamber that is willing to negotiate in a complex situation, a health crisis, a social crisis and an economic crisis, and also that the Government has had sufficient capacity to negotiate and reach agreements. Policy is agreements and agreements are divestitures. Obviously, this is not the budget we would have liked or had done, it is obvious, but, after the transactions and the agreements, we are going to vote in favour. Even so, we have discrepancies, and we have stated this in the amendments, with regard to some aspects of tax rules, not to oppose any increase in taxes, since we understand that taxes may sometimes rise, but to improve some aspects. For example, sugar drinks could have been otherwise acted on or the VAT change in the specialized trade should have been remedied. We had tabled some amendments to attract talent for the purposes of the IRPF which I believe are important and which we are going to take up again in any subsequent legislative initiative. But, in any case, I repeat, it is the agreements. But let me still comment on two things. They have a challenge. Approval of the budgets was already very important, but the challenge - it was told this morning to the Minister of Development, but it could also be said to the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Science - is to implement these budgets. And in this exercise the government will have few excuses. You will have budgets drawn up by yourselves and you will have a whole budget year to develop them. It is true that we are starting it in a pandemic situation, that we hope it can be resolved throughout this budget year, but you have the responsibility to implement it, and we, who have agreed these budgets and we stand in opposition, will remind you of the need, because, after all, if these budgets are implemented, they will be much better than they seem to us now, and, if they are not properly implemented, they will surely seem much worse than they seem to us now. I finish, because we're in the section we're in, Minister. These budgets for the territorial authorities for 2021 I think are correct and it is the ones that were needed at this time. But you know that we have two issues ahead: the COVID fund for municipalities, this fund that, from our perspective, should be distributed among all municipalities, and the fund for municipal public transport. We hope, we trust - we are convinced that it will be so - that before the end of the year the municipalities, I don't know if by Christmas - before Christmas would be desirable - also have a joy, because they deserve it and need it. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u210	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Madam Minister, these budgets will pass into history as the most expensive and painful for Spain; unreal figures agreed with those who defend separatists and terrorists; budgets that will undoubtedly bring more debt, more deficit, more unemployment and more taxes: the perfect storm. Budgets that are drawn up with absolutely outdated forecasts, as the Bank of Spain, the AIReF, the European Commission and the IMF have already told you. Ladies and gentlemen, who think we're going to grow by 9.8%? It was precisely today that the OECD halved it to 5%. And you budget a historical record of collection. That is, GDP in free fall. We have 120 000 companies less, 70 000 jobs less and you budget that tax revenues are going to grow by 13%. What little credibility! How can they justify this rise in taxes by saying that it is for the pandemic, to meet social spending, if it is the same rise in taxes of 2019, when there were no pandemic or COVID? The government of lies. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest public debt in history, which will undoubtedly affect the welfare state and which will continue to pay its grandchildren and mine. Well, despite rising debt, rising taxes and European funds, the budget deficit or hole for the years 2020 and 2021 could be EUR 250 billion. We will receive 140 billion European funds in six years and you almost double the amount in just two years, and also with an unemployment rate that, according to the Bank of Spain, will continue to rise and will exceed 20%. The PSOE in its purest state, ladies and gentlemen. The amendments of the People's Party that you have vetoed are a rule of law discrimination. Why do they accept the PNV amendments so that the diesel does not go up and they do not accept the amendments of the People's Party so that taxes do not go up? It's an act of cowardice. They are ashamed to vote against lowering the VAT on masks, the zero quota for self-employed people and raising the salaries of health personnel and the Security Forces and Corpses. Minister, you lied to all the Spaniards with the VAT on the masks, you lied. This surgical mask does not have the reduced VAT. And we've already asked you for the 0% VAT for all the masks, not just the surgical ones. [[Applauds]] Go with this government of the left and the far left! How much we are missing the socialists of the past, the real socialists, the older ones that you now want to silence; not these new socialists, these populists who make alarming concessions to separatist partners and friends of terrorists, such as pardons, rapprochements of prisoners, the marginalization of Spanish. Arrested for budgets, Minister. Do you remember when I told you a couple of months ago? I told him and he didn't answer anything. Arrested for budgets, which, of course, will always haunt them. You have vetoed our amendments to ensure that there is a transport deficit fund for local authorities, that there is a COVID fund of EUR 4 billion for municipalities, to participate in European funds, so that the government will once and for all return VAT, EUR 25 billion to the autonomous communities and local authorities. But the Government is leaving the municipalities and the autonomous communities again. You have fulminated the credibility of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. They have betrayed the municipalities, deceived the mayors and even the very Abel Knight. I understand you don't raise your head, Minister. It's embarrassing what they're doing with the city halls! I will simply say one thing to the VOX Group: If you had been present in the Committee on Budgets, we would have been able to lower the VAT on masks, lower the VAT on hairdressers and lower the VAT on sugary and sweetened drinks. Work and responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Spain is the only country in the European Union that is going to raise taxes, but not to the rich, to the middle and working classes. Or is it that those who drink yogurt are rich? Or are those who drink a sugary drink rich? Or those with home insurance? Ladies and gentlemen, what will be raised by the increase of the IRPF to high incomes, to the rich, is 144 million euros. Do you know how much you're going to collect with the VAT on sugary drinks? Double, 340 million euros. And how much are you going to raise with the insurance premiums? The triple, 455 million euros. They lie. The government of lies. And it's all right with the mantra that the People's Party raised taxes. We raised taxes because we found 90 billion euros of deficit and a country that Mr Zapatero left in ruin after making the biggest cut in the welfare state, when they frozen pensions, reduced the salaries of officials by 5%, eliminated the baby check, left Social Security bankrupt, the drawers full of invoices and also raised VAT, tax on savings and the IRPF. [[applause]] Well, in 2014 we lowered taxes, not the rich. We lower the minimum IRPF rate from 24 to 19 %, which is not for the rich. Revenues of less than EUR 14 000 were exempt from the IRPF, which is not for the rich. We lower the cultural VAT, which is not for the rich. And we cut corporate tax from 30% to 25%. And you know what happened? The increase in collection and the creation of more jobs. That is the DNA of the People's Party, that is the economic model of the People's Party. Yesterday was said by a Member of the People's Party who are still taxed for going up. Of course there are taxes to go up, and autonomous ones to close and companies to run away! Communist lords, it's good enough to suffocate us at taxes! Make a rationalization plan, reduce public spending, reduce advisors, which we have the most expensive and numerous government in history! Ladies and gentlemen, shame should give you that a separatist party, a party that wants to break Spain comes to tell us what taxes we have to raise in the rest of Spain. Shame on tax harmonisation! Minister, you've been a counselor in Andalusia. Tell the Andalusians, those 8300 families who each year had to give up their inheritance, that little step and those savings that they had inherited from their parents after a lifetime job, that they are going to reimpose the tax on inheritances and donations that eliminated Juanma Moreno and the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Is that tax harmonization, Minister, to raise taxes on the Spanish in exchange for a handful of spotted votes? I tell you that from the People's Party we will continue to lower taxes to compensate for the economic destruction of these budgets, which, of course, are the most expensive and painful in history, which will ruin Spain again; the budgets of the new socialists plus the communists plus the separatists plus the friends of the terrorists. You are, of course, the perfect storm. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Spain. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u212	Good afternoon again. I said before that these were necessary budgets; I said that and many speakers have said that, that is, it is not a novelty. What seems clear is that it is not logical that in the year 2021 we continue with the budgets of the year 2018. Moreover, from a general point of view, the two broad lines of these budgets I think are not bad at all. And, despite what the People's Party says, there are things they even agree on; they don't say it here, but they say it elsewhere. First of all, they are an expansive budget. Everyone agrees that expansionary budgets are needed: it will increase investment and, of course, it will increase public and social spending. Who doesn't want social spending to increase? I believe that even those who have been criticising it agree on these two major issues, on which they are expansive and which greatly increase social spending, because it is not necessary to remember the situation in which we are, that is, this crisis and this depression that we have at the moment. On the other hand, public spending, in addition to increasing investment, ends up returning to the citizens' pocket. It is necessary - it is also true - to spend it well. And from the income point of view, which logically needs to be balanced, there is an injection that comes from Europe, a very important injection that allows it. I do not know whether it is worth the negotiation of the President, whether it has been little or much, but, in the end, almost no one has criticized that the figure that comes from Europe is manageable. And there is also an increase in taxes, but it is very moderate, there are no large increases. It is true that there is a very optimistic macroeconomic scenario and that, in order to make it effective, you have to be very vigilant with the collection. That is why you have a very difficult task this year, because budgetary management, real budget implementation is no longer on paper, but rather in collecting what is planned. And if the scenario fails, you will have to make a great effort in the collection, reinforcing the services, chasing the fraud harder, because there is always a possible bag there. And it happens the same from the expense side. The budgetary implementation of expenditure this year is also going to be very complicated, first because there are new developments; second, because there is a government with many ministers and inexperienced managers, and third, because the machinery is degreased. The Administration, to spend, needs greased machinery. Then, it will also have a very big difficulty from an operational point of view. In other words, it seems to us, roughly speaking, that the budgets on paper are fine. But then let's see what reality is. [[The lady]] With regard to the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, we have a commitment to the Socialist Party, an agreement both for the government in Cantabria and for this one, and the truth is that it is well reflected in the budgets nominally. Of the eighteen commitments we had written, sixteen are well reflected; two are not, but sixteen more or less are well. They're not all satisfactory. It is also true that the pandemic was not present when we signed it. There are time frames that, logically, cannot be met, but there are other issues that are more or less reflected. It is true that in some parts they are scarce, but I would also like to thank you that in the whole debate, when I made a complaint to you and asked you for a compromise for the debate, you said that you were going to collect a number of partial amendments, and it is true that they have been collected and we have also agreed with the Socialist Party, and that is 75%. We are not satisfied, because we still have seven living amendments, but we must especially thank you for including the Valdecilla game, a game in which you have included both 2021 and those that were not paid for in 2019 and 2020, as well as for the first time a small, though symbolic, game for the La Pasiega polygon, which is small but represents and affirms Cantabria's commitment. We still have a few partial amendments on water. In the previous speech, with the Minister for Territorial Policy - I take it that any minister or minister is here to talk to you about all the amendments, because I do not intervene in all of them - I am referring to them. That said, on paper it's not bad if it's done. But one thing is reality and another is smoke. Not long ago we had a minister from another party who put figures in the budgets that laughed, for example, when you saw the contract he had of a construction company for a million and had put in seventeen, and that the contract was signed before; in fact, there it appeared, in the games, although then it was not spent. We are going to do the cotton test this year near which you really want to fulfill Cantabria this time, which you are not going to say yes to everything and then, at the time of truth, the year ends and it has not been done, so I pray you are far above your companions. Other issues, which are from another section, are still unresolved, but it must be remembered that they are very important, such as European funds, for example for Solvay the decarbonisation funds, or the prices of the electro-intensive. And there's a matter that I remind you of because you're going to chase him through the whole legislature and you should attack him, which is the subject of VAT. Look for a mechanism. You've missed some chance, and while you don't solve it, you're going to have all the municipalities and many parties complaining about it. In short, we know the difficulty of budgets. He's got merit in moving them forward. The State has an obligation to ensure, on the one hand, security and, on the other, public services. I just want to say that you do not demonise the private initiative, which produces wealth, which ultimately has most of the revenue, and do not question privately managed public services, which are also public services and are very effective. Then, go to the practical, go to the real, because at the same time you will reach the social. Let's see what happens. Looks like Congress is gonna be over. We will maintain the Senate's amendments. And I hope we have budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communo Podemos-Galicia En Communo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u214	Good night. I announce to you that I will be pious to your ladies and gentlemen, that is, I will be brief, although I will make some comments. Madam Queen Spain, the truth is that what you said here today, in this rostrum, is nothing new. In fact, perhaps it has been repeated a little, or too much, or like garlic. You could have had the delicacy of talking about one of the sections, 10, 15 or 38 of this point, a little bit, just to disguise. You didn't even say mu. Anyway, you'll see; a missed opportunity for your group, sorry! In any case, in the package of three sections that we discussed at this point, I will highlight the elements that, in the opinion of our group, are most interesting to understand the orientation that has inspired the design of these budgets. With regard to Section 10 on centralised recruitment, the 34 % increase in the latter compared with the last budget should be noted. It is mainly due to the new allocation of this €70 million in real investments, i.e. a clear commitment to respond to the economic contraction caused by the crisis with public compensation intended to generate the conditions for an effective and sustained recovery over time, i.e. a new example of the countercyclical nature of these budgets. With regard to Section 15, this has a consolidated budget of 34.5 billion, i.e. 13.2 billion more than in the previous budget, an increase of nothing more and nothing less than 62%. This is mainly due to an increase in the capital contribution to the Autonomous Communities Funding Fund, which now has about 13 billion more than before. It is a endowment that must be used to shield fundamental services at a time of sharp fall in autonomous revenues due to the effects of COVID. This gives continuity to the Executive's commitment to the autonomous communities to ensure the resources needed to deal with the pandemic, and I say continuity because last week, if I am not mistaken, the ministerial orders establishing the distribution of the remaining 8 billion of the COVID Fund were already published in the BOE, culminating in the delivery of the EUR 16 billion initially committed by this Government. [[The Lord]] This section also includes a substantial increase in the budget belonging to the Tax Agency, which increases by 8.4% to 16 billion. As stated in the legislative text, this increase is intended - and I quote - to improve voluntary compliance with tax obligations and, to this end, action is being taken both to inform and assist citizens and to combat tax and customs fraud. If we take into account that the state loses around EUR 40 billion a year because of tax fraud, we can conclude that there is no better investment than this one we are talking about, not only for quantitative or collective purposes, but also because of the powerful cultural message behind this measure: whoever disappoints does not disappoint the minister or the agency, disappoints all the Spanish and Spanish. The work of the agency and its workers will be fundamental in the coming years, of which I have no doubt, because the effectiveness of the agency is a sine qua non condition for economic recovery not to take place, as always, at the expense of the weakest, for all of us to bow our shoulders according to our capabilities, thus equalizing efforts. But also from my group we think that another of the fundamental elements to optimize the resources allocated to this task would be the creation of a superior technical body of Finance, in which would be integrated the different technical bodies that today operate in the ministry. Unfortunately, it is not something we have yet been able to agree on, but we are confident that we will soon convince the ministry of the goodness of this measure. Finally, with regard to section 38, on the financing of territorial entities, the increase in the budget allocation by 4.6%, to almost EUR 40 billion, should be highlighted. In any case, transfers received from the State by the territorial authorities are not exhausted by those made from credits under this section, as they also receive transfers from other sections, such as 37, other financial relations with territorial authorities, or 36, inter-territorial compensation funds. In short, between the financing system, the extraordinary transfers and the management of half of the European funds, the communities will receive a total of 146 billion euros next year, which is a historic maximum for an extraordinary moment. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see these resources not as a triumph, but as an opportunity, an opportunity that opens up for us to get out of the stumbling block that we are in. Let's be smart and take advantage of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u215	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u216	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Minister. This is the budget section for the ministry that brought us the budgets of ruin. In view of the obvious reality of drawing up budgets to ensure that the Spanish productive fabric, active jobs, the purchasing capacity of citizens and the sustainability of essential public services are preserved, the Government is bringing to this House budgets of the so-called transformation, which aim to make in one year the structural reforms that would take several years. It has funds that will not reach Spain at least until next summer, if they arrive; they do not define the action plans for the so-called productive transformation; they do not present any coordination for the allocation of funds to projects by the autonomous communities, with different legislations, and that must be audited by the European Commission, and they forget the traditional productive sectors, in favour of productive sectors in many immature cases; and they do not strengthen the essential public services to cope with the pandemic and economic crisis. The Ministry of Finance, which is the government's aircraft carrier, you're taking him to the North Pole to see if you can find tropical palm trees. They are not using the material and personal infrastructures available to their ministry to get Spain out of this crisis with solvency and rigour. They have directly paralysed the process of reforming public administrations. Not a single measure from his ministry aimed at further rationalizing public structures, nor a public body less nor a lower expenditure on efficiencies. On the contrary, they have budgets that cover useless expenses and create new ones. What are you doing with the General Directorate of Rationalization and Centralized Recruitment? They have budgeted around 100 million more for the general management to buy electric cars - very urgent -, 11 million more euros in computer equipment, 6 million euros more in cleaning and toilet, and 40 million euros more in communications. Where are the savings that this general address is supposed to provide? It has been regrettable that this Government has managed to purchase PPE in the state of alarm. Each ministry making its purchases, buying faulty tests, awarding contracts to companies that had never devoted themselves to these tasks. And yet, what was the Directorate General of Recruitment doing then? How much savings does the Government estimate to be achieved in 2021 with this management of the Directorate-General? Not a single estimate at the moment. And it is that you have no intention of improving spending, and, as income does not cover your waste, you blame the citizen, ensuring that he does not pay enough taxes. I think you're confusing rationalisation with cuts, and one of you has already left here this afternoon again with the 2008 crisis, with the bank bailout. I'm still waiting for some MP from the sinister to expose the list of rescued banks. Oh, no, it was the savings boxes, those badly managed by politicians, which they had to rescue! Yeah. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to give you a couple of ideas. For starters, they can call the Institute of Tax Studies to advise them on how to collect better and how to achieve greater fiscal efficiency, which for this they have injected more than 13 million euros, twice, without giving an explanation on the particular. They can then present a rebalancing plan, which should have been submitted on 20 November, although the State Secretariat for Budgets and Expenditures and the Finance Secretariat made it clear in their appearance in this House that the plan is not and is not expected of them, despite the fact that the AIReF has already requested that they present it and comply with what is mandated by law. But, of course, in the purest Stasi style, you have rewarded the independence of the AIReF and its good judgment by removing the i of independent. How? Passing the budget application of more than 1.5 million euros from internal transfers to another chapter 2 from the very heart of his ministry. For VOX will always be faced with the elimination of the independence of this body and of any other body that tells the truth to the Government. [[Applauds]] I think you're also confusing breaking tax rules with doing what you want. And I'm going to talk to you about RTVE. The transfer of the Spanish taxpayer to the Corporation Radiotelevision is increased by 38%, which means that each Spanish has to pay almost 3 euros more, 2.76 precisely, to see the government's propagandistic newscasts. To continue to increase the subsidy to an entity that has only symbolic benefits, thanks to the contribution of the State, I think it is to laugh at all the Spaniards, who suffer for arriving dignifiedly at the end of the month. In what family or company do you think income will grow by 38% next year? I don't think so. Finally, I would like to link all the above with the real problem of political spending of this nation, which is the autonomous communities, which together with section 38 are more than EUR 50 billion; between sufficiency funds, compensation funds, to win me the PNV favors with the work of tobacco and Republican Esquerra with the Mossos d'Esquadra, the cost of managing resources and the entropy generated by the costs associated with budgetary allocations, political spending, political spending - and I say it three times - the political spending of the autonomous communities represents the greatest economic advantage that can exist in this nation. Look, I'm going to offer you a recipe, if you want to take it: correct fiscal policy, bring in a rebalancing plan, establish the basic principles of fiscal efficiency to improve the marginal cost of public funds and implement a zero-based methodology for budgeting. Only then can we support budgets that generate wealth and prosperity for Spain. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u218	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, first of all, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to convey to the Minister of Finance, to your entire team and to all the workers of the ministry our congratulations on the great work done and on the result achieved. [[Applauds]] They have made it possible to draw up an exceptional budget that gives extraordinary solutions and responses to citizens in an unprecedented context caused by a global health crisis with severe economic and social effects. To do so in a scenario of as much uncertainty as the current one, in the midst of the pandemic and with such a fragmented Parliament is undoubtedly a challenge worthy of any recognition. So, thank you so much for the enormous effort and, above all, for the tireless dedication you have. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, citizens already need new budgets, because the greatest risk we have is not being able to implement the measures envisaged and the European funds incorporated into them. Budgets that focus on measures to contain the pandemic, reactivate the economy and strengthen the state of economic and social protection. Some budgets, ladies and gentlemen, which should be approved by the whole of this House at a time as difficult as the current one, but there is too much demagogy, over-action and very bad intention on the part of the right wing of this House to make that possible. [[Rumors]] Since the day one of the legislature decided to boycott the Government as it were, and the COVID crisis has only intensified its destructive opposition, using the pandemic as a bold weapon against the Government. It is evidence that your criticisms are nourished by disloyalty and malice and I refer to the evidence. The People's Party has had no shame in going to Europe and trying to frustrate the European funds for Spain. It has proved unable to vote in favour of the declaration of the country's emergency situation, which precisely freed the accumulated remnants. And in his amendment to return to this section, section 15, there was not a simple reference to the COVID crisis, nor a mere mention of its changing effects on the economy; quite a despondency. That is why I am fully in favour of this amendment which you have tabled. Look, doubting the forecast of revenue from the macroeconomic table estimates made by the Government is part of the budgetary debate, in fact, it has always been done. But what does not enter into the honest and decent debate is that the Government is accused of deception or trilers, obviating the very serious situation of the pandemic and the changing environment as the current one. Uncertainty is so high that organisms do not dare to make forecasts without going to possible scenarios, as their predictions are changing day by day. In fact, AIReF has submitted several estimates according to different scenarios, but the Government can only opt for a single estimate for the preparation and presentation of budgets. And as much as it hurts them, despite the difficulties, the reality is that between the minimum and the maximum of the AIReF estimates are the Government's estimates. So what problem do you have if you're saying they're feasible? But, ladies and gentlemen, uncertainty is not generated by the Government, it is generated by the pandemic. The forecasts will be more or less met depending on their evolution and on the correct implementation of the reactivation measures that the budgets incorporate. Uncertainty means that forecasts can lead to an upward or downward error, as has been demonstrated in the estimates for the third quarter. I remind you that the international consensus made estimates for Spain of 12 or 13 % of GDP growth, and the reality has been 16.7 %. From what he said - he must read all the news -, the OECD has said that it softens the decline in GDP for the current year. Therefore, read the full news, Mrs. Spain. [[Spain Queen shows a leaflet reading: OECD, Spain 50%]] It has been demonstrated with these better realities of the increases in GDP estimates in the third quarter - i.e. none of the estimates have been met and the reality has been much better - the following: first, the rapid reactivation capacity of our economy, and, second, that the government measures taken during these months have been timely and appropriate; they are being an important shield of protection for many businesses and families. Do you know what protection the People's Party gave in 2012 to all families and businesses? None. [[Applauds]] All he did was raise taxes and forgive the fraudsters with a tax amnesty! I'll repeat it as many times as necessary! Stop deceiving the people! Because the reality is that in the face of this crisis, the Government is betting on an intensive mobilization of resources to get out of the crisis as soon as possible, but without renouncing medium-term budgetary stability. To conclude and conclude, what I would like to say to you is that the budget presented is viable, consistent, its estimates are consistent and reflect the confidence of the Government in the potential of this country. The criticisms of the right are only biased, destructive and show above all that they distrust Spain. Second, the budget seeks to strengthen the public system and care for the most vulnerable with reasonable tax rules, as I explained to them yesterday; the right seeks to weaken it and favor those who have more. And third, the budget is useful and essential for the municipalities and for the autonomous communities. Montoro suffocated them, Montero gives them oxygen, so if you want to help them, if you want to help this country, vote in favour of this budget. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-01-CD201201.u219	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and forty minutes of the night.
