ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the vote on the amendments up to and including section 16, in connection with the Commission's opinion on the draft State General Budgets Act for 2021, I would like to inform you that the following amendments have been adopted. To Title VI, Amendment 3031; to additional transitional, derogating and final provisions, Amendments 2077, 2084, 3054, 3056, 3065, 3068, 3089, 3090, 3597, 3598 and 3600; and to Section 16, Ministry of the Interior, Amendment 2423. In addition, the technical correction submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common to the final provision thirty-third; the compromise amendment No. 1 to Amendment No. 3410 of the Joint Parliamentary Group; the compromise amendment No. 2 to Amendment No. 2459 of the Plural Parliamentary Group; the compromise amendment No. 3 to the amendment No. 2485 of the Plural Parliamentary Group; the compromise amendment No. 4 to Amendment No. 3088 of the Republican Parliamentary Group; and the compromise amendment No. 5 to Amendment No. 3118 of the Republican Parliamentary Group have been approved. [[Mr. Quevedo]] [[Mr. Bel]] [[Mr. Bel]] That's all. The second round of voting ends at 11 a.m. We shall therefore announce to you throughout the day the results of those votes. - Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the Year 2021. [[CONTINUATION]] [[File number 121/000035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u2	We continue with the debate in section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. For the presentation of the section, I give the floor to the name of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u3	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum to defend the draft State General Budgets Act with regard to section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, its autonomous agencies and State water societies. And I do so from the point of view of what has been agreed in the Commission procedure, with the incorporation of the amendments that have already been voted on, amendments that do not alter at all the basic orientation and strategic axes of the initial budget of the ministry and do make some territorial adjustments towards certain autonomous communities, which will be able to benefit from the result of the agreement of these amendments. The times we are living in are enormously complex, with a pandemic situation like the current one, with its consequences, which require global, joint, focused responses, and the European Union has understood this by launching the main recovery tool, the Recovery and Resilience Fund. This has also been understood by our country and its Government, which has developed a Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, a plan for economic and social recovery, transformation and modernization of our economy and productive sectors, which allows us to achieve greater resilience to future economic shocks and uncertainties. The budgets we present align themselves with this urgent need to revive the economy, with the ecological and energy transition as one of the most important bases of modernisation and social inclusion, incorporating the necessary items to activate the first measures of the recovery plan as soon as this budget is opened. They are the vehicle for channelling European funds, decisive for this recovery. They form the basis for a new social contract to close gaps in inequality, intergenerational gaps and territorial gaps, which have been increasing over the years. As the Minister of Finance pointed out, it is a real anomaly that we continue with extended budgets for 2018, designed in circumstances that have nothing to do with the current ones and that have been absolutely out of date. And in this scenario, the budget of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge is growing by 132%. We are talking about a budget of EUR 12 307 million, an increase due to the inclusion of appropriations from the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Fund. In the case of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, it amounts to 6805 million euros by 2021, 55% of the department's budget. These figures mean that of the EUR 60 billion that the European Union has planned for Spain in terms of transfers, 10% will be incorporated in the ministry next year, or that of the EUR 27 000 that will be incorporated into the general state budgets, 25% will be managed by the ministry. We are facing a great challenge, but above all a great opportunity for transformation and change in which we must all feel concerned. This is because the European Commission states that, with a view to recovery, the sensible and intelligent thing is that at least 37% of the funds are earmarked for the energy transition and the ecological transition, for climate action. The most important item of expenditure is the just and inclusive energy transition, amounting to €9774 million, of which €5390 corresponds to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The programme entitled Energy Transition, Recovery and Resilience Facility - with €53 billion in Chapter 7 - will target electricity infrastructure, smart grid promotion and storage deployment; measures for sustainable, safe and connected mobility in urban and metropolitan environments; actions to rehabilitate buildings and housing, and urban regeneration in areas of population decline; the overall deployment of renewable energy, including innovative renewables such as marine wind or biogas; actions to boost the energy value chain; and the development of a specific strategy to achieve 100 per cent renewable islands. In this regard, I would like to highlight the 600 million earmarked for green hydrogen as a country project or the other 600 million earmarked for the renovation of buildings and properties of the General Administration of the State, especially in areas linked to the demographic challenge. Of the €5390 million, €90 million, for the Just Transition Institute, aimed at economic dynamism and identifying opportunities and generating employability in areas affected by the closure of thermal and nuclear power plants, it shows more than evident from the Government's commitment to a just and inclusive energy transition. With regard to the Ministry's own budget, the appropriations allocated to the Institute for Diversification and Energy Saving represent an increase of 80% over the 2018 extended budget; in particular, the budget is increased to finance technical assistance, studies and service activities, reflecting the workload related to the proper implementation of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan and the recovery plan, promoting the action of all public and private actors. Taking into account that the European Regional Development Funds transfer expenditure once certified in Chapter 8, the Institute for Diversification and Energy Saving is provided with a credit of up to 300 million for advances to boost renewable energy and energy efficiency. We also increased the allocation of the fund for the thermal social bond, experiencing a 16% increase over the previous year. In the field of mining, a budget of EUR 14.3 million includes various concepts for rehabilitation of mining waste facilities, research in the field of health and safety of extractive work. In addition, we find both current and capital transfers to both the National Commission on Markets and Competition and the Institute for the Fair Transition. Capital transfers, EUR 3597.8 million to the NCMC, are increased by 6%. This increase is due to the incorporation of two new concepts: 202.7 million to compensate for the fall in revenues in the electricity system and in the supply of natural gas resulting from the urgent measures adopted by the Government under Royal Decree 11/2020, the additional urgent measures in the social and economic field to deal with the COVID, that is to say to respond to the prohibition of cuts in supplies that we live in during the months of confinement. As a result of these measures, more than 120 000 self-employed persons and companies have benefited from a reduction in the contracted power of electricity and gas and 30 000 from the temporary suspension of energy supply contracts. I would like to highlight in relation to this item aimed at the liquidation of the costs of the system that the electricity system is designed for a context of high prices and rising demand, a scenario very different from that promoted from the policies of energy transition to which we advance and which leads us to low and competitive prices, dominated by renewables and energy efficiency. It is therefore time for reflection, shared by different sectors and parliamentary groups. That is why, in addition to this budget allocation, I trust that we will soon be able to put forward a proposal to give adequate signals to consumers and investors, signals consistent with the decarbonisation and the necessary energy transition, giving way to stability, to the reliability of investors in the electricity system. On the other hand, one of the first commitments made by this Government in the field of energy is to articulate a just transition that leaves no one behind, as I said before. For this reason, the budget foreseen for the institute, including the 90 million euros of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, is 422.17 million euros, 25.12% more than in the 2019 extended budget. To this figure will be added the European Fair Transition Funds, as well as the funds of other bodies that, like IDAE, prioritize their calls in areas in transition, so the aid for transitional areas will increase considerably. The chapter linked to the economic development of the coal regions is endowed with a budget of 285 million to facilitate the creation of industrial, economic, business and employability opportunities in this area. For the new challenges related to the closure of thermal or nuclear power plants, I would like to highlight that for the first time we have incorporated a budget line of EUR 166 million of government own funds to be transferred to the institute or that for the environmental restoration, through the various spending programmes, will be allocated EUR 121.2 million in mining areas or areas where plants are closed, compared to the EUR 25 million provided for in the previous budget. On the other hand, the ministry's budget includes those allocated to the environment, 2452 million, of which 1415 correspond to the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The general budgets of the State concerning the Secretariat of State for the Environment respond to the commitments that Spain has made at international level, both within the framework of the Paris Agreement and in the implementation of the European Green Pact, and they do so as a safe bet for a better society, for a more reasonable future and with more opportunities for our children and grandchildren. As the Government has pointed out, these budgets will enable us to implement green policies to meet the decarbonization objectives, to build an economy, a society, cities that are much more resilient to the effects of climate change, to ensure the availability of something as precious as water or the protection of biodiversity or our coastline. We modernise our economy, facilitate more intelligent forms of production and consumption, modernise our industrial fabric on the line marked in a transversal way by the 2030 Agenda. The Spanish Climate Change Office addresses among its most immediate challenges the implementation of part of the instruments of the Strategic Framework for Energy and Climate, in particular the recently approved II National Plan for Adaptation to Climate Change or the impetus to the Long-Term Decarbonization Strategy, which marks the path to achieving climate neutrality by 2050. The office has a budget of €24.5 million, which is distributed in lines of support to territorial administrations and the Carbon Fund for support to actions in the area of emission reduction. A plan for the modernization of the State Meteorology Agency is also being discussed, with a budget of more than 144 million euros, because we need to understand, observe and predict the evolution of our climate. More than EUR 20 million is earmarked for the creation of a new generation of weather monitoring network that will provide more accurate weather forecasts and anticipate the emergence of adverse events, thus improving the capacity to plan actions to address the challenges of climate change impacts. For its part, the Directorate-General for Biodiversity, Forests and Desertification is constituted as a new management centre integrating previously dispersed competencies in different areas of the ministry and in other ministries; with a budget of 793 million euros it represents a very important commitment for the improvement of our natural heritage, with a comprehensive approach aligned with the recently approved European Biodiversity Strategy and that will be collected at national level in our future strategic plan for biodiversity. The main lines addressed by this heading are the conservation of biodiversity, both marine and terrestrial, the improvement of knowledge of natural heritage, as well as an important exercise in the restoration of degraded ecosystems, such as wetland recovery, recovery of areas affected by mining or urban green infrastructure. In forestry, forest management and forest mass improvement are promoted and the protection of our natural environment is ensured, particularly in the face of the terrible threat of fires and through the control of international trade in species. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain is one of the hot spots in the illegal trafficking of species. In short, a very ambitious package of actions, which, in addition to addressing the current biodiversity crisis with determination, has a special positive impact on the demographic challenge. For the recovery of degraded spaces, the adaptation of the coast to climate change, the protection and recovery of coastal ecosystems, accessibility, recovery and delimitation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain, nature-based solutions and the protection of the sea, the General Directorate of the Coast and the Sea will have 210 million euros, which will be distributed in actions that aim to increase the resilience of the coast to the effects of climate change by improving its protection, actions for the management of the maritime-terrestrial public domain and the implementation, full operation, of marine strategies and plans for the management of the maritime space. In the Directorate-General for Water, the budget for 2021 amounts to EUR 1780 million and includes the autonomous bodies, i.e. the hydrographic confederations and the Commonwealth of the Taibilla Canals, and the State water, Aquaes and Aquamed societies. I would like to point out that by 2021 the transfers from the Directorate-General for Water to confederations will increase by 42% over the current budget. In this area, the new planning cycle, watershed hydrological plans to be approved in the course of 2021 together with the Flood Risk Management Plan, is in advanced processing process. It is also currently in public consultation and will facilitate the management of the implementation of the budget. The Water Treatment, Sanitation, Efficiency, Saving and Reuse Plan, which our country cannot delay any longer, has been accumulating delays for too long. And I would like to make special mention of the clean-up plan, which is aimed at treating waste water in agglomerations with less than 5000 inhabitants equivalent in the context of the demographic challenge; it is those small centres that need the most help from the State. We need this initiative to maintain its vocation of continuity over time. Initially, this endowment for small municipalities has a specific reserve of 100 million euros. In order to address the implementation of the Spanish Strategy for Circular Economy, the Directorate-General for Quality and Environmental Assessment has a budget of EUR 500 million, practically implemented through transfers to territorial administrations and the industrial sectors, which must strengthen the lines defined as priorities in the strategy through its action, through the transformation of their production systems or the use of new materials. This same Directorate-General incorporates a budget of over EUR 14 million for the protection and improvement of the environment, of which EUR 7 million is earmarked for investments aimed at speeding up the state's environmental assessment procedures. The Government has also identified among its priorities the demographic challenge and the fight against depopulation. It is the first time that a governmental mechanism has been articulated to address the problems of territorial cohesion, and for that reason the General Secretariat for the Demographic Challenge has for the first time a specific item so that from the secretariat itself, through the general budgets, they can facilitate and act as a lever to encourage new investment projects that better understand where and how to test mechanisms that allow us to ensure the effectiveness of each of the items that cross-cuttingly are intended to address this accumulated inequality over decades between citizens depending on where they live. To this item, of 17 million euros for investment projects, are added the funds of the plan of recovery transformation and resilience of the Spanish economy that, through the different chapters, mobilizes more than 25 billion euros in projects focused on economic revival in areas affected by depopulation. The demographic challenge is incorporated across budgets, aligning the actions of all ministerial departments in more than 40 budget programmes to achieve the objectives set out in the National Strategy against the Demographic Challenge. So this budget is a turning point that we want to consolidate not only this year, but also in the years and years ahead. It will be a complex but fundamental and important task and the citizens are waiting for us together. I'm done. We are addressing the present and future of Spaniards and Spaniards, protagonists and recipients of public accounts that seek to give certainty at a time of extraordinary uncertainty; certainty, confidence and hope that we can emerge from this crisis by really laying the foundations for solid, fair, inclusive and sustainable growth; in which we have to move forward in the necessary modernization of our productive system while generating greater social cohesion and fighting accumulated inequalities; in short, in which we work to ensure that no one is left behind. We are going to address an enormously exciting challenge, an unprecedented challenge that will require the mobilization, the proper implementation of an extraordinary amount of resources, including administrative resources, and a regulatory adequacy to reduce potential barriers and speed up procedures to ensure that the development of this set of actions is swift and efficient, without losing any guarantee in relation to the principles of integrity, transparency and accountability or environmental protection. It is imperative that we take advantage of this unique opportunity and that means coordinated work between administrations, with the active participation of the business community and of civil society as a whole. As the President of the Government said, they are unalterable budgets, essential budgets for the modernization and recovery of our economy, and also for justice and equity; they are the budgets that our country needs and, therefore, I ask your ladies and gentlemen to support this section as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to endorse all the amendments by all the participants in the Joint Group to this section and others, if necessary. Section 23, Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, if numbers do not confuse us, increases the budget by approximately 15% over the 2018 financial year, more than 121 million euros. However, the appropriations for the General Secretariat of the Demographic Challenge are only EUR 17 million. In our view, it is a minimum amount, although we certainly hope - we have heard the words of the Minister of Finance - that the programme will grow in the future. We expect it - it is necessary - because 17 million for challenge size seems a negligible amount. It is true, as we are told - and we share it - that the policy of combating depopulation or the demographic challenge can never be a sectoral policy. Indeed, the failure of policies to date in this struggle has been due to their sectoral nature. It is the policy that many of the autonomous communities apply and that they have used other previous governments, above with very small budgetary allocations. Indeed, politics must be cross-cutting and must permeate all ministries, so most of our amendments in this field were aimed at creating an inter-ministerial plan to combat depopulation. These amendments have almost all been vetoed by the Government because they entailed an increase in expenditure; although we had provided a way of including new revenue, it seems that it was not the proper budgetary technique. However, the objective remains that; we believe that the items should be substantially increased and imbued with the entire ministry, and that is why in one of our amendments - a non-economic amendment - we call for a cross-sectional reading of the actions of all ministries and for all this to be given the form of a plan for the reactivation of unpopulated areas, as mandated by this House in a motion adopted in June, so that, on the one hand, we can see the action of the State against depopulation more effectively and, on the other hand, we can monitor its implementation and evaluate the outcome of those policies. We know that this is an important administrative work, but it is worth making a contribution to making the entire action of the State visible, because if not a policy that has been defined as one of the four pillars on which the plan of reactivation and recovery of the country is based would be somewhat blurred in the actions of the various ministries; we believe that it deserves the opportunity of such an overall assessment of the set of actions, as you mentioned a moment ago; I believe that you have spoken of forty measures or forty budget groups. This policy, which is not sectoral, but inter-ministerial, must reflect greater ambition. If any glue we put to the actions that have been described is that we miss a greater ambition. We also recognize that it is the first year that a specific item is applied, the first year that budgets consider the problem to be a problem to be addressed, but we demand greater ambition because the problem is so serious, so - we would say - so profound and complex its solution that we cannot fail to try as hard as possible. Among the amendments that remain alive to this section, we attach particular importance to one that refers to support for public employment of the Administration in the rural world and in areas with depopulation problems. Many positions of public officials or public employees remain un covered, in an interim situation; the person who goes there is unable to settle, so we propose a specific destination supplement to support this maintenance. It is also very important - they are not matters directly from his ministry, but they are very related to him - that, in the face of the abandonment of small peoples by the banking entities, in line with an amendment that presented his group precisely in the Senate, multi-entity cashiers are configured and distributed throughout all localities that cease to have banking services. Special attention - he has also mentioned - deserves us the Just Transition Conventions, as they are perhaps the essential tool for the ecological transition process to be seen by society as an absorbable process and not having a substantial impact on the future of the territories. The future of all workers and the future of economic activity in all the regions concerned must be guaranteed and I must say that we have also missed a greater budget for these agreements here. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u6	I'm sorry, Mr. Guitarte. Wait a second because there's too much rumor in the House. I'm asking for a little silence, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u7	Specifically in our case, as far as the Andorran thermal power plant is concerned, as you know, the thermal power plant has already been closed, but the agreement has not yet been approved. There is a hope and an urgency in which the measures are announced and we ask you to try again, for example, that the existing thermal power plant will not be demolished, that the main tower will be maintained, which is the third highest concrete structure in Spain, and the three ventilation towers because we believe that they are an industrial architectural heritage of incalculable value and a vestige of the history of this territory that has always been a territory oriented to electricity. We also have amendments relating to the rehabilitation of housing in the rural world. We believe that an effort must be made to adjust the budget line for housing very specifically in these territories where the urban model cannot be followed and suitable residential typologies must be studied. For this there was already a competition in 1982 convened by the Ministry at that time of Promotion. The rural environment must therefore be treated specifically. Finally, another of our amendments, although more from the Ministry of Agriculture, emphasises the modernisation of the agricultural system which has been the livelihood of these territories. New technologies must be modernised and incorporated, and we believe that this should be achieved by enabling an important line of subsidies to enable this work to be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u9	President, thank you very much. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. We continue to debate the amendments of the various sections of the General State Budgets for 2021. To talk about ecological transition is to talk about one of the four axes that underpin the decisions to distribute the European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, as the Government said when it presented it. In Citizens we believe that sustainability must be the present in order to have a future. Any work done in this Congress by parliamentary groups and the Government on issues of ecological transition must be done in the next generations. Transitional decisions are of a very cross-cutting nature, affecting all aspects of our life as citizens, but also all sectors of our productive activity. That is why the path of ecological transition must be parallel to that of the sectors carrying out this activity. Why am I saying all this? Because right now the ecological transition decisions that are made in this ministry directly affect our country and we are concerned, directly affect our industry and we are concerned. Can a decarbonisation strategy be developed thinking of everyone, also of our industry? I believe so, and my group will continue to work on this matter to ensure that industry does not stay out of that transition at an appropriate pace. This ministry depends on all the decisions that will affect the competitiveness of our industry because it makes all the decisions in the field of energy, which is currently the highest cost that the industries of our country have and which can hinder the survival of the sector. That is why, Minister, I wanted to take advantage of the fact that you are in the Chamber today, in Congress, to tell you that at this time of economic crisis if you do not think about them too, it will be difficult for us to recover. My group has tabled numerous amendments to this section and I would ask for the support of your ladies and gentlemen so that they can move forward, many of them aimed at coastal action. There are many coasts of our country that need a remodeling, sand supplies, creation of spikes, as can be the coasts of Malaga, Granada, Alicante, Valencia and Barcelona. Other amendments seek to provide more funding for actions at different points in our country linked to the hydrographic confederations of Segura, Ebro, Guadalquivir and Guadiana, for example, to fight against invasive species existing in the Guadiana river as it passes through Badajoz. We should also highlight an amendment for the investment of EUR 2 million in the construction of a green hydrogen plant in the Murcia Region. There is already a series of investments and infrastructure that, if strengthened, would be very important not only for the area and job creation but also for carrying out this ecological transition through the promotion of renewable and sustainable energy. We have also registered an amendment to increase the aid programme for actions in the field of electrical technology innovation, batteries and storage by 100 million. Given the path and transition that diesel cars will make, we need to invest a lot more in support programs for these actions and that the sector can walk at a pace that will allow it to continue growing. In addition, we have tabled amendments to make hydraulic investments in coastal municipalities in the Mar Menor Sea, for example, to mitigate the damage caused by the DANAs, which cause a great deal of destruction, economic and employment losses. This ministry must cope with such improvements. To all these amendments - all of them - the Socialist and United Party We can, parties that support the government, have voted no. It must be because the territories that need these improvements do not deserve it - I hope that is not the motivation - or, rather, because the Socialist Party and the United States We can ignore the indications of Minister Montero when he says that in budgetary matters we must vote for what and not with whom. Once again they show in this section that it does matter who. In Citizens we will always vote thinking about what is best for the Spanish as a whole. We hope that now that they are still in time they will be able to vote and support the amendments to this section, as well as those tabled to the other sections that remain to be voted on because the ones we have proposed in Citizens are positive for all Spaniards. This government had two options to approve these budgets: a moderate path, that of centrality, wisdom, that of Citizens with Inés Arrimadas at the front, but it has chosen the separatist from Bildu with Esquerra. They chose the worst, no doubt, because it is the choice of parties that do not want the best for all Spaniards, and we are concerned. That is why we will vote against these budgets, but I would like to say again that they are still in time to support our amendments because they help the territories that need them. Or do they prefer not to do so and then approve them when the Government brings them in in future royal decrees or in other initiatives to put on the medal? It's in your hands. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I am speaking very briefly to defend the various amendments that the BNG has tabled to correct deficits and absences in these budgets in relation to Galicia in the area of ecological and environmental transition. Firstly, they are to ensure that the ecological transition is socially just, in particular, to address the negative consequences on employment and economic activity of the closure of the Meirama thermal power plant and of the practically announced already by Endesa in As Pontes. We propose to incorporate a development plan for Cerceda, in order to alleviate the effects of the closure of the Naturgy plant, and two amendments for As Pontes; one for the urbanization of 800 000 square metres, an ecopark, in order to provide for the capacity to house new businesses and economic activities that absorb lost employment and be able to create new jobs; and another to install a research centre on the development and optimization of energy storage, which is undoubtedly one of the basic challenges to ensure a decarbonisation process with effective and viable alternatives. On the other hand, we propose a departure to compensate the mariscadores and mariscadores of the ria of O Burgo for the loss of profit during the time - about two years - that last the work of the dredging of the ria because it seems to us of justice, and also various departures to proceed to the sanitation and regeneration of the ria of Foz, Ferrol, Betanzos, Corcubion, Muros and Noia, Pontevedra and Vigo, as well as of various rivers such as the Sarela, Masma, Barbaña, Miño or Sil. In addition, we propose essential departures to boost the new sewage treatment plant in Santiago de Compostela or Barreiros. Finally, they are all absolutely necessary and not included in the draft budgets. I was going to say that they are in time to correct it, but given that they have already voted, I think it is appropriate to regret the government's lack of sensitivity in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u12	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, Mrs Compromís has tabled amendments on two fronts: the first is the protection and recovery of the coast and the second is the desalination. The problem of coastal protection and recovery is recurrent, as you know, and particularly serious on the Mediterranean coast. Since we are here in Congress, Compromís has always tabled amendments because in our autonomous community the weight of tourism is important. Today, the latest labour force survey shows that the most tourist regions have been the most affected and, in addition, in the last DANA we have had we have once again verified the vulnerability of our coasts. That is why we are tabling amendments to this effect. The second front is the problem of desalinators such as those of Sagunt, Moncofa-Xilxes or Cabanes-Torreblanca It is an inheritance that left us those policies of wine and roses of the People's Party, with a demential urban planning with which thousands and thousands of houses were to be built that would end up bearing the cost of these desalinators. Finally, these thousands and thousands of homes were not built, and now these municipalities have to face a problem that they have created others and have to pay for. That is why we ask you to consider a reasonable solution to this problem from the ministry because it is clear that municipalities cannot deal with it. Finally, a corollary, we did not like the elimination of the diesel tax at all. We understand that balance is what it is, but we sincerely believe it is a step back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u15	Thank you, President. We have already expressed our position on the budgets in general in this plenary and in the Ecological Transitional Commission in particular. So today I'm going to stop at what's changed to continue subsidizing the diesel. Air pollution, ladies and gentlemen, kills 30,000 people a year prematurely in our country. Therefore, in our country there is a silent pandemic every year that, in addition, costs approximately EUR 3 billion to public health. One of the consequences of road traffic - after itself and not - that has been demonstrated with the pandemic is its direct effect on health and, in addition, diesel is the most polluting. That is why it is incomprehensible that this Government, which is called the ecological transition, should continue to subsidize something so terribly harmful to health and the general interest. And it is also incomprehensible that some parties - they are not here - act as the voice of our country's economic interests and oil lobbies. It is incomprehensible in the face of a situation that affects health very much. It will be with me, Minister, that if the acts prove more than the words and if it were because of these facts, More Country-Equo would vote against these budgets; we even believe that you would vote against them. However, we know that we are at an exceptional and emergency time that requires new budgets. We'll keep working. We have introduced as amendments: climate rent, conditions for public spaces...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u16	Mrs. Sabanes, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u17	...or a citizen's assembly.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u19	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, minister. As you know, we are going to support these budgets, and we are going to do so because, in our view, we have managed to improve the initial document with amendments that increase the contributions to our territory. Precisely referring to our territory, to the Catalan coast, in my case specifically to the coast of the province of Girona, this pandemic and these budgets arrive with the outstanding duties of the conversion and regeneration of all the damage caused by the temporary Gloria. That is why we have devoted our efforts and managed to incorporate some amendments that allow for the regeneration of much of the Costa Brava and the Catalan coast, also of the Costa Daurada, so that the situation improves as soon as possible not only from an economic and tourist point of view but also from an environmental point of view. I have already told you that we are going to monitor the implementation of these budgets, especially in these items which we consider to be absolutely important, as I said, not only from an environmental but also an economic point of view. That is why we welcome the incorporation of amendments such as the round roads of the Costa Brava or the improvement of mobility so that it is not a strictly part of your ministry; the improvement of public transport with the project of the AVE station in the airport of Girona-Costa Brava or improvements on the R-3 line that for us are absolutely essential. There are still outstanding issues that need to be resolved, if not within the framework of these budgets, outside the budgetary framework. For example, sea walks such as Lloret de Mar, which we consider key to connecting this dual purpose not only environmental but also economic and touristic. Where the ministry has responsibilities, it is important for us to fulfill them. That's why we're going to look outside the framework of this debate for ways to improve situations like the Paseig marítim de Lloret de Mar...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u20	Mr. Miquel, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u21	I'm done, President. ...who need a quick improvement. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u22	Thank you, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Mariscal Anaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u23	Thank you, Madam President. The General Budgets of the State are the formulation of the political action that the groups that support the Government are seeking and, once thoroughly analysed, we must say, Madam Vice-President, that you have a huge difficulty with reality. This is not a conference, nor is it a debate of those that you and I used to have long ago. You have here a greater responsibility, you are Minister and Vice President of the Government and you have demonstrated with these budgets an insurmountable, oceanic distance from the reality reflected in your words and in these General Budgets of the State. The figures are a reality and, indeed, what would these budgets be without the Recovery and Resilience Fund? Funds which have neither known projects nor, therefore, approval by the European Union. What would they be without that 23% you've injected into the budgets? We would meet with the budgets presented by the People's Party in 2018. But wasn't his vice-president the fundamental motive, the source of the policies that President Sánchez was going to develop in the fight against climate change and the energy transition? Let's take a look at the credibility of your words. The European Green Deal and the just transition were concepts that were already there when you were appointed minister of Spain. Just transition are two words that Miguel Arias Cañete used to try to reduce the coal-based economy and achieve the growth of our country and also of the whole European Union. Where is the realization of these ideas? Two years you've been pushing the climate change law forward, two years. There was already in this House a text of climate change law that was introduced by the People's Party in 2018, but as the People's Party put in the foreword of the document you rejected it. I wanted their own climate change law, because we have already been two years behind in that law, which clearly has an ideological direction and which disregards the ideas that this parliamentary group, the People's Parliamentary Group, might put forward. [[Applauds]] A bill that does not reflect the transversality of a challenge that goes beyond a generation and this legislature. Consensus and zero agreement, we have seen only arrogance on your part and, moreover, a great deal of lack of leadership and coordination, as demonstrated by the fact that the plan presented by your Government to the European Union related to the resilience fund has left it to you. That document, which was submitted on 15 October, did not count on its presence or momentum. We only see in the budget transfers to IDAE, to the National Commission on Markets and Competition, to the municipalities, to the autonomous communities, but what policies will you lead from the ministry? What are you going to coordinate? For example, the Delegate Commission for the Demographic Challenge has the Secretary-General for the Demographic Challenge outside. What is that general secretariat for, Madam Vice-President? The bad thing is when you tell the truth, when you verbalize what you think, as happened with the diesel and its direct attack at 10% of the gross domestic product when your fixations and obsessions are verbalized Look, if there is a novelty in this budget with you, it is that a budget has been invented without concrete action, a novelty in economic matters. My colleagues have been questioning the team of their ministry for the past few weeks and, thanks to the work of these colleagues, we have tabled numerous amendments. All of them vetoed because they debate, oppose or hear proposals that are not themselves uninterested and vetoed, it is not going to be that the proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group put it in the mirror of their lack of ambition, their indecretion and their inability. It is a project that, of course, does not help in any way either economic growth or the improvement of the quality of life of people. I'll give you some examples. In the area of energy, the People's Parliamentary Group has presented an initiative to reduce the electricity bill for all Spaniards, for families, and also to improve the competitiveness of businesses. An idea that intended to remove the cost on the electric bill from the tariff deficit that you pushed from 2005 to 2013; 27 billion euros that cost the bill of all Spaniards. Well, if this amendment had been approved, the average bill for a Spanish family would have been reduced by 80 euros a year, but you have voted no to this initiative. [[Applauds]] Notice, in the area of the State Energy Secretariat there is a budget of 53 billion. We asked the Secretary of State what she was going to do with those $5.3 billion and she responded with a press release. Madam Vice-President, 5300 million and they answer us with a press release. Incoherences all the time. We agreed on a national hydrogen plan, but it turns out that your secretary of state said it would be 11 billion, then it was said 6 billion, and in the budgets 100 million appear, can you explain to us what this inconsistency is for? Note that in the area of sustainable urban mobility, the Ministry for the Energy Transition raises €1.1 billion and the Ministry of Industry 6 billion. Who do we believe? Have you not realized that we are facing a budget that is not credible? And I am not going to say anything about the industry, its true obsession, insecure of discouragement, which shows a profound lack of knowledge about the productive fabric of our country. Look, without basic industry, without steel, without cement, without aluminium, without copper, it is impossible to carry out the necessary energy transition, and you only push for measures that cause the closure of these companies in our country. [[Applauds]] You have an immense obsession with Spanish industry and that is reflected not only in these budgets but also in the policies that you promote. And I no longer say anything to you, for example, with regard to the environment, where we have proposed a water resilience fund that you have despised, and which would enable you to combat floods with new infrastructures or, for example, improve water supply or irrigation. To finish, I'm going to focus on the demographic challenge. You propose that it is a big problem and for that big problem offers 19 million euros, of which two million are to pay to the staff that includes the secretary general who has embedded Ferraz in the vice presidency. Well, EUR 17 million compared to EUR 68 billion from the Resilience Fund, is this the importance you attach to the demographic challenge? Is the demographic challenge so important that you allocate 17 million? Then he has told us that no, that there are 25 billion distributed throughout the state budget, and I ask him: then, why do we have the Secretary General for the Demographic Challenge?, you what coordinates?, why is she vice president? Look, I think you here today...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Mariscal, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u25	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u26	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor in position-setting by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u27	Thank you, President. Welcome, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mariscal, in 2008 the United Kingdom was the first country in the European Union to pass a climate change law; the United Kingdom was still in the European Union. At the time, in Spain we were discussing Rajoy's words about his cousin. In 2012, from this very place where I find myself today, its spokesman, the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Hernando, compared climate change with the Mayan prophecy. This happened in 2012, when other European countries were very advanced in the fight against climate change. Therefore, that diatribe that you have unleashed against the climate change law should make you look at it because I really think we are very late precisely because of your lack of conviction, because of the lack of conviction of the previous governments on climate change. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are immersed in a climate crisis, and if we have learned from the pandemic that we are suffering, it is worth listening to the scientific community, and the scientific community is warning us as active and passive, both high and low for many years, of the gravity of the climate crisis that is coming upon us. We should therefore listen to them and take urgent action. And I think that the budgets that we are adopting today are precisely in that direction, they are a first step in that direction, as the Vice-President has said. I would like to begin by paying tribute to the people and organizations that have been fighting for so long from the streets in defense of the environment and against climate change, and in particular to those millions of young people who are mobilizing around the world to urge us to take action in this vital struggle. [[Rumors]] It is urgent to deal with this crisis and, of course, it is a global task. We therefore welcome Donald Trump's upcoming departure from the White House, which will give a new and, we hope, definitive impetus to the Paris Agreement. But each country must fulfill its task and these budgets...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u29	...and these budgets lead Spain to fulfill its own. After years of successive cuts in Rajoy's governments from funds to combat climate change and to protect the environment, finally the ecological transition budget rises and does so by no less than 132%, with substantial increases in energy, the environment and the demographic challenge. These budgets will be good for the environment, but they will also serve to reform our economic model, to reduce our economic and energy dependence on the outside - which is no less than 74% - to innovate our industrial fabric, which is so badly needed by this renewal, and to generate employment. Let us remember that the largest employment sites are precisely in the areas covered by this ecological transition budget. The budgets we are adopting are a first effort in the right direction, certainly much remains to be done, but it is also true that there is a great deal of delay. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that this budgetary effort is accompanied by the updating of our legislation on such matters as climate change, mobility or waste policy, and this government is involved in this. Budgets are a big step forward, but it is true that there are some outstanding subjects. It cannot be otherwise, because, as I say and insist on it, we come too late. One of those subjects - which has already emerged in this debate - is green taxation. We are still the fifth largest green tax country in the European Union, only 5.3% of tax revenue is green tax, so we still have a way to go to make the polluter pay reality. Taxes on hydrocarbons are particularly low, whose taxation is far from that of the European Union as a whole. The equalization of the price of gasoline and diesel may be a way for that green taxation, but it is not the only one. Therefore, we are not going to give up and we will continue to work for a fiscal policy that does not go out so cheap to the big oil companies. In this regard, it is not only the Government and the parties of the Government that affect, but the little suspect of Bolshevik and Communist or Social-Communist Price Waterhouse Coopers. It says so in its own documents, where it indicates that it is necessary to review the current taxation of different energies on an environmental basis; with the current taxation the less polluting uses, despite being more energy efficient, are not economically competitive. The path to ecological transition does not end with these budgets, but begins here. The more and better we take advantage of the sun and the wind, the better it will be for Spain in all its aspects: economic, social and also environmental. More sun, more wind and less oil. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u30	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, as you have explained, these budgets will be allocated to the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge EUR 12 307 million for the year 2021, of which almost half corresponds to the European Union's Recovery and Resilience Fund. But the truth is that, seeing the government's disastrous management of this pandemic, it is hard to believe that you will be able to absorb and manage all that money properly. [[Applauds]] This means, as you have also said, a 132% budget increase, but which, by deducting European aid, remains in a real government effort of 4%, an increase in items which you also justify with the argument of protecting the environment, combating pollution and facilitating a fair energy transition. Under this premise, ladies and gentlemen, the easy thing for you would be for us to define ourselves as terraplanists, reptilians or, as you so much like to call us, climate change negators, among other myths - absurd, by the way - that you sell in your argumentary as the only way of criticizing VOX's position on these budgets. These are budgets with a very expansive spending policy, with a high increase in the items - yes, it is true - but they do so as they did with Rodriguez Zapatero and his PlanE, based on lies, based on ideology and on sectarianism that will unfortunately lead us back to the disaster, because these budgets have disorbited revenues that even institutions such as the AIReF or the Banco de España question. They are counter-current budgets in Europe, which punish work, which penalise investment, savings and business profits, the only levers that really enable economic activity in our country to be boosted. All this without counting its senseless rise in taxes, although, as I have already said, most of the increase in spending comes from Europe. So, what excuse do you guys raise taxes with? With the raising of their own salaries, I understand, as they did last month. In short, in addition to presupposing what does not belong to you, you invent a parallel reality and believe it. You have fallen into the historical error of all socialcommunism, believing your own propaganda. And the fact of matifying and affirming that the objectives of this government serve more ideological policies than really real solutions for the Spaniards call you to be a negationist. To say that you wanted to tax the diesel even more until the PNV demanded to maintain the tax bonus because it was harmful to the Basque industry, does this seem to you to be a negationist? To say that you are devoting a ridiculous 19 million euros to the demographic challenge, whose zero funding destroys thousands of people throughout Spain, do you also seem to be a negationist? To say that the management of European funds for renewable energy must not ignore the industrial, agrarian and rural reality of our country, does it seem to them to be negationist? To highlight the risks of massive penetration of renewables that provide for these budgets with EUR 19 billion, without guarantees of secure, stable and powerful energy supply, do you think it is negativist? Asphyxiating nuclear power plants to taxes, compromising their viability, allowing this Government to let die, literally, to cogeneration, repeatedly failing to fulfil its promises regarding the updating of retributive parameters and the implementation of a renewed plan, which never arrives, will cause the death of almost fifty installations this year and that is not precisely negationist, is to be realistic. You repeat this a lot of not leaving anyone behind and, the truth, minister, is that I have to give you the reason, you're going to tear it all apart. Ladies and gentlemen, it is vital to support renewable energy, but to understand the challenges that it entails, from a coherent and realistic perspective, and not to deny the existence of other strategically irrefutable sources of energy, such as nuclear or cogeneration. However, all this European aid is not even proposed to boost industry or to produce a multiplier effect on the Spanish economy, one of the many issues you do not want to talk about, of course. But let's talk about them here today. We're talking about SMEs. Instead of boosting our productive fabric with small and medium-sized enterprises, we see how programmes 420.B and 420.C do not even bother to set up structured projects to support small and medium-sized enterprises that facilitate their access to these European aid. We're talking about water management. The water infrastructure management policy in these budgets is literally demented, not even including sufficient investments for situations of extreme environmental urgency, such as the situation of the Sea Minor, or for the interconnection of all basins and transfers, with which we could take the water where it is needed and to all those who need it. [[applause]] If we take advantage of these budgets to build a national plan to guarantee water in all the basins, we could, firstly, generate two and a half million hectares of new irrigation that would act as a huge sink of CO2; secondly, we could create up to three jobs per hectare, as already happened in the Tajo-Segura transfer, and thirdly, use both advantages to set populations in regions that are highly exposed to rural depopulation. That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen, you use European funds to generate unemployment and misery and we want to use them to improve industry, employment, depopulation and the environment. [[Applauds]] Are we also talking about demographic challenge? You said that for this government it is a priority. Yes, so high a priority that they spend 24 times more money on the Ministry of Equality than on the demographic challenge throughout Spain: 451 million against the ridiculous 19 million dedicated to facilitating development in rural areas. But if you deliver more money to Morocco in your blackmail with illegal immigration than in helping rural Spain! Not with all the help of Europe can they dampen economic deterioration or facilitate recovery, because it is not about how much but how to manage it. In VOX we want a Spain respectful of the environment, but not wasting the money in high offices and in games without realising chiringuitos and associations whose only objective is to justify their own salaries. Today we are fighting against these budgets because we are not going to be complicit in the use of the money of all Spaniards to bring them to unemployment and misery. That is why we are fighting, to achieve a country so respectful of the environment as to get rid of the most toxic and polluting element that we have in Spain, which is the socialcommunism that you represent. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bueno Campanario has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to address you for the first time from this atrium, and I do so with humility and respect, with the respect I have for this place from where Pablo Iglesias Posse gave voice to the working class; and I thank the women, so many women, that chain of women, friends, companions, sisters, mothers and grandmothers that I personally, who was a very young mother, allow me to be here today defending proudly as a socialist, budgets that will allow us to move firmly and definitively towards real equality, social cohesion and a model of society reconciled with the planet; budgets with the greatest public investment in the history of this country; budgets, as you have already said in this rostrum, exceptional for an exceptional moment. [[applause]] I was going to keep commenting on some of the budget issues, but I cannot help answering some of the things that you ladies and gentlemen have said here. Mrs Martínez, you started very well, but you appeal to the moderation of your group when they are supported by the ultra-right. What moderation, what moderation do those who support themselves in their governments speak of with the ultra-right? Look at this, Mrs Martínez, and do not say that the amendments that are not approved by your group are due to a partisan issue. But if they come here and speak only of the territories in which they rule! Are there no more territories in Spain? You have to be the ones to raise this issue. Mr. Marshal, with a tariff deficit you could talk to Mr. Aznar, maybe he'll explain it to you better. Are you saying that the budgets are supported by the fund? They don't like the recovery fund, do they? Perhaps they would prefer not to have the fund and not to be able to recover families, businesses and self-employed people? Is that what you would prefer? What did you do, rescue the banks? [[Applauds]] You've alluded to Mr. Cañete. In his appearance here, he had a really good speech and I asked him how the ecological transition he had developed had occurred and he told me that he had read; for I tell you to read, Mr.Mariscal, that you read and observe, moreover, the budgetary execution of the ministries both of Mr. Arias Cañete and of Mrs.Tejerina, those were also those who were furthest from reality. Mrs Borrás, on transfers, please read European legislation; please work. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is enough scientific evidence to ensure that the causes of the current crisis are closely linked to how we relate to the planet, so we must change our model and move towards a more sustainable economic model that can combat the effects of global change, where the fight against climate change is the driving force that will certainly drive our country's recovery. To this end, 37% of the European funds, as you know, which are earmarked for recovery, will be for investments in green policies and 27 billion, as you know, will be incorporated into the 2021 budget. Budgets are necessary to channel this investment, and you know it, ladies and gentlemen. We need this law to promote a more ecological Spain as a basis for fair recovery, because without environmental justice there will be no social justice. They are budgets to act already, as the young people of this country and the world told us well, in a climate emergency context, because the cost of not doing so will be much higher. And the right? Where's the right? It seems that in the end all of you and all of you were stopped by the alarm clock. Socialists are committed to citizenship and that is why we defend these budgets. The ministry increases its budget by 132%, more than EUR 12 billion and, as the vice-president has explained very clearly, will enable us to implement green policies that will help us meet the decarbonisation targets by 2050, the commitments to the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreements. If they decide that they are not going to support these budgets, they will be saying that they are not going to boost renewable energies; perhaps the People's Party prefers to put a sun tax back on. They will also be rejecting EUR 25 billion for the environment or EUR 25 billion for the depopulation challenge as a clear bet on these budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, these are budgets imbued with municipalism, co-governance and inter-territorial solidarity, such as just transition agreements. These budgets send a very important message, especially to the young people of this country, to those who raised their voice to protect the planet, to those who, while you were involved in patriotic flags, had to pack their bags to address other countries because the right wing of this country did not allow them to carry out their vital project here.We say to those young people who left and those who left and those who stayed and those who stayed, that the historical increase in budgets will allow them to move towards a new model of development of a prosperous country, respectful of the limits of the planet. [[Applauds]] We say to them and to them: We have heard you. This is your budget too. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Well. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We move on to the debate in section 25, Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. For the section presentation, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u35	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is not the first time I have come up to this rostrum to defend the budgetary programming of an area of government, I have been able to do so with great honor with another socialist government in the area of culture and, therefore, I know what this parliamentary moment means in order to carry out new public accounts for our country. But believe me that at this moment I am doing so with an added responsibility because the world is going through very difficult and very complex circumstances for the governance of any State, of any country, also for ours. Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibilities I have in the First Vice-President of the Government and as Minister of the Presidency and Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory do not correspond budgetaryly to any area of investment ministry. Therefore, the budget for which I have the responsibility is a smaller budget if we compare it, of course, with the areas of management of this Government as with any other. Before going on to look at the expenditure covered by this budget, in the general description of Section 25, I must tell you something which your ladies and gentlemen know as we have already been a few months since the beginning of this parliamentary term and the course of this government. All the appropriations relating to equality policies come out of the budget because at the moment they constitute a separate ministry and the appropriations relating to the policy of the former Socialist Government in relation to democratic memory and also all the questions relating to the policy of religious freedom and religious diversity of our country which were located in the previous competences of the Ministry of Justice, as your ladies and gentlemen are well aware, from the moment of the new structure of this Government. I am therefore aware of the policies of the Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory and also of the area of support that we provide from this space to the Presidency of the Government, the Secretariat of State for Communication and the public bodies that are under the Ministry of the Presidency. The total amount of the budget we are offering to this House to support is EUR 420.7 million, of which EUR 261.6 million corresponds to the department, EUR 128.3 million to public bodies, the CIS, the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies, the Board of Directors of the National Heritage and EUR 30.7 million to the Agency of the State Official Gazette. This is a budget, as I said, contained if we compare it with the management policies that are greatly increased to the obligations that the Government diagnoses and wants to incur to solve the innumerable problems that the pandemic accumulates to the society we serve. I will go on to detail the line of strategy and content of the resources that I intend to have in the substantive policies, and I will start by pointing out democratic memory. This budget is nothing less than the reflection of a policy of continuity of the former socialist government and also of the socialist government that brought to this House in 2007 for the first time a reflection of our country's political conscience in relation to historical memory. We therefore follow the line of coherence indicated by the international agencies, the expert report that was brought to this House in 2014 and the successive votes of this House by entrusting the Government of office with its obligations in this area, as a democracy that we are in the world, in relation to humanitarian law and the only objective that this Government sets out: reparation for all victims, truth, justice and forgiveness. In this respect, we have increased the final budget available to us in the Ministry of Justice by 83 per cent, by 100 per cent if we remember the budgets of the governments of the People's Party, which did not devote a single effort and no respect to an existing law that remained undeveloped and unfulfilled. For this reason, an important part of the Government's political decision has been the creation of a Secretariat of State for Democratic Memory, which is under the umbrella of my responsibility. In this departure, important for a real state policy, in which we are very late in comparison with any other democracy with which we want to be homologated, we will dedicate a very important part of our effort, 11.3 million euros, mainly to cooperate with autonomous communities, municipalities and non-profit civil associations, which dedicate all their efforts with the autonomous laws that have developed the historical memory in our country, fundamentally, ladies and gentlemen, to finding the still thousands and thousands of missing that our country has, with the consequent immense pain that causes their families not being able to recover and give with dignity the peace that they deserve. That is why our greatest economic effort in the Secretariat of State for Democratic Memory will be incardinated in having a DNA bank for the safe identification of our missing compatriots, always with respect for the anonymity of their data and the desire of their own families, and a four-year plan for the pits of missing persons in our country, which so disgracefully continue to exist for thousands, to disappear once and for all from the democracy that we are. [[Applauds]] He said that to this effort we devote almost 60% of the resources that we are going to have, deriving 3 million to cooperate with the autonomous governments, which also make their corresponding efforts in their autonomous regulations, with the FEMP, with associations and with the memorial movement, to which we must continually pay tribute of gratitude because from silence and suffering for many decades it has kept alive the light of dignity for all the victims of a past that cannot be repeated again. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we will also be doing the same with regard to the dissemination of democratic memory. President Azaña - this year we commemorated the 80th anniversary of his death and the 140th anniversary of his birth - said that our country had a great humanitarian and liberal tradition, on which we had never made the effort of recognition and dissemination, which leads us directly to the efforts of the Spanish people to be the protagonist of their rights and freedoms nothing more and nothing less than from the origins of Spanish constitutionalism, of our Constitution of Cadiz. By paying tribute to Azaña's desire and expression, we will recover the democratic memory of much longer content than the absolutely tragic episode that constituted the military uprising against democratic Spain, the dictatorship, exile and, of course, the consequences of such a tragedy. We will also devote part of our economic efforts, but particularly of the political objectives, to the competences on religious freedom and religious diversity in our country. We do not grow in any structure, which is very modest: a general sub-directory which was located in the Ministry of Justice, which is now under the umbrella of the Ministry of the Presidency and which is aimed at continuing to work in order of equality and respect for the fundamental right to religious freedom, the diversity of the religious beliefs of each and every Spaniard and the essential right, which is also protected, not to have any religious belief. This Ministry of the Presidency is responsible for the Pluralismo y Convivencia Foundation and the Observatory of Religious Pluralism in Spain. This foundation has for many years managed an important part of the preservation of this fundamental right. It is dedicated to the normalization of our diversity, to supporting local administrations in the management of their competences, which sometimes have to do with elements particularly delicate and sensitive to each and every one of us in our consciences: cemeteries, places of worship, public way and other issues that affect, I repeat, a fundamental right as important as the freedom of our beliefs in the field and in the religious fact. It will have small growth ranging from 1.75 million to 1.9 million for the action plan to be promoted in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, I have addressed myself in a respectful manner to all the religious denominations organized and which maintain relations with the Spanish State, from the Catholic religion, with its Episcopal Conference and with the nuncio of the Holy See in our country, from State to State, to all others equally, regardless of the free numerical practice of each of the Spanish and Spanish, but equally in terms of dignity and respect. [[Applauds]] In the spending programme of the Presidency of the Government, as your ladies and gentlemen are well aware, because nothing is new here, we give direct support to the area of the Presidency of the Government, to the work of the President of the Government, particularly in the reactivation of the national agenda, but above all of the President's international agenda. We did so in the previous parliamentary term, we do so in this and we want to continue to do so, because the globalised international policy in which our country is located from the European Union, every day more complex, every day more important to our country's interests, requires an effort from which the President has reaped important very recent fruits. For this reason, we also provide the necessary assistance as the Ministry of the Presidency to the Department of Planning and Monitoring of Government Activities and to the National Office for Prospectiveness and Strategy. Of course, on this support structure from the Ministry of the Presidency, we also work on the public policies particularly chosen by the President, which have to do primarily with the High Commissioner for Spain, the Entrepreneur Nation, which has so many synergies with the digitalisation gap of our society, where all its members know that we are playing an important part of the future and that our country does not lose a single development train within and outside the European Union, and also with the High Commissioner for the fight against child poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be up to me specifically to talk about this dangerous matter in which there is an important part of an unacceptable and unsustainable situation, which has been aggravated by the situation we are experiencing and which must be addressed by all the ministerial departments of this Government which have specific powers, whether directly or even in conjunction with the High Commissioner's impetus. With regard to the part of my ministry's responsibility in relations with the Courts, the Secretariat of the Government and support for the High Authority and the Secretariat of the Government, which, as is traditional in Spanish policy, occupies the portfolio of the Presidency of the Government, the main issue we want to promote is to continue implementing what we call the normative footprint, that is, every day to improve the more uniform management and with greater citizen participation in the processing of the rules. To improve our democracy is to deepen it, without any doubt. This can be done in many different lines of progress and innovation, but one of them, and very important, is the most active, direct and constant participation of citizens at a time when the rule of law is about to give them a rule which, as you know and as it pertains to the legal certainty and the rule of law we are, will be binding on everyone, including the lack of knowledge of it. In support of the Head of State, it is also up to the ministry for which I am responsible to pay payrolls and compensations for personal service to the House of His Majesty the King, with a budget of 7.1 million, which compares exactly with the amount of the previous budget. As I said at the beginning, I shall go on to detail some important elements of the subordinate or subordinate bodies of the Ministry of the Presidency. The budget of the Centre for Sociological Research amounts to up to EUR 9.1 million. We can highlight the necessary adaptations that the CIS has to make, especially to carry out surveys by telephone and online and for all the planning not only of the sampling, but of the annual studies planned; it is an effort of expansion and a work of adaptation to the new formats that allow us the best work of the CIS. With regard to the budget of the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies, we note the consolidation of two salary increases, which correspond to the year 2020 and 2021, which had not been incorporated into the Centre's budget, and a reinforcement that I would like to highlight to you, ladies and gentlemen, in this intervention. This is an important reinforcement to the investigative staff of the program called García Pelayo, in honor of the first president of our High Court, of the Constitutional Court, which guarantees our constitutional order and the interpretation of our Magna Charter. This space called García Pelayo works directly with the Venice Commission, as you know, the European Commission for Democracy and Law. We find this progress particularly remarkable and significant in the direction of the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies. Finally, as far as the Official State Gazette is concerned, the planned budget amounts to EUR 30.7 million, a figure, ladies and gentlemen, which must logically coincide with that of its revenue. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that this public agency is working on a crucial part of the legal security of our country, the Official State Gazette, probably one of the best official newsletters in the world and an example for some other countries with which we collaborate for the extraordinary quality of service and its professionals. I want to highlight it to pay tribute to them too. With regard to the Board of Directors of National Heritage, its budget has been doubled this year in two programmes, as indicated by the Court of Auditors since 2013. It will be the first time that we make practical expression of the Court of Auditors' statement to distinguish, on the one hand, the programming of the administration of the historical-national heritage, in which I want to highlight the investments in the museum equipment of the Museum of the Royal Collections, as well as all the work of preventive maintenance, but also of conservation of the Royal Sites, the Historical Gardens and the Natural Spaces that depend on National Heritage, and on the other hand and in a distinguished way, the program of administration of the Royal Patronates, which is the payment of wages and social insurance of the personnel who provide their services in these Royal Patronates, the costs of surveillance or the assistance that are provided from here to the religious communities. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. These are essential budgets to deal with the situation we have, but the Government wants these budgets to be also the search for a new model; a stronger and more sustainable new model of our own economic structure; an essential aid model, because it strengthens society and coexistence; a model of better employment and greater employment and, therefore, a better guarantee of social cohesion, of stability of coexistence and, ultimately, of the development of our constitutional order as one of the great democracies of the world. I ask your ladies and gentlemen to support this section 25 in the new public accounts to deal with this House. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mrs Montesinos de Miguel has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calvo, despite the pompous but empty intervention, disengage yourself, you have nothing to do with the role of your predecessors in the First Vice-President, the considered political vice-president of the Government responsible for coordinating a government's agenda, coordinating relations with the General Courts, designing legislative programmes and relating to constitutional bodies; none of that is you. I understand it's hard for you to assimilate him, Mrs. Calvo. So many decades dedicated to politics to end up in the service of a narcissistic president, to the dictate of the almighty Ivan Redondo and acting as a speaker of a radical vice president with infiltrators. What a piece of paper yours! [[Applauds]] And what better evidence of his irrelevance in this government than the budgets he has had to defend today. His ministry is a mere appendix to the budgets of the Cabinet of the President of the Government; it is little more than a staff budget serving the triumvirate, three men - with grapes -: Sánchez, Iglesias and Redondo. You are no longer included as a Government spokesman in that decision-making group, only obeys and executes. You endorse these accounts, as the corrupt socialist governments did; then you blessed the ERE without any objection and now you bless the independenceists, those who fracture Spain, and Bildu. Budget prisoners, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]] His almost only obligation in these accounts is to pay the payrolls of the cohort of 452 advisors, advisers and trusted staff of Sánchez, a relationship of unprecedented assistants in democracy, up to the ego of the president. No less than 16.5 million to pay high posts and reliable staff, more than twice as much as in the last budget of the People's Party; an insult to the unemployed, to the self-employed, to the merchants, to the families, to young people without jobs and without a future who see with amazement how they use their taxes to pay adherents to the sanchist regime. It is the accounting reflection of what this policy of electoral image, of political clientelism, of waste, in short, of ineptitude, Mrs Calvo, is going to mean for the Spaniards. As I said, what this ministry does not do is coordinate the action of the government - that is what Redondo is doing - or coordinate relations with the Courts, to which you do not relate, impose, Mrs Calvo. Yeah, bend your head. Imposing, undermining the rights of Members of the opposition, vetoing the opposition's initiatives, refusing to be held accountable and subjecting themselves to the control of the House with a thousand excuses and removing Parliament's intervention in exceptional states, you know that well. [[Applauds]] The President has already said this in September 2018: I am the President of the Government and I will do what I want in the House. But from this group we are not going to let him pervert our parliamentary system to the greater glory of his fatuous leader. Mrs Calvo, you have told us about the creation of the new democratic memory program, and for this you have created a secretary of state, putting in front of a socialist militant sectarian and subsidized by the government of Zapatero, with a general leadership and the corresponding quota of trusted staff and officials, to do what until 2018, as you very well said, was being done from an administrative unit of the Ministry of Justice. And do not say that you are following the guidelines of the European Community because that is not the case, because when the European Community adopts a resolution - in this case it voted in the European Parliament; it was the resolution that condemned the crimes of dictatorships, both fascist and communist - you and your party vote against. [[Applauds]] Where is the cry for freedom, Madam Vice President? Radical left ideology financed by the rise of taxes to the Spaniards, disregarding the spirit of agreement and reconciliation of the Transition and the Spanish Constitution to divide the Spaniards instead of allocating these funds to alleviate the huge deficiencies generated by their disastrous management of the health and economic crisis. And no wonder, he already said in his minister's day, that the money was nobody's. Now for you, in your evolution to Vice President, the public money is from Sánchez, by Sánchez and for Sánchez. Mrs. Calvo, you are in the past eighty-four years and you forget the most recent: the 379 murders of ETA unsolved. [[Applauds]] Dignity and justice. In the end, I said, prisoners for budgets. Unfortunately, you are in revisionism and in trying to break the main success of the Spanish Transition, the great agreement of national reconciliation: the Spanish Constitution. All the games that have to do with the president go up excessively, as the opacity and lack of transparency in his ministry rises, and, of course, information coverage could not be less, almost 78 million euros for the endless campaigns of images, the Sunday 'Aló President', the press conferences with questions and pre-selected journalists, campaigns in the 'Stronger Outings' style and other imaging activities to Mr Sánchez's greatest glory. It is an insult to the Spaniards, who suffer such a waste with the taxes they pay, as well as the increase of the CIS by 13,2, so that Tezanos can continue to embezzle the neutrality of it, punctuating its international prestige. Sánchez has converted CIS and Radiotelevision, together with the ministry of truth, into paid government tools and at the service of its government partners. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not the CIS, it is Tezanos. Unfortunately, in the practice of Tezanos there is no science, there is manipulation and sectarianism paid with the taxes of all Spaniards. Mrs Calvo, it is true that not everything is economic cost. The shameful ministry of truth, appealed to the National Audience by the People's Party, causes a cost in terms of democratic quality and very alarming delimitation of rights and freedoms. But no matter how much they manipulate, gag and adopt, there is no survey that eliminates the more than 70,000 people killed by COVID in Spain, or the more than 3,800,000 unemployed, or the thousands of workers who expect to receive ERTE. These are the figures of shame, not the percentages that Mr Tezanos arbitrarily gives them. Mrs Calvo, recently, Mr Sánchez, in one of his propagandistic perorates, repeated to the adherents the phrase 'put your face on the figures', referring to these budgets. Well, put on the face of Otegi and his minions, Rufian and the seditious independence prisoners, because they are the true face of these budgets. The cross is all Spanish. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u39	Thank you, President. Minister, taking advantage of the fact that she is present today, we want to address you, because the last time we tried she refused us. We presented an inquiry and the Government directed it to another minister. It was an inquiry into an issue that, precisely, has to do with the Government's relationship with the Courts. We said it at that time and, as an introduction, I will say it at this time also because you are ahead. In all matters relating to the control of the Royal House, this Government makes a wall, a blockade when the Courts want to make inquiries, questions or ask for appearances. By the means we have learned that you were the coordinator of King Juan Carlos' flight operation, and when we asked, when we have questioned or tried to get you to appear we have always been blocked. That the minister responsible for relations with the Courts should contribute to the blockade that exists when the members of these Courts ask for the Royal House does not seem to us to be an exercise at all correct. In any case, what we are talking about today is the budgets, and I will devote the intervention to this. In the process of debating and voting on the thousands of amendments last week we have seen confirmed the reasons why our group tabled an amendment in its entirety. First, they are expansive budgets, but the whole increase is based on European funds, which multiply, I think by five what the Spanish State usually receives from the European Union. This has allowed them to gather the support that we will see at the end of this vote without the need to change taxation and not even rethink cutting into ministries that do not need to increase their endowment at all, as is the case with military spending. What is the problem of resting all the investment in European funds? First, that the ability to access funds through complex bureaucratic procedures will make large companies and, in particular, IBEX, profit from their increased technical capacity or the fact that they can hire consultants to process their applications. Secondly, they are aid conditional on the reforms that are often required of the countries of southern Europe. That is why the report of the Toledo Pact of 15 days ago already raised the issue of raising the retirement age, and that is why you too have definitely forgotten the commitments to repeal labour reform. The funds will therefore not be a distribution of wealth, but a consolidation of the business and class structure that already exists in the Spanish State. That connects with the second structural question of these budgets: virtually no substantial change in taxation. Yesterday afternoon this was discussed and it was again noted. Neither the richest 1% will be affected by the new measures on the IRPF or the property tax, nor the bank, which is not even required to return the ransom. The compromise - we are aware - is to create a commission to study this taxation, but the time to reform the taxation was now, with the extreme needs posed by the pandemic. As approved in the Parliament of Catalonia and moved here to Congress, it was now time to design and approve a COVID rate on wealth, so that it could be socially invested in order to solve the major problems posed by the crisis in the field of housing or in the field of the destruction of businesses, with consequent unemployment. Finally, thirdly, there is the fundamental political framework, which is the confidence that a government wants to win with the parliamentary partners. With regard to the Catalan partners, we note that the commitments of a new phase of dialogue and judicialisation that were made at the beginning of the parliamentary term to seek support are not at all appreciable and that those now on the table can even be a double-edged weapon. Pardons can also serve to divide between prisoners and exiles and the reform of the sedition crime can be a sophistication of the same, and, as announced yesterday by the minister, can be accompanied by a hardening of other crimes such as that of disobedience to the Constitutional Court. The budgets will be approved and the Government will receive a push that will allow it to reach beyond even a year, if necessary, by extending them, comfortably exceeding the meridian of the legislature. Our predictions may sound cumbersome, but I think they're pretty reasonable. With this push forward, with what strength can the legislature continue to be conditioned? What incentives does the PSOE have to accept what it has not accepted so far, for the regulation of rents, for example, for the repeal of labour reform, for a truly progressive and transformative taxation or to change its repressive policy in Catalonia? We, beyond this concrete moment, will continue to prioritize the objectives of amnesty, self-determination and the sharing of work and wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Madam Vice President. I want to tell you that the Socialist Party, the coalition government came to this legislature saying - first of all - that it was going to improve the lives of the Spanish and what it did was a huge megalomaniac government, with twenty-two ministries, with four vice-presidents, 36% larger than the last that Spain had, the second largest and most expensive government in all democracy. But then, not just by increasing that current administrative operating expenditure, they come to these budgets with the nerve of wanting to raise the salary of senior government officials. A number of parliamentary groups have tabled amendments in this regard, because, with which it is falling, coming to these budgets saying that the salary of senior government officials should be raised is a disgrace, it is a shame. Pedro Sánchez would raise his salary for the third time since he was president; it must be, as the announcement says, 'because I'm worth it', because he deserves it, when the Spaniards are having such a bad time. Its ministry, the Ministry of the Presidency, is precisely a ministry where that absolutely crazy expenditure on advisers, whose only merit, whose only capacity is to be one of our own, is precisely more visible. Then, of course, the Government, with that power to veto amendments that may result in a decrease in income or an increase in expenditure, says that there is no money. So look, take off advisors, save on the current expenses of the Administration, take off ministries, be more austere in the functioning of the Administration, because people need that money, and, above all, accept the amendments of the opposition and do not behave with that pride that leads them to think that only what comes from the Government or from the groups that support it is a good thing for the Spaniards. Secondly, the Socialist and United Party We can, the coalition government, have promised to increase democratic quality. With regard to the democratic quality, what he did was to try to reform the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary so that the Government would directly elect the twenty, with total descargo. As far as the budget is concerned, if we look at precisely that part of the propaganda apparatus of the President of the Government, this is already nonsense because it is greatly increased that departure to the greatest glory of the President of the Government with those long conferences that he gave us on Saturdays of the first wave during the state of alarm in press conferences, without questions. Do you know how you could save that money easily? Look at what is so strange about it: coming here to appear to give explanations to the Congress of Deputies and not through the plasma that was so critical of Mr Rajoy; coming here to give explanations and answering questions, and not creating ministries of truth, not wanting to control information only from the official point of view, not increasing the money devoted to the propaganda apparatus of the President of the Government. We told him before he went on vacation that we were going to work on national salvation budgets and went to La Mareta, to his palace, while people were having a bad time. This year we don't have International Festival in Benicasim, at least he used the plane to go listen to music. Of course, with this example, Mr Ábalos also wants to spend a little holiday weekend in Tenerife in a five-star hotel, or Mr Iglesias, without having competence in international relations, goes to Bolivia to make propaganda, also at the expense of all Spaniards. Look, in his mouth the word regeneration means nothing, it's a hollow word. In the mouth of the United We can, who took so much breast, that so many lessons he wanted to give us in the matter of regeneration, with which he is falling upon him in the courts and courts is already a real joke. The second word in this about democratic quality is to carcage, I mean transparency. Up to 275 times the Transparency Council has had to force the Government to be transparent and it has been the citizens who have had to go to the National Court, for example, to explain to them how with their public money Mr Sánchez uses these means for private purposes or who make up the committee of experts. You're not much of transparency, you hit me more, look, official secrecy. They are already doing so with an absolute lack of courage and transparency is the fundamental pillar of democracy. And thirdly, you came to guarantee the Spaniards coexistence. This must have been done or you claim to have done so by agreeing these budgets with Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia. With Bildu, a political party that is Batasuna's successor, which legitimized the murders of innocent people on the basis of a non-existent political conflict - an expression that is very scary now to see how it has been exported to the Republican Left of Catalonia and to Junts per Catalunya: the political conflict -. A political party that has not asked for forgiveness for the murders of innocent people, that does not want to collaborate in clarifying the attacks, that receives with tributes in its peoples murderers condemned for having killed innocents, who say that they come to Madrid to overthrow the regime of 78, that give yes to the budgets as the first step of the independence of Euskal Herria. Is this how the Socialist Party and the United States want to ensure the peaceful coexistence of citizens in this country? And with Esquerra, who has his president in prison for very serious crimes, who are asking for amnesty or pardon or reform of the sedition crime to get out of jail through the back door, who continues to ask for the illegal referendum of self-determination and calling political prisoners to whom they are political prisoners. Is this about ensuring coexistence? Is this it? And already this morning we get up with their government partners, Unidad Podemos, who says that the crime of sedition that seeks to protect public order must be repealed. Are they going to guarantee coexistence by legitimizing anarchy? Is that the way of understanding the coexistence of the Socialist Party? They had the opportunity to choose Citizens and they have chosen madness. There you go, but the Spaniards will pay for it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u42	Thank you, Mr. Bal. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning, Vice President. What a noise! Don't you? How hyperventilated are the benches on the right here! How much intolerance and how much I hate! How I hate it! A lot of noise, a lot of intolerance... Besides, they don't stop calling us names, they add one every day: socialcommunists, totalitarians, age groups... Soon we will belong to the nobility as we continue to wear titles and surnames. [[Rumors]] We are here to discuss the budgets and we are therefore here to have a serious debate. I will focus on this section 25 of the State General Budgets, the Ministry of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, perhaps the smallest amount of the budget. I am going to talk about EUR 11.3 million of the total budget of EUR 420 million, i.e. 2.6% of the total. It is a departure with regard to democratic memory, which will bring happiness and justice to the families of the disappeared and the victims of Francoism and much future for our democracy. A democracy that is stronger when it recovers collective memory to honor the heroes and heroines who dedicated the best years of their life to fighting for freedom and equality. Never could such a small game be more useful, fairer, more necessary and more expected. I have already said this on some occasion in this rostrum, but I insist, I apologize to the victims and their families because we are very late. The victims of Francoism have had to wait more than forty years to feel that the State is accompanying them in the search for truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. Although we are late and know it, although thousands of victims will no longer be able to see it because they died waiting for state protection, better late than never. Finally, the state will take charge of the search for the disappeared and thanks to these budgets Spain recovers a part for the democratic memory, after the PP - we remember - will eliminate it completely in 2012. Faced with the historic amnesia of the right, our ethical commitment to democracy in our country and to the families of the victims of Francoism. You, gentlemen of the PP, of Citizens and of VOX, who go around giving lessons in democracy, happen to have an allergy to the heroes and heroines who fought for democracy that allows them to sit there today and sit on their seats. That you do not like this budget item indicates precisely what it is necessary. They have complained all these days in the Committee on Budgets because they say that it is not time to spend EUR 11 million on this item, for you it is never the time, for you it never touches. However, you who rule in Andalusia obviously have drawn the same amount, 11 million euros, from the 1 billion euros COVID funds that this government has transferred to my land to pay for the programs of its friends in Canal Sur. Only in Andalusia have the same game been spent. Please, I ask for consistency, do not insult collective intelligence. In addition, I have to thank, while the Government of Andalusia has left us virtually without budgets for democratic memory, that it is this Government that is finally going to open up the eighty mass graves, to highlight the study of the strip, that the history of Andalusians and Andalusians who were bombarded from Malaga to Almería by land, sea and air is known throughout the country. The large cemeteries, such as Cordoba's, will also be involved, so I thank you. In addition, this budget line will develop a web portal for democratic memory, manage the search for relatives of victims, develop a plan for exhumation of victims, and the State will finally promote the search for missing persons as a genuine public policy, as well as the very important and claimed launch of the national DNA bank to facilitate identifications. Courses, lectures, exhibitions, conferences, scientific and public events will be held to allow the truth and honour of the victims to prevail over decades of Francoist denial and propaganda. While the founder of VOX, Mr. José María Aznar, gave public subsidies to the Francisco Franco Foundation, this government will finance memorialist activities in favor of democracy. The places linked to Franco's horror will also be declared places of remembrance for the new generations to know first-hand that there were Democrats in this country who were killed by coupsmen who rose up in arms against democracy. Democracy was not brought by the escaped king, brought by those men and women who put their bodies in order to bring us freedom. That is why we are here, to educate new generations in anti-fascist culture, which is the best vaccine to defeat fascism. Because, yes, ladies and gentlemen of the right, you can be right-wing and antifascist, even if you don't know it. These budgets - and I finish - have been made possible thanks to those memorial activists who started about twenty years ago to open pits on their own, to take pictures of their family members on the street to make their pain known. Thanks to all of them on behalf of the United Nations We can, who sends you from here a warm embrace and our most sincere thanks, because with their hard and persistent task they have managed to keep our democracy in mind so that we never forget the Democrats who gave the best years of their lives for an ideal of justice, progress and freedom for our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs Velarde, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u45	I thank them all again, and I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Velarde. Mr Contreras Pelaez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u47	Thank you, Madam President. When the budget of the Ministry of the Presidency is examined, the truth is that one oscillates between astonishment and indignation. For example, the budget devoted to government advisers has been more than six times increased: from 623 million in 2011 to 777 million in the current budget. The budget of the advisers of the Office of the President of the Government has gone from the 7 million budgeted in 2018 to the more than 15 million currently, to be added a chapter of 5.5 million in terms of incentives to performance which, as you know, is a subterfuge to improve the remuneration of those affected. In short, at a time when Spain is facing the worst economic recession in eighty years, the President of the Government has considered it necessary to surround himself with a court of advisers who are highly remunerated. I will not go into Mrs Calvo's humorous allusions to the Centre for Sociological Research as a high-quality body, but I have been drawn to the attention, however, of the no less than 25 million dedicated to the activities of the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies, and among them, especially activities such as the creation of an equality laboratory, the launch of a new electronic magazine called Equalitys or the development of an inclusive language guide. Well, this egalitarian monomania, let's call it, could be understandable in a country suffering from a serious structural problem of historical inequality such as, for example, India, a caste society until recently, or the bloody misogynism still existing in so many Islamic countries. But, fortunately, Spain is not Pakistan, Spain is not one of those countries, in Spain equality before the law is the only morally relevant form of equality in a free country and is guaranteed by article 14 of the Constitution, although certainly eroded in recent times, precisely by policies of this Government, such as gender policies or criminal asymmetry, characteristic of gender laws that penalize with a different penalty from the same conduct as committed by a man or a woman. [[applause]] But, generally speaking, there is no problem of inequality in Spain. [[Applauds]] Those of us who believe in freedom know that in a free country there can be no socio-economic equality because we are simply different people, we have different talents, we have different levels of effort, we acquire a more or less careful professional qualification and therefore we end up with different incomes, and that income disparity is legitimate. The left, on the other hand, has never accepted meritocracy and needs to fuel social resentment and, therefore, needs to present as illegitimate any socio-economic inequalities. Hence the egalitarian obsession that we have detected in the government's budgetary policy. But of all the departures of this ministry, which I find most unjustifiable, are the 11 million, to which it has also referred profusely before, dedicated to policies of democratic memory, millions that are also involved in a grandiloquent rhetoric of great words: justice, truth, moral reparation. In our group we think that the only moral reparation that our fallen 80 years ago need is that we no longer see them as nationals or republicans, but simply as Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The laws of memory point in the exactly opposite direction and insist on the sides and, above all, insist on the moral hierarchy of the sides, the division into good and bad, because what moves them is not the intention to repair morally our fallen ones but the intention to obtain votes in 2020 with the dead of 1936, and for this reason it is necessary to screw in the minds of the Spaniards the equation according to which right is synonymous with fascism and repression and left is synonymous with democracy and freedom, which is rigorously false. [[applause]] Moreover, in doing so you are falling into sectarianism that led precisely to the failure of the Second Republic, which was a sectarian regime from its beginning. President Alcalá-Zamora stated that the 1931 Constitution had been a Constitution for the Civil War and the President of the Republic, Manuel Azaña, in this same rostrum stated that Spain had ceased to be Catholic and that the Republic was to consist of a vast demolition company and, in faith, that dozens of churches were demolished and burned down, just a few weeks after the Republic was proclaimed. [[Applauds]] Not only that, but it was also expelled under religious orders, a Law on the Defence of the Republic was adopted, which included measures as democratic as the previous censorship of the news, the closure of numerous newspapers or the banishment and imprisonment without trial and, above all, the left stood up in arms in October 1934 against a right-wing government out of free elections. [[Applauds]] In doing so, he broke the golden rule of democracy, which is that in democracy the ballot boxes speak, not the bullets, and showed a heritage conception of the regime. It was a republic only for Republicans, a republic only for the middle left Spain in which the right had no right to rule. At my last minute I'm going to allude to some victims who don't fit their memory laws. Last week in Rome was announced the beatification of 127 new martyrs of the civil war and one of them was my grandfather Rafael Contreras Leva. He was torn with an axe in Baena, Córdoba, by the fact of being a priest. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]] And, by the way, this is the crucifix he was wearing at the time of his murder. [[Show a crucifix]] That's what he had in his chest when they hit him with the axe. Both he and the 80 captive hostages were killed for what they were, not for what they had done. They had done nothing, they were killed for being right-wing, for being Catholic, etc. Like, for example, the bishop of Barbastro, Florentino Asensio, who was cut off from the testicles alive and allowed to die horribly for hours. Well, that's just drops of water in an ocean of 60,000 deaths, in an ocean of suffering. And in the Francoist rear, such brutal repression was being carried out...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u48	Mr. Contreras, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u49	And it's the main difference between us. We assume the crimes of both sides because...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Contreras. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, stood up.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Elorza González has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President and Minister for the Presidency, it is clear that neofascism wants to rewrite history. This usually happens. [[Rumors]] Wolves dressed in lambs, disguised as lambs, want to rewrite the history of Francoism. [[Applauds]] I am sorry in the part that touches you, I am sorry, Mr Contreras, said with all my heart, but it is not appropriate to disguise reality. Mr. Abascal, I'm addressing you. Oh, he's not here! Mr Abascal is not here today, Mr Abascal was not yesterday at 12 o'clock, Mr Abascal was not before yesterday at a minute. I wonder, Mr Abascal, if you are interested in the debate on the budget law, because you are never here. [[Applauds]] This is serious, and I say it to the Bureau. Of course, if something is Mr Abascal, it is transparent. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: What about the government?]] The government is there, ma'am. In addition, I wanted to ask Mr. Abascal something because this morning I also got worried when I read in infoFree that chat of important military charges, apparently already retired, who dedicate their hours to writing letters to the king expressing their worries and their coup dreams. I wanted to ask him if he knows if in those comments in the chat - because apparently he has been in contact, I don't know if it was he who wrote that letter that these characters addressed to the king - I find myself, or my family, or these ladies and gentlemen deputies here, among the 26 million Spanish sons of bitches that would have to be shot. [[pointing to the bench on the left]] [[Applauds]] You are talking here about coexistence, freedom, democracy. What 26 million Spaniards, sons of bitches, according to a Major General, want to shoot, should we shoot? Say it. You're the ones lighting up hate. You're turning hate on with these comments. They're his people, VOX's, the far right. Read those chat comments, they're really troubling. They're showing that you're disguised as reality. Mr. Married. He's not here. He's not here today, but he's not here yesterday either. Twelve hours and not a minute. I wasn't there yesterday either. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u52	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u53	He would be opening hospitals or doing anti-Spain, talking about freedom in Spain suffering from a situation similar to that in Cuba or Venezuela. Would Mr. Casado be pairing with the leaders of the Venezuelan or Cuban opposition? Is this normal? Is this an interest, a responsibility, a defence of the interests of Spain, Mr Casado? It is also absent, like Mr Abascal, who, by the way, I believe was in the Canary Islands today at the head of the Spanish Navy fleet to stop and prevent the arrival of the pateras. Woe!, Basques, wonderful sailors, there are many in history: Legazpi, Elcano, Abascal. [[Laughter]] Anyway, terrible. Nor do I ask - I look at the Bureau - for Mrs Arrimadas. I don't see her today and I didn't see her yesterday either. If the leaders of the opposition parties do not attend the budget debate either today or yesterday or the day before yesterday, what are we playing at? Well, neither is Mr. García Aegean. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u55	Neither is Mr. García Aegean. They're good. They are disguised as reality, they are deceiving the budget debate with nonsense, with frivolities, as the spokesman of the PP, who dares to disqualify the Secretary of State of Democratic Memory, has done. You'll have seen it! You have no shame. Section 25 has a lot of content because it is the most investor, the most investor in people, in human teams; human teams that invest in ideas, in plans, in bills, in strategies, in studies, in preparatory analyses of the international agenda of the President of the Government in Europe so as not to make ridicule, as some did. Investment also in people, yes, in people who are good people, advisors and high offices, and in people who are still in the coves and in mass graves and who will come out, as an example of reparation, justice and memory, to be handed over to their relatives. [[Applauds]] This is what this Government does and what it also does in section 25 is a legislative plan, with a timetable that is in place; what it does is to coordinate the policy of ministries and establish plans, projects and strategies; what it does is to study Spain's presence in Europe with concrete projects and proposals, the recovery of memory; what it does is to study the co-governance regime and prepare projects for access to European aid. What this team does in section 25 is to prepare the processes of governance, democracy and quality; what it does is to prepare the processes of accountability of this Government and its commitments with a general leadership; what it does is to fight with a structure created for the purpose against misinformation, which is not censorship or the elimination of political criticism, but misinformation against those who from abroad want to question and destabilize democracy and attack the freedom of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The freedom of article 20 is guaranteed, as is true information. And finally, that Moncloa team is also working to ensure that this budget is applied in an equitable, fair and redistributive manner. I'm done. They will not be able to rewrite history nor will they disguise reality, no matter how much they lie, no matter how much they manipulate and no matter how much they intoxicate. Animated Madam Vice-President of the Government. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u56	Mr. Elorza, thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. [[Mrs Olona Choclán asks for the floor]] Mrs. Olona Choclán, on the basis of what article do you ask me to say?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u57	Madam President, pursuant to Rule 72 in relation to Rule 71, for serious references lacking in decorum and implying inaccuracies in the conduct in this case of a parliamentary group and its chairman at the head.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u58	Can you refer to the specific reference to which you refer, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u59	He refers specifically to the part of Mr Odón Elorza's speech in which he referred specifically to, on the one hand, an alleged manifesto subscribed by retired military personnel and, on the other hand, to the information published by a media outlet concerning an alleged internal chat, imputing this parliamentary group and VOX and its president to be the authors of that manifesto and specifically to say that they are our people. That is the concrete allusion, Madam President, and if this is an inaccuracy, it is because we do not know the truth of that chat. It is uncertain that this is a manifesto. It is, yes, a manifestation in favour of Spain's national unity and, as such, of course it is our people. Mr Odón Olorza asked if he was in that supposed internal chat among the people to whom he refers that he should be shot. We don't know him because we have nothing to do with that chat. Where you are in court proceedings at an investigating court in Guipúzcoa, and that is what I am telling you for personal knowledge. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. [[Mr Elorza González asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u61	A direct allusion has been made at the end. It is false, what you have said is absolutely false, radically false. Do not be so lying here in the House and making that kind of accusation because what you have said in the end is absolutely and radically false, as much as you are fueling such campaigns on the networks. You feed campaigns and you feed hatred so that certain gentlemen who carry weapons write to the king or launch into chat threats or dreams of shooting. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorza. We continue with the debate in Section 24, Ministry of Culture and Sport. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u63	With venom, the president. Ladies and gentlemen, almost a year ago, for the first time in our country's recent democratic history, a coalition government was formed and I am very honoured to be a part of it. This Government refused, we refuse, to face the pandemic crisis with austerity policies and cuts, and we put all the machinery of the State at the service of solidarity, of rescuing people and maintaining their jobs, without leaving anyone behind. The door to the crisis is guided by a marked social accent, by a feeling of empathy, civic virtue that we need to cultivate all, not only for reasons of justice, but also of pure rationality, in order to ensure coexistence and social peace. It can be said, ladies and gentlemen, that the draft General State Budgets presented in this House is a faithful expression of this ethical and political orientation. By focusing specifically on culture, I am not tired of repeating that it is necessary, that culture is necessary and that culture is safe. Its importance lies in its triple dimension - which I want to recall here -: firstly, as the right of all people, both of those who make it - artists, writers, creators - and of those who consume it, the citizens in general. Copyright and universal access to culture are, respectively, two of its most significant achievements. Secondly, culture is also an industry, an industry that generates wealth and employment. And, thirdly - I think it is opportune to say this after what we have heard - culture is our system of values, built throughout history, expression of the critical and democratic thinking of the struggle for rights - I would say Ihering - concrete in rules and principles, in traditions, customs feelings and beliefs that make up our vision of the world, our public ethics and that define us as a country. These values point to a Spain open to Europe and the world, civil, modern, humanist, based on the rule of law, democracy and the recognition and guarantee of the fundamental rights of all. Unfortunately, culture, in the three senses pointed out, has been severely and severely beaten during these months. The measures adopted on limitation of opportunities and mobility, although they have been essential from the perspective of public health, have made it difficult, if not impeded, for live artistic performances and the face-to-face consumption of culture. Let us recognize that these necessary limitations have led, and continue to do so, to major economic damage to the cultural industries as a whole and to cultural workers, which we have helped to alleviate with two decrees, one in May and the other in November, validated by this House. The pandemic has also distorted our system of values, altered priorities and generated mistrust, fears, not a small rift, and enthroned uncertainty as an omnipresent factor in our future perspective. Now we all feel more vulnerable and aware of our fragility. It is true that other values have emerged that we must cultivate and extend, such as fraternity, the desire for harmony and unity, civic friendship and that social empathy to which I referred before, mutual respect, and the priority of health, life or also culture. Many citizens have experienced the harm of others, the pain of their fellow citizens as their own, and this is good, it is exemplary; this is the way. This draft General Budgets of the State is intended to help in the coming times with these mires of solidarity, cooperation, stability and determination. We want to combat uncertainty and mistrust, and to bet on certainties and trust in ourselves as a great country that we are. To this end, we look to the future, considering culture and sport as basic contents of the welfare state, of our constitutional democracy and of the citizens' rights catalogue. For this reason, culture and sport have been the subject of a relevant treatment in the preparation of these budgets of 2021. For the first time in a long time - even I would say in our history - are not the culture and sport the pagans of the crisis. And far from cuts like those in other times of crisis, your budget for 2021 is growing significantly. This is one of the commitments we have made in the Government programme; we have fulfilled, despite the pandemic or, if you prefer, we have more reason to fulfil the pandemic. The Government shows its commitment to culture and sport by including in the ten lever policies of the National Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience a specific line for the impetus of the cultural and sports industries. This means providing them with an additional 206 million euros, additional for 2021. This economic injection added or complementary to the budget is an essential factor in driving the process of transforming our creative and cultural industries into a new model based on digitisation, innovation, quality, the defence of the rights of artists and creators, gender equality and sustainability. Thus, and to go into detail, the budget for 2021 in consolidated terms amounts to EUR 848.40 million. Adding the European Union's funds, the department's budget stands at more than EUR 1 billion, in particular in 1054, an increase of 37.7% over the 2018 budgets. And if we are talking about the government's cultural policies as a whole, the increase is more than 25%. Ladies and gentlemen, with these numbers, with these budgets, the Ministry of Culture and Sport responds to the sectors that have suffered the most from the crisis of COVID-19. Addressed to these sectors, including performing and musical arts, cinema, fine arts, book, author's fashion and the rest of the cultural industries or visual arts, we have recorded significant budget increases. Thus, for example, the National Institute of Performing Arts and Music, which also includes theatre, circus, dance and, of course, our flamenco, increases its endowment by 34.5 % compared to the previous year, which is 53 million euros more. 2 million euros will be dedicated to the launch of the National Center for Disseminating Dance, thus fulfilling the commitment we have acquired with one of the artistic expressions less historically supported by the cultural institutions of our country. Similarly, the cinema and audiovisual sector, the Spanish hub we want to build, are reinforced through the budget of the Institute of Cinematography and Audiovisual Arts, which increases its endowment by 34 million to 121.6 million euros. We maintain the Cinematography Protection Fund, endowed with almost 70 million euros and on which depends the call of the usual lines of help of the ICAA to the production of films, as well as aids to the distribution, to the participation in festivals and audiovisual markets and to the cinemas, to which we dedicate 17 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, reading is perhaps the most personal, intimate cultural activity, of loneliness or encounter with oneself to learn, to entertain, to broaden our gaze. Well, the Directorate-General for the Book increases its budget by just over 30%. This increase is strongly linked to the Plan for the Promotion of Reading, of which I would like to highlight the provision of funds to public libraries, by purchasing through the bookstore system, for an amount of 1.8 million euros. It is a measure of reinforcement to the independent bookstores, to the neighborhood bookstores, to which we have already helped with the Decree of 5 May last, which are the heart of the entire chain of the book and which have suffered singularly. [[Applauds]] We also support the libraries, which we already have, and other forthcoming ones, such as the library of Vigo, the library of Barcelona, the library of Malaga or the library of Alicante. And together with this, we will close in the next few days a strategic agreement with three bands with Correos, with the booksellers and their representatives - with Cegal - to boost the book trade by reducing the shipping costs; an initiative with three clear objectives: to reduce costs to the booksellers in the shipments and also to the citizens in their purchases; to promote universal access to reading to the elderly who are at home, to the sick and also to the inhabitants of the Spanish interior; and finally to encourage reading, which is what makes us free and gives us a thought of our own, of that moral autonomy, of that majority of age with which the illustrated dreamed. The crisis has also had a virulent impact on the art galleries sector. That is why we will invest EUR 3 million in the increase in the state collections, in line with what we have already done with the decree of May and other subsequent aid. This is a highly demanded measure with the ultimate objective of supporting artists, but it will also serve to support our gallery sector. By the way, I encourage all institutions, administrations, agencies and companies to do the same; let us promote Spanish art and Spanish galleries. Similarly, the protection and safeguarding of cultural and intangible heritage receives an increase of EUR 340 000 in aid. The music bands of the Valencian Community or the belenists will be two of the next additions to this rich and diverse Intangible Heritage of our country. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reaffirm the responsibility that this ministry, the Ministry of Culture and Sport, has in maintaining the ecosystem of cultural institutions in the country. We are talking about twenty-five state centres, archives and museums located throughout Spain, which are a national and international reference in their fields of specialization and which are a fundamental element of territorial cohesion. Museums preserve our identity, testify to our history and disseminate it rigorously, making known to young and older people the evolution of culture to this day. But they are also key for their association with one of the main economic drivers of our country: tourism, what we call cultural tourism. And Spain is a world power. For this reason, and to put just a few examples, in these General State Budgets we propose extraordinary transfers for our great Prado Museum, which will receive 13 million euros extra; for the Reina Sofia National Museum, which increases its budget by 11 million or for the Thyssen Collection Foundation which experiences an increase of almost 2.5 million euros. The stage centers themselves will also receive 6.5 million and the matches for the country's major lyrical centers - the Teatro Real, the Liceu de Barcelona, the Maestranza de Sevilla, the Palau de les Arts de Valencia or the Opera de Bilbao - experience an overall increase of more than 4.5 million euros. Other cultural institutions, such as the Joan Miró Foundation, the Academy of Cinema, the Circle of Fine Arts, the IVAM of Valencia, the San Sebastián Film Festival, the Heritage City of Mérida or the Centro Nacional del Vidrio de Segovia Foundation, are being improved their aid, as well as those intended for works throughout the national territory, by all the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain understands that the cultural and creative industries are a strategic sector of our economy and the incorporation of digital technology into its dynamics must act as an important accelerator of its transformative capacity. It is a question of promoting culture in its dimension of wealth-generating and employment-generating industry; employment that must also be of quality, with stability and legal certainty, that will flourish and be visible, with all our recognition, and here the development and culmination of the artist's status will be fundamental. [[Applauds]] For this reason, and to give just a few examples, we have created a new line of support for the development of video games and digital creation, for an amount of EUR 1 million. The relationship between culture and technology has its most paradigmatic expression in the video game sector. This effort to modernize and digitize must always be accompanied by respect for copyright and intellectual property rights. The search for a more efficient management of the documentation systems of works, of the licenses or of the division of the rights is the reason why our budgets include transfers of 10 million euros for projects of digitization of the collective management entities, in a clear demonstration of the support and commitment of this ministry with those entities, with all of them. Of course we create a line of aids for the digitisation of the entire chain of the book - publishers, distributors, booksellers - for the amount of 8.2 million euros. Digitization also of the archives of the National Library of Spain, increasing its budget by 3 million euros. Support programme for creation and training promoted by the ICAA in the amount of EUR 10.1 million. We also reserve 4.2 million euros for the analysis of data of the immense and most valuable documentary fund of our National Film Library, of the Spanish film library. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now also talk about sport. This Government regards sport as a right, it said so at the beginning of my intervention. Sport is health, physical and mental; it is the link between peoples and between hobbies; it is well-being; it favors tourism; it creates industry and generates employment. It is a mark of our country outwards, where we are recognized and valued as a fundamental sporting power, especially in team sports. Ladies and gentlemen, we are much better than we sometimes believe. This speech also translates into figures in this budget with the aim of protecting all its social fabric, economically reactivating the sector and driving the four major transformations that our sport needs for the future: digitization, energy transition, strengthening the link between health and sport - health, sport and clean play - and betting on women's sport, basic sport, university sport and inclusive sport. To this end, the CSD will have a budget of 251 million in 2021, to which will be added 9.4 million for the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport, in a fight against doping, that is, against the dirty game, which we will reinforce with the new law in 2021. There is a bet decided by the sports federations as an essential instrument for the development of competitive sport in our country. We respect them in their autonomy and we need them and value them. For this reason, its budget increases by 23.37 % to EUR 66.3 million. To this allocation, the transfers derived from the proceeds from the sale of audiovisual rights must be added. In a circumstantially Olympic year, the Spanish Government strongly supports the activity of the Spanish Olympic Committee, increasing its allocation by 3.8 million euros, resulting in a total of 4.7 million euros, and that of the Spanish Paralympic Committee up to 1.9 million euros, with an increase of 1.5; we went from 400 000 euros to almost 2 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, support for women's sport is also very important. I will give you a single figure, adding all that is devoted to women's sport, that is, to the promotion of equality in sport, the Ministry of Culture and Sport, through the CSD, will dedicate for next year 15.7 million euros, which represent an increase of 540 % over the previous year. We also want to support the work of the autonomous communities and, therefore, transfers to these administrations grow by 30%, reaching EUR 14.6 million. Similarly, for the improvement of their sports facilities, the municipalities and the deputies will be increased by 876 %, from just over EUR 500 000 to EUR 5 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in the recent words of the President of the Government, these General State Budgets represent the best vaccine against the virus of injustice, unemployment or precarious employment and lack of growth. Culture is necessary and also needs us. We bet on it, as these budgets do, without doubt, and also on sport because we bet on rights, the economy, employment, the prestige of Spain and the best values we have cultivated and built throughout our history: values of humanity, civilization and coexistence. This is culture too, ladies and gentlemen. Vote for these budgets by thinking of the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, as you know, I am used to the brief speeches - things from the Joint Group - but in this case I am going to set a record, as I am going to the rostrum - excuse me, Minister, there is no disrespect in this - only to defend the living amendments of the political forces in the Joint Group. Nothing more, Madam President. Spectacular. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u67	Thank you, President. Minister, you know that my parliamentary group, Citizens, was willing to reach a budgetary agreement, and you also know that you and I share many great views on some aspects of culture, but I also know that utilitarianism - not yours - governs the designs of Moncloa's strategy: all at the service of the interests of a few, which will stand in the sacrifice of the interests of many. [[The Lord]] For these budgets in the field of culture and sport, we have put forward a number of amendments, some of which I will highlight; I have already said that they have voted for all those who have not, for all of them. Let's see, about sponsorship, you have made a timid proposal to encourage sponsorship, but it is not ambitious enough and it does not affect all the forms of sponsorship that exist. Needless to say, the importance of solidarity between citizens, between private sector institutions when everything collapses, when the public disappears, when shows, premieres, filming, sponsorship can be decisive. We proposed in a law new figures that broaden the concept of sponsorship, such as micro-mecenation, called crowdfunding or volunteering. In addition, we proposed to them to promote the object of patronage, to extend it unquestionably to scientific institutions or universities; and for all this we registered a law. It is common practice that when we talk about sponsorship, there is a general consensus among practically all the Members; for we have proposed that some activities be classified as a priority sponsorship, namely: the institutes of biomedical or health research have been left out of this priority sponsorship in their budgets - it seems that we have not learned anything, with which we have above and with which these entities remain outside the sponsorship -; the Carlos III Institute of Health is also out of sponsorship, nothing less than Carlos III; the State Agency of the Higher Council of Scientific Research has also not been considered a priority for sponsorship; the ONCE Foundation, also outside; the Spanish Red Cross, also outside; the high-performance centres, with which they are passing with this pandemic, also outside of sponsorship. We proposed to you in an amendment that these activities should be incorporated as a priority, what have you voted for? Against. Let's see what else. We have called for a budget to be provided for a prosecution specialized in new intellectual property offences in this budget. He knows that during the confinement piracy has increased, he also knows that the resources used in the fight against piracy are very effective, because with few resources many things are done. A prosecutor's office that faced the digital friends of others would be very welcome, what did they vote for? Against. By the way, Minister, I express to you a concern and a fear that stirs my sleepless mind. I have seen that they have adopted an amendment that removes the budget from the second section, moving the budget from the second section for an anniversary. This of taking the budget out of the second section and of not approving our amendment fills me with doubts, are they going to transpose the European Intellectual Property Directive? I'll tell you why. On several occasions I have heard speakers from We can speak against this directive, they voted not in Europe their governing partners. They say in Podemos that having to pay for a book or to watch a movie may restrict the right to read a book or to watch a movie. In Podemos, party of bourgeois bohemians, he fooled them that the French say, he fills their mouths by saying that the creators must be able to live from their work but not charge for it. I suppose they mean that they will be filled and will be able to survive thanks to the happiness that gives them that someone reads a book or sees a film without paying for it; this already fills them and feeds them. Citizens have accused us, from Podemos, on many occasions of being obsessed because the creators can have income for their works; for yes, we are obsessed, just as we are obsessed that a hotelier has income with the hospitality, that a farmer has income with the sale of the products of the field or that a fisherman with the fishing, is not different. Look, the main threat to the creators of Spanish culture has them next to you in the Council of Ministers; I ask you to keep the Podemos theses away from the rights of the creators and the protection of intellectual property. We also ask you in another tumbled amendment to declare as an event of exceptional public interest the 2021-2022 season of the Iberdrola Women's Football League, what is the context? As you know, before the coronavirus, female football was very powerful, with many spectators, with quite successful retransmissions, and everything went down. Mrs. Irene Lozano informed us that in her plans she is making this professional league for the 2021-2022 season. We have proposed that those involved in sponsoring this league should have special tax treatment. What has the most feminist government voted since the first one-cell organisms, 12 billion years ago, began with sexual reproduction? Against. I guess they'll send Mr. Iglesias to encourage the football players to scream very loudly from the bench: us, us! The last two questions I would like to comment on go against the partners who have chosen to approve these budgets, and I therefore believe that they do not enjoy the approval of the Government. The first, the declaration of exceptional event of public interest of the centenary of the burden of the Alcántara Regiment. We're not the country that treats its history better. Do you know that an episode of similar relevance as the charge of the English Light Brigade has great movies, poems and even a magnificent song by Iron Maiden, The Trooper, and it was a useless cavalry charge, unlike the Alcántara, which you know saved many lives when the Spaniards were persecuted and fled the rifenos until they took refuge in Monte Arruit; it was a heroic charge, they knew they were going to a safe death and that the Alcántara Regiment received the laureate in 2012? What was wrong with celebrating this event? They voted against it. Don't worry, that civil society will hold this burden, the Spanish cavalry will do it too, and my parliamentary group will help you as much as possible. And the last: provide Spanish Cultural Action with budget to defend the Hispanic legacy abroad. I don't need to tell you what's going on with the statues of some characters in the history of Spain. But, of course, they rule based on those who lie every day about Spain, dedicate all their political action to denigrating our name, promoting the black legend and insulting everything we are. I know you will not support this amendment because I would offend Otegi and Rufián, but as long as I am in politics or as long as Citizens are in institutions you will find proposals like this, and the day you get back what you were, you will support them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u68	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I will speak very briefly to defend some of the BNG's amendments, although you have already voted against it, unfortunately. Among them, that the heading 470 of the film fund be modified, to increase it from 70 to 100 million euros and in parallel create a specific line of aids for films, feature films, short films, audiovisual productions in official languages other than Spanish by the Ministry of Culture, a part that existed at some point and that we believe is reasonable in a plurinational, pluricultural and multilingual State, in which we also pay taxes in which we speak different languages. A plan to rescue the cultural sector in Galicia; an integral action for the international cultural promotion of Cape Fisterra, under the distinction of the seal of the European heritage; resources for the library of Tomiño, which had budgeted half a million euros in 2011 and that still the state did absolutely nothing; agreements with municipalities such as Ares to rehabilitate the Monastery of Santa Catalina of Montefaro, or that of San Sadurniño, for the rehabilitation and conditioning of the Castle of Naraío, and finally the increase of the economic contribution of the ministry to the Foundation of the Museum of Contemporary Art of Vigo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u70	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr Baldoví Roda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, I wanted to go out with this mask of the Federation of Music Societies of the Valencian Community, of which I am particularly proud. It represents 550 societies, 40,000 musicians, 60,000 students and 200,000 partners who, as you say, generate culture, generate employment, generate education. In short, in many peoples it is the only society that exists. You have said a few words that I reproduce: the Valencian music bands will be the next addition to the rich and diverse heritage of our country. And I'll tell you one thing that you'll understand because you're Valencian, like me, amb moneys, torons. It is good that we incorporate them into the rich heritage of our country, but it is also good that we provide them with more resources to be able to do the work they do. It is true that this year the subsidy has risen, doubled, from 7,000 to 15,000. It was an absolutely ridiculous subsidy that, already in times of the People's Party - remote and let's hope very remote - I suffered on several occasions, but going from 7,000 to 15,000 seems to me very little. We called for it to be multiplied by ten, and we also called for another amendment to lower VAT on musical instruments. In those seconds that I have left, I would like to thank you, yes, for having increased the allocations to Palau de la Música and IVAM, but still far from other cultural containers of the State of similar importance to these great cultural containers of Valencia. Thank you very much, and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u73	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as you know, we are going to support these budgets despite not getting as far as we wanted, especially in matters affecting your ministry. After an intense crisis and now that it can be expected to expand for a few months, we thought it was important not only to inject money into the cultural sector in order to save their economic situation, but also to make it easier for those citizens who wanted to contribute their own resources to the cultural sector to do so. And these have been our two lines of work in what affects your ministry. As I was saying, we were not only asking for more investments, but we were also asking for issues that did not directly affect the investments of his ministry. We called for an increase in the deductions established in matters of sponsorship. Passing from 5 to 10, we were just asking for that. We thought that that could allow the cultural sector in all its variants to regenerate, could face this season that stands much stronger, with much more muscle. You have not accepted this question, you have vetoed this amendment, but we want to claim it from here. And not only did we ask for that, we also asked for other priority sponsorship activities to be incorporated. It seems to us an anomaly that high-level museums, such as the Macba, cannot compete on equal terms with Queen Sofia as far as sponsorship is concerned, so we asked to amend this error and we will continue to request it in other spaces. We also called in other cases for an increase in resources directly allocated to some foundations, to some museums, to some organizations that enrich the cultural fabric of our country. We asked, first of all, to pay a debt outstanding from the ministry with the Fundació Joan Miró; they have accepted and we celebrate it. We also ask for an increase, an extra contribution to the Fundació Gala-Salvador Dalí, a great cultural reference of our country, together with Miró; these have accepted them and we celebrate it. They have not accepted, yes, amendments that provided for an aid for the construction of the Thyssen museum in Sant Feliu de Guixols or contributions to the Festival de Peralada, which we continue to claim, since next year celebrates its anniversary. We therefore thank you, Minister, for accepting these amendments, but we ask you to continue working and to continue working together to improve the situation of the Catalan cultural fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Merino Martínez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u75	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to confess something to you: on 29 March, when the CIS of Tezanos published some data, it informed us of something that I did not believe - I think this happens to all the Spaniards and to 100 percent of the House, even to the Minister of Culture and Sports -; that day - remember, minister? - the CIS established, said that Mr Rodríguez Uribes was the second most unknown minister of the bench - eye, which is already difficult -, which he did not know 75% of the respondents, and the worst valued - eye, that this is already difficult in this Council of Ministers - and I did not believe it - as you, minister - I did not believe Mr Tezanos, but it is going to be true, it will be true that in this he was right, Mr Rodríguez Uribes: that in addition to being the worst minister of the Council of Ministers you are the most unknown; you are the most unknown. You are not even known to many Members of this House, who were surprised when they saw you come up here to the rostrum. What luck we have had in the sport with you and Mrs Lozano - luckily - and it is that you beat it to the wrist, Mr Rodríguez Uribes, not only because of the disaster of the accounts that you have brought here today - not only because of that disaster - but because of your attitude towards sport, which is what I am talking about today. During the 76 days that lasted the first state of alarm you made the titanic effort to dedicate a video conference with European sport ministers to the sports agenda. Eleven months later, as you said - almost 325 days in office - you have increased that agenda, according to Moncloa, to another video conferencing with European ministers, another video conferencing with autonomous advisors, because they stood up in arms, and two or three meetings with the Spanish Olympic Committee, because we are at the door of some Olympic games. But the height of your leaving office as Minister of Sports and your negative attitude is dated, and it was October 11th, because you were not to represent Spain and the Spaniards in the final of Roland Garros, who won one of the best athletes we have and who has had this country, and you were not there. [[shows a picture of Rafa Nadal]] [[Applauds]] I don't know where he was. Where was he, what schedule did he have? It is that this gentleman has done more than you for the Spanish sport because, weeks before winning this tournament, he managed to join, along with other athletes and Red Cross, 14 million euros to help almost 2 million people, in a solidarity initiative in favor of people affected by the COVID. You've done more this gentleman for sport than you, and you stayed that day at home. Today, Minister, the European Commission is bringing down accounts; I do not know whether the multitude of advisers it has passed on the Commission's report, where it says that the impact of COVID will leave a drain on our GDP of more than 5 billion and 85 000 jobs. That is not what we have heard, and our amendments reflect it, amendments which I take for granted, and I hope that today we will vote in favour of the mimes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u76	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Commun... [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: No, no]] Excuse me. They didn't tell us. You have the floor, Mrs Cruz-Guzman. I already said that I had not consumed all the time and thought: how good will one of the interveners do. I'm sorry, but they didn't tell us. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Uribes, you do not have a year's term of office in your Government and you have already chosen your role in this cabinet. He has decided to be a vase, a pure tool, a simple vase that neither bites nor cuts in this government, clearly divided into three parts: those who set fire to every thing they touch, those who put out those fires and those who just appear, do nothing, and with this budget for Culture he shows us that he is in the last group. That the Spanish cultural industry is in full crisis is known by all: cinemas and closed theaters, tents of the folded circuses, and galleries and bookstores that will never lift the blind again, so this budget is totally insufficient. It is also said by colleagues in the European Parliament, who demanded at least 2% of the resilience funds for Culture, and in Spain we did not get 1%. In addition, they exclude from these funds the municipalities, which manage 70% of the cultural expenditure, and the only ones capable of returning artists to the stage. I don't know if the government abandons culture because it thinks it doesn't give it votes - a goal that hides behind every political strategy and that so much work gives to Mr.Tezanos - or because of the obsession of continuing to emulate the Venezuela of Maduro, where the only museum that survives is the mausoleum of Hugo Chávez. What I do know is that we don't want these recipes for Spain. I'm disgusted by the truth committee. Its obligation is to create a plural media ecosystem and to support them through collective bargaining, for example. Leave Venezuela and other dictatorships the imposition of unique thought, which brings only misery. I am lucky to belong to the first generation of Spanish democracy. We have enjoyed forty years of freedom and uncensored attitude, always with the allied hand of culture, the essence of our country. Don't leave her, don't censor her. Among the attacks on our freedom is the attack on our language, a vehicle of intellectual, scientific and cultural prosperity throughout history. Molina himself, director of Cervantes at the time of Zapatero, has called it a linguistic genocide, an action that responds to the stupidity of a short-term government that, hopefully, is also short. We have tabled amendments in this budget for a plan to protect Spanish culture and Spanish culture, as well as funding to pay tribute to the father of the first Spanish grammar, Antonio de Nebrija. We have tabled more than one hundred amendments concerning a rescue fund, health measures, etc. Didn't one of these seem interesting to you? Is this the consensus and dialogue that they show us? You have just said that we have abandoned and changed our values, but our political party, the People's Party, is immutable in its values. The one who lost the values was the Socialist Party, being able to negotiate these budgets with Bildu and the independenceists. We continue with the same values and defending Spanish freedom and culture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cruz-Guzman. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Now yes, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u79	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, minister. The advantage that VOX doesn't like to work... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u80	One second. Please remain silent so that you can listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u81	He said that the advantage that VOX does not like to work or that he cares the least about culture is that we have been spared his amendments, saying that animal torture is culture and that where the millions are so that they can go quietly to see the innoble art - in my view - of the bullfighting that, by the way, UNESCO has just said that it is not culture. I hope you've been briefed. Let us hope that in their intervention now we will also be spared the appointment of rigor to Lorca, whom they always quote and use without complexes when it comes to talking about bulls, but which they do not claim in any other field, and it is no wonder, since it was their political ancestors, in some case even biological ones, who killed him. I hope you'll save us the horn and you'll save the ridiculous. I'll talk about the budgets myself. From our parliamentary group we are convinced and convinced that culture is an essential common good and a right, and that is what we have tried to put into these budgets. As my colleague Eduardo Maura, a former Member of this House and one of the promoters of the artist's status, says, the struggle for the sustainability of culture, and the lives of those who dedicate themselves to it, is a matter of state and citizenship. We are therefore dealing with a matter of state, and these budgets are a first basis on which to continue to work and focus on what my group claims to be the three pillars of work in culture. The first axis would be access to culture as a right. This crisis has highlighted that, as I said before, culture is an essential good and that in moments of pain and uncertainty, such as those we are experiencing, it is extremely necessary. And it has also made clear that the more money, the more cultural rights. How many girls and boys from disadvantaged families without digital resources have been deprived of access to culture during confinement? We must work to make culture a right and not a privilege. And dedicating oneself to culture cannot be the privilege of a few renters either. Cultural work must be neglected. This pandemic has only deepened in the crisis of the cultural sector, the one that always receives first and the one that has never just lifted its head, and this has to end. This will not be a progressive government unless it truly bets on the dignity of women cultural workers. [[Applauds]] And finally, for culture to be a right, it has to be diverse. Spain is a plurilingual and plurinational country. Here we talk a lot about homeland and its greatness. Well, my homeland is one where Irene Solà is read in Madrid, Chus Pato in Barcelona and Harkaitz Cano in Seville, which sees in its languages a wealth and not a threat, which sees in its diversity of hope. And these three pillars, access to culture as a right, the neglect of cultural work and diversity as a value, are the ones that promote these budgets, which represent the largest investment in culture since 2009. We are talking about more than EUR 1 billion of European funds for culture, with significant increases - the minister has detailed them - for example, in the promotion and cultural cooperation - here they will allow me to stop - 15 million destined to articulate a project with the City Council of Barcelona for cultural and scientific capital. It is in this commitment for the necessary decentralization of the State, also in the cultural field, where we recognize ourselves. In this respect, I would like to stress that these budgets also include specific items for the translation of books into the different languages of the State. Up - it has already been detailed - the endowments for libraries, promotion of books and music and dance, for the promotion of cultural industries and for the digitization of art. These are good budgets, which point to a way forward, and here we must recognize the work of all, starting with the Ministry of Culture and its minister, who is here with us today. Once these budgets have been approved, we have important challenges to address as soon as possible, two of them inescapable: the status of the artist and - the minister also said - the work, which is pending, for gender equality in the world of culture. Following the devastating diagnosis of the recently published study of the Observatory for Gender Equality in the field of culture, it is urgent and very necessary work. And in the field of sport our group places special emphasis on basic sport, in which professional sport is permeated by compliance with Law 3/2007, on Equality, what is not happening today, and social justice, and in which sport can be developed as a context of democratization and community-barrio-people generation. There is a legislature, as many as some have resisted, and it is a left-wing and plurinational legislature. I urge the investiture bloc, the budget bloc, but also all groups that want to join, to fight together and together for the right to culture. There are no excuses for not making culture a central element of our policies. We have a unique opportunity and we must seize it. I didn't want to end up unanswered by citizens' direct allusions. I was gonna say he's not here, but he just walked in. Citizens is a party that has just shown that it has stayed for so little time to devote itself to analyzing the social origin of my members, but as always, and in my case, it is wrong. When I want to talk to you about the genealogy of my family, about its origins; when I want to talk about its hunger, but until then be very careful to call me bourgeois. [[Applauds]] And with regard to the summary he has made of our commitment to cultural policies against descarization, he has a clear problem of understanding. We want creators to be more and better remunerated, and to end the benefits of four rich people who support their party. We want more just, innovative and time-compliant forms, not night-time forms, as you are, forms, as I said, more creative...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u82	Mrs. Garcia, your time is up. Thank you so much for everything.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u83	What creativity can we expect from a party that intends to govern culture with an Excel table? Thank you very much. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u84	Thank you. Tell me, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u85	Mr President, in relation to Rule 72 and under Rule 81, for allusions that compromise the accuracy in this House, I would like to ask Mrs Garcia to explain which biological ancestors of this party or of members of this party murdered García Lorca. That would be interesting. And I want to remind you that the fact that...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u86	Thank you so much. Anything to say, Mrs. Puig? Otherwise, we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u87	No, I'm not taking anything back. I'd ask you to put on the mask. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u88	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We continue with the debate. Mr Ramírez del Río has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. This budget that we are debating today in this House is a sign of the government's disconnection from reality. The colleagues who have preceded me in the use of the floor have already pointed out how absurd it is to expect Spain to make EUR 222 billion next year, even more so after yesterday's OECD announcement, but there are many other aspects in this budget which unfortunately are similar. Taking advantage of the announced expansive budget, I expected to find funds for workers in the cultural industries, but there is nothing like that in the State General Budgets for the Ministry of Culture and Sport. In this area we can only see the truth of the Minister's own words, Mr Rodríguez Uribes: I certainly lacked empathy with the cultural sector. The failure of the Government to act in the face of the catastrophe that the sector was living and living triggered a wave of protests. The actors were the first group to demand his resignation. To this day, I think there is no longer a single trade union, association or subgroup that has not requested it: painters, sculptors, actors, taurino world, publishing world..., from the Catalan Academy of Music or the KREA Foundation to that of the Toro de Lidia, passing through the Federation of Companies of Theatre and Dance, the collective Red Alert... This unanimity is not a merit to be proud of. The minister himself has acknowledged that the aid for cessation of activity has reached only 40% - I think it is an optimistic estimate - and that the liquidity of the ICO had not arrived. The sad reality is that the number of workers in the cultural sector left behind has been very high. The action of the Minister of Labour, Mrs Díaz, with the sector of the workers of the world of bull has been criticized even by the Ombudsman himself, and these budgets are on the same path. We are told that the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport has an increase of 25.6% including European funds and of 3.7% if we do not include them. European funds, in addition to depending on different variables, are dedicated to projects that are very difficult to start up during 2021. The reality is that basically they are budgets very similar to those of 2018, as if we were not going through the most exceptional situation of our lives. Thus, the game for performing arts is 246 million euros, while in 2018 it was 237 million; in museums and plastic arts, 163 million vs. 160; in archaeology protection, 154 vs. 155; in libraries and archives, 78 vs. 75. These budgets are very similar. The problem is, we're not in 2018. A budget was no longer in place to combat the crisis suffered in the first wave. If these budgets had been designed with the forecast to combat the health and economic crisis that plagues our country, they would have had to be completely redesigned after the impact that the second wave is having. In March, this Government underestimated the economic damage with very well-known and quoted words by Minister Calviño, and unfortunately it is making an even more serious mistake in these budgets right now. [[Applauds]] It is obvious that the disaster that is already suffering almost all sectors of our economy, and particularly the cultural industries, is much greater than this Government is willing to assume. They should have made a completely new budget that would meet the needs of the 700 000 workers in the sector, a budget that would save people from the cultural industries. However, these budgets are insufficient, such as the measures that have been brought to this Congress to date. Management entities have already spent €23 million on social assistance to their partners and are likely to have no more money to continue this work for a long time. The basis of the second royal decree that was brought here - the first one has 750 amendments, I think the opinion of the whole world is contained in that - is an aid of EUR 430 for three months, when the state of the illegal weapon that you adopted here extends beyond that deadline. It won't even reach the end of the alarm state. A few days ago there was a controversy in this Chamber between the PSOE and the PP, which blamed each other for the loss of billions of euros not executed in European funds. For that we have entrusted the rescue of the Spanish economy during the year 2021, to funds in relation to whose management we can account for the ineptitude of all groups so far, not their particular help. In this budget the damage to the sport will not be possible to reverse it, partly because there is no fund to help the monitors or coaches, who are a very important source of work and are very important for the health of the Spaniards. Every euro spent on sport accounts for about three euros that are avoided in health spending, and there is nothing for these people to float out. These budgets enshrine inefficient public spending that configures an official Spain from the back to the real and that will not serve to save all those workers in the world of culture and sport who now need help not to end up in the queues of Caritas or the Food Bank, where many have told us since we have to go and look for their companions. In 2008 the PSOE approved inadequate budgets, and in May of that year we dropped - including myself - an average of 5%. That disaster has made them neither more cautious nor more sensible. We hope that the result will not be even worse, but we do not have great hopes. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u90	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u91	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, arguments ad hominem, that is where we have left the PP in this House today. Before that, only the words of Azaña come to my mind: If you are not going to blush, let me already blush for you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, prudence and indecentness are not bad partners in the parliamentary debate because the obvious cannot be covered by the questionable. It says a classic topic of parliamentary debates on general budgets in this House that the less we talk about the budget, the better they are. We see that you and some others only come to talk about the minister, which is a sign that the culture budget that you have brought to this House, Minister, is good, and we thank you. [[Applauds]] Because the Socialist Party and this progressive government believe in culture, not in words, not in narratives, with facts. The first of these is to regain ministerial rank for our sectors after years reduced to a secretariat of State. Today, here again there is a Minister of Culture defending the budget of Culture, a minister whom you have been able to disrespect if you have wanted to, to ask if you have wanted to, but who is here. How good it would be to Spain if every time it ruled the left we didn't have to reassemble a Ministry of Culture! Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition of the right, the effectiveness, efficiency, the good for culture that that would mean. After the breakdown of the majority of large budget headings made by the minister, it would seem that there is no need to repeat them, but in the face of such a memorial of aggravation and in order for no one to be misled, I will say that this minister has increased the total budget for culture and sport by more than 25%. And when I hear so much criticism, in my opinion somewhat empty, I think of that of Galileo before the Inquisition: yet he moves. 25% more; out of every 100 euros there were, today there are 125 for culture in Spain. This very week the spokesman for the PP said - and today he has reminded us - that we would appreciate whether there is a consensus as to whether or not some of his amendments are adopted. I told you and I repeat, consensus - and in Culture we must be proud of what is there - is not forged by approval or not of amendments in a budget, or not only so, because, for example, I could tell you that an amendment for works in the castle of Sant Ferrán in Figueras is not approved, but that this week has approved 354,000 euros for that very reason by the Council of Ministers and in the budgets this minister who is sitting there has put a sum of 250 000 euros. I say that will not be lacking in consensus. Or you will say that there is no consensus because your amendment of EUR 1 million for a video game programme is not approved, but this minister carries in his budgets EUR 1 million for that video game programme. Not, ladies and gentlemen, that consensus does not go to the weight of approved amendments, much more, it goes far beyond this debate and beyond what we can have. Culture and sport are taken seriously by the Socialist Party and the Government. They prove it with facts. First, the recovery of the ministry; second, a 25% increase in the budget; and third, the inclusion of culture as one of the ten political levers of regeneration of our economy. What does this mean? That we not only value it and want it, but that we put it in its right place, as a mature productive sector of our society because that is so, because it must be treated as one who generates 3% of the gross domestic product and has more than 700,000 workers in his care. Undoubtedly, culture will be one of the key sectors in Spain to get out of this crisis, and to embrace itself, but also to be a key part of the rise of the Spanish economic ecosystem we must help it. That is the responsibility that we believe culture has, which is why our shoulder has always been tied to culture by lifting it up; for that responsibility, the Government makes it one of these key parts of recovery and counts, as one of those levers, with more than 200 million more. And we've also been hearing complaints about it for days, and we know that the ladies in the PP don't like it. Of course, it is normal; the PP did everything in Europe to ensure that this money did not reach Spain. That is why he is now so disgusted that it is reflected in the budgets, because it is an indelible reminder of his betrayal of Spain in Europe, of how they lacked their State responsibility. That is why every time they point out that money, I, perhaps through academic distortion, can only remember Vespasian's anecdote with his son Titus, whom, in the face of the reproach for having taxed the gold that was used chemically in ancient Rome, the emperor gave him a coin and asked him to smell it. The son said to him, "It smells like nothing. And Vespasian answered him: Pecunia non olet - the money does not smell -. And he was right. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you that this money does smell and that is why it hurts you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, because it smells like the triumph of Spain, the triumph of this government and the shame of the People's Party These 200 million Europeans must not be misdeeded or used for a banal opposition. [[Applauds]] I say to you, blessed 200 million, that we will be able to make good use of in our culture and that they will serve with the same effectiveness as the rest of the money that is entered in the budgets, so with it must be counted each and every one of them. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I understand that some people are going to vote no and that, therefore, today they cannot admit that this is a good budget. I will not shave it, everyone in this debate has a role to play and so must be played. Culture today will have a good budget and tomorrow that budget will be there waiting for you to continue working loyally and with consensus for the culture of Spain because it deserves it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u92	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We continue with the debate in section 26, Ministry of Health. For the presentation of the section, the Minister of Health has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear today before the plenary of this House to present to you the section of the draft General Budgets of the State concerning the Ministry of Health. Let me first establish an important premise. So far the government and all the public administrations have faced the pandemic by COVID-19 with the overall budgets for 2018. This has not prevented us from making an unprecedented deployment of public funds, as the situation required us: the COVID funds, the minimum living income, the framework agreement for the acquisition of health supplies. But it is crucial to have new public accounts and the State's General Budgets are more than ever the most powerful lever to confront the pandemic, not only in health, but also in economic and social terms. At a time when redistributive policies will - they are already - be of vital importance, having general budgets commensurate with the circumstances means providing citizens, and especially the most vulnerable citizens, with a fundamental instrument in defending their rights and equal opportunities. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the General Budgets of the State are the best guarantors of equal opportunities in access to public services that help us all to cope with this pandemic, and health is at the core of these public services. No one escapes that the pandemic is a before and after, also in the social configuration itself. Therefore, the need for budgets is not only to deal with the virus by ensuring human and material resources against the disease and to distribute vaccines, but also to support the public authorities so that no one is left unprotected. The pandemic today demands an unequivocal response from all elements of the welfare state: education, protection from unemployment, care for dependents and, obviously, health care. Ladies and gentlemen, public social protection is the ultimate objective of the draft General State Budgets that the Government has brought to this House, and the health section of them responds to that objective in three ways. Firstly, giving a unique and strong financial response to the worst health crisis in the last hundred years, with an appropriate budget. Secondly, giving scope for the so-called European funds - the React-EU and those of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism - to deploy their full effectiveness in protecting the health of citizens, updating the National Health System and driving a shift towards a more robust, flexible and resilient model that is capable of responding adequately to current and future challenges. In this respect, let me tell you that even without these European funds the budget for the Ministry of Health would grow by 40%. The commitment to strengthening, therefore, is clear. Thirdly, by strengthening the role of the Ministry of Health without prejudice or, rather, for the benefit of a decentralized system of competences. These three routes for public health protection are covered by EUR 3421 million of Section 26 of the budget, which corresponds to the Ministry of Health. They amount to EUR 3094 million more, an increase of 946.8 %, and turn the Ministry of Health into one of the fastest growing in percentage terms. Some groups in this House have expressed their scepticism with these accounts, while refusing to acknowledge the need for new public accounts. There have been many others who, aware of the serious moment we are in, have made contributions and amendments, and I would like to thank you from here for your constructive work. Ladies and gentlemen, for a serious moment there are strong, robust, unequivocal budgets that strengthen the cohesion, equity, quality and accessibility of our health system. There are four issues that very well outline the budgetary commitment in the area of health: firstly, the very important support for the National Health System and the Strategic Framework for Primary and Community Care; secondly, the clear impetus for digital health and technological renewal; thirdly, the recovery and extension of rights; and fourthly, the public response to the pandemic. We'll derail these matters one by one. With regard to the National Health System, autonomous health services will receive EUR 1088 million, which is a key injection for the implementation of the Strategic Framework for Primary and Community Care agreed at the time by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. These more than EUR 1 billion are the support of the Spanish Government, in a coordination scenario, for basic needs that must be addressed by the autonomous communities. Secondly, digital health - which has already had a decisive boost in the new organizational chart of the ministry with the creation of the General Secretariat for Digital Health, Information and Innovation of the National Health System - is now given a second decisive boost in the same direction. The Government wants the potentialities of digitisation to be fully deployed in the field of health, in prevention, surveillance, diagnosis, treatment and health management. Our country already occupies a leading European place in electronic health, but it is not enough and not only for the tasks that we still have pending and that the pandemic has revealed, but also because the constant technological evolution opens up new possibilities for application in the health field. With two large figures, ladies and gentlemen, we can all see this extraordinary progress in modernization taking place. First, the National Health System's Health Technology Renewal Plan will receive an injection of €400 million. Secondly, we will make an ambitious bet on digital transformation, health information systems and epidemiological surveillance with EUR 200 million. The third point of attention is in the area of citizenship rights. These budgets are committed to strengthening the National Health System and, in particular, primary care. They put an end to years of cuts, they make very clear progress in terms of technological renewal and digital transformation, but also in a very clear way they return to the path of citizens' rights not only in terms of recovering lost rights, but also - and I say this with great illusion and with great ambition - in terms of extending rights. There was a time when the financial response to the crises only covered austerity policies. The whole of the European Union has learned that the appropriate response to a crisis situation is in the opposite direction, that of expanding the area of citizenship rights and the social protection of a robust welfare State. These budgets, also in health, are the children of this conclusion that Europe is going through in this crisis. Thus, the draft budgets submitted for consideration by this House include measures to reverse these years of rights cuts. First, the National Health System's portfolio of services will be progressively expanded in the area of oral health by EUR 48 million. Secondly, the most vulnerable groups will see the one known as a pharmaceutical copayo removed, which was introduced in 2012. Thus, three collectives, minors with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 33%, who receive a social security benefit per child or minor under permanent family care or foster care for adoption purposes and pensioners with incomes below certain levels - amounting to more than 6 million people - will benefit from universal and fair access to medicines thanks to the fact that this draft budget provides for the corresponding amendment of Law 29/2006 on guarantees and rational use of medicines and health products. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth axis is the public response to the pandemic. Obviously, the commitment to primary and community care, equipment modernisation or digital transformation also make up the response to this pandemic, but I would like to highlight a number of specific measures. Firstly, the acquisition of COVID vaccines will be provided with more than EUR 1 billion, so that all citizens will have access to a safe vaccine through the National Health System. The budget of the State Agency for Medicines and Sanitary Products will be increased by 20 million euros to facilitate the purchase for the strategic reserve. And the State Centre for Public Health, whose establishment we have already committed to at parliamentary level, will have its launch backed by an investment of €5 million, a fundamental effort in public health that we have found to be crucial to increasing the resilience of the system to threats to collective health. Finally, I would like to mention to you another series of budget increases that we can also be proud of, in my view. External current transfers, that is, those that finance actions of autonomous communities, local corporations and non-profit entities, will be increased by more than 2700 %, to almost 793 million euros. We reincorporate the Health Cohesion Fund into the General Budgets of the State, suspended since 2013, which is fundamental to the cohesion of the system. The strengthening of the Cohesion Fund focuses on compensating for the costs of health care provided in the centres, services or reference units, the CSFs, with a budget of 66.86 million, of which 30 million correspond to the Cohesion Fund and 36.86 million to finalist expenditure on cohesion and equity projects of the European Union. The National Institute of Health Management will have an initial budget of 323 million euros, in which the real investments amount to more than 40 million euros, an increase of 294%. Transfers to the National Transplant Organisation will be increased by almost €7 million, an increase of 13.4%. With regard to the National Drug Plan, three out of four Euros of the European funding received will be allocated to the plans and programmes of the Autonomous Communities and Cities and the programmes for the prevention of local corporations. The new additions, for their part, will receive financial support of €7.23 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we are continuing a path of reversal of cuts, recovery of rights and expansion of the service portfolio; millions of fellow citizens, especially the most vulnerable, will notice this when they go to the pharmacy and see that they do not have to pay for their medicines. We make a very important effort in digitization, modernization and technological renewal; we lay a very important foundation for a real digital revolution in the National Health System. We strengthen primary and community care for the benefit of citizens and the entire National Health System; it is not only a state response to strengthen the level of care, which acts as a backbone of the system and which the pandemic has shown us to be essential, but it is a commitment determined by a system that is closer to people and their social realities in order to better care for their health. The response to the pandemic is, in financial terms, broad and strong, including absolute public coverage of the vaccination process. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to announce that in order to report on all the actions relating to the vaccination by COVID-19 I have requested my appearance in a monographic way in the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs in this House, so they will have completed information on this process in the coming weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, on previous occasions I have invited you to join in the fight against the pandemic by COVID-19, today I invite you to join in an ambitious path, that of a strengthened and modernized national health system, a national health system strengthened in the face of adversity, which remains the powerful democratic tool facilitating equity and cohesion in the country, which is a renewed pillar of the welfare state, a welfare state that many had called into question but which the pandemic has shown is essential to protect the most basic area of the rights of all citizens. Those of us who are on this path today will always remember with pride that our responsibility has been exercised in a tangible and lasting benefit to the citizenry. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to be of thanks. I think we are in a very special plenary, the plenary which will somehow mark the economic course of our country, but it is also a good plenary to look back over the course of this year. And we cannot begin on a subject such as health without thanking all the health workers in our country, who have worked far above what was required, who have risked too much, sometimes too much, for the incompetence of this Government, because we are forgotten, but have done so even without the necessary elements of individual protection on the many occasions that our health workers were on the front line. I would also like to thank the researchers, a profession that often goes unnoticed, which is very hidden but has again proved essential. I believe that everything that has happened this year has taught us that investment in research and development is prevention and is not spent; we need to be able to reach broad consensus on research. I am holding your hand, Minister, so that we can continue to make research efforts because this expenditure is transformed into health savings in the future. Finally, I would also like to thank the pharmaceutical industry that in a record time, with an impressive effort, will give us a vaccine solution so that in a few months' time we can look differently at the reality we have today. As far as vaccines are concerned, it seems that the European Medicines Agency can approve one of them at the end of December and at the beginning of January. Yesterday the Council of Ministers approved the purchase or acquisition of 52 700 000 doses and with this I convey to you a hope and a concern. I hope that it will not happen to us with the vaccines the same thing that happened to us with the tests, with the masks and with the personal protective equipment; that millions of purchases were announced but then we saw none, and they forced many autonomous communities to have to buy on their own because of the government's inability to supply them. I hope that on the issue of vaccines we do not see such a scenario. On the other hand, I also convey to you our concern about the lack of knowledge that, to date, we have about how logistics will be organized; it cannot be that a lack of forecast in logistics leads us to some delay in vaccination. And I say this because it seems that they are piloting vaccination around primary care centres and health clinics, and that requires strengthening staffing, providing economic resources and coordinating very well with the autonomous communities that have the competence. I don't know if that's what you're doing right now or if you're going to do it is handing over the hot potato to the autonomous communities, and we're going to have a problem again of uncoordination and, therefore, also of equity. Secondly, I was telling him the other day that since we know that there are some vaccines that are going to require, for example, very high cold conditions, I do not know whether the Government of Spain is already working on the supply of dry ice or whether our country's production capacity is going to be sufficient, hence our concern. It is clear that not only are budgets needed in the area of health, but also that there is a need for leadership and the Government's budgetary leadership line is zero. I believe that this ministry has shown an absolute inability to lead what is happening in our country. We've seen inaction, we've seen uncoordination, we've seen the head hidden and the potato passed hot to the autonomous communities so that everyone would end up doing whatever they wanted. And that has led us to be one of the worst countries in the world to manage the pandemic not only in the first wave - which already had merit - but also in the second. And indeed, I hope that does not happen to us at the time of organizing Christmas because it seems that we are engaged in having seventeen different Christmases. This week the agreement of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System had to be delayed and we will see if it is achieved, but at the moment we have communities like Catalonia announcing a curfew at 1:30 a.m. without that being agreed by the autonomous communities. Discoordination at this time means a risk that we cannot afford because mobility is going to be between all the autonomous communities and, therefore, the decisions that an autonomous community makes will also suffer from them by the rest of the communities. Such leadership requires transparency and, of course, if something we have not seen in this ministry and in the Government as a whole is transparency. 275 resolutions of the Transparency and Good Government Council speak of the opacity with which this Government is working, but the gold medal of opacity is being awarded by the Ministry of Health. [[Applauds]] First, with the committee of experts, on which yesterday - after the Transparency Council forced them to give us the names that we unjustifiably did not have - her spokesman, Mrs Montero, told us that they are men and women specially trained to advise the Government. The one who is specially trained is this Government for lying because, after telling us that they did not give us the names of the committee of experts to protect them, they then had to acknowledge that that committee of experts did not exist. We will now see how they come out of this request made by the Transparency Council because it is difficult to give the names of something that does not exist. On the other hand, opacity has also been seen in contracts, hundreds of millions in contracts without knowing who they are awarded to and in what amount. And of course, we have also seen it with the reports that served as the basis for the ministry to make decisions. There is no reason why the Spaniards, who are the owners of what we manage, should not have the information about how they are managing it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u97	Thank you very much, President. I want to begin my intervention by thanking health professionals who fight the virus again and its consequences, who work against wind and tide to save lives and to help recover the sick. I also want to convey the support and affection of Citizens to those who suffer from the disease or have lost some loved one in these days, days when Spanish people die again for hundreds, something that we have very much in mind. Being fully aware of our responsibility, all the efforts of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group will be aimed at combating the pandemic. Only this has guided the political action of Citizens; we did it yesterday, we do it today and we will continue to do it tomorrow. Mr Illa, you, better than any of your government colleagues, know what the attitude of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has been; you know that we have been in the most difficult times, even when supporting states of alarm I suppose they called you anything less beautiful. You know that we have been making proposals and some have made them their own throughout the pandemic. He knows that we have never joined criticism, sometimes very disrespectful, and have always made constructive criticism. Nor have we joined in the unjust attribution of evils. Perhaps that is why we have reached the only agreement with you on these budgets: the single health card. This is a claim that has been made by citizens since we entered the Congress of Deputies. The leitmotiv of my party is the freedom and equality of the Spaniards, and this unique health card is very important for both when it comes to going to the National Health System; freedom to move and be cared for by healthcare professionals anywhere in Spain; equality to be subject to the same rights regardless of where in Spain they are. The lack of equity and territorial cohesion is one of the main problems of our health system and, by extension, of the equality of all Spaniards. The National Health System is divided into seventeen almost watertight autonomous compartments, but this division not only in management but in almost everything has produced for years a series of dysfunctions that have resulted in barriers to access to services and benefits for citizens. Decentralization was confused with the dismantling of the Ministry of Health - you know it because it has had to rebuild many things throughout this pandemic - and one of the effects of this dismantling has been the uncoordination and problems for those who wanted to be cared for in autonomous communities other than their home. This unique health card will solve this situation and a Spanish citizen will not again appear as a displaced person within Spain. With this card you will know who he is, his medical history and the prescriptions that have been issued to him, but above all a Spaniard will have no bureaucratic problem to go to the doctor in Spain. In addition to the single health card we had made them other proposals that you have laid down, such as the VAT on masks - of all masks - that you have voted against and then apply it only to some. Do you know what this is, Minister? [[Show a document]] This is the letter from the European Commission, with which Minister Montero said in April that they could lower VAT on masks. I could start taking out hemerotec on the things they've said about mask VAT, but I know it's going to give them the same because they trust that the short memory of such a fast society in question today will soon make you forget all this. And it is true that a specific lie is forgotten, but the idea of one being a liar is shuddering; and I do not mean you, I mean other colleagues in the Council of Ministers. We also called for a mental health strategy with a suicide prevention plan to be developed in one of the amendments. We were able to approve it at the reconstruction table and the amendment has been tabled, but, Minister, I would ask you to reflect on this point. Think that in Spain ten people commit suicide every day, think about the economic crisis that is beginning in an absolutely ungodly way; there is no greater cause of unnatural death. Suicide can be prevented, suicide must be reported and survivors, who are the relatives and loved ones of those who have died of suicide, must be helped and cared for by the administrations. Spain cannot look elsewhere, neither taboos nor old conceptions about suicide must prevail, there are many legends and false beliefs. Think about our amendment and, if not, at least do something about it; we will be a better country. In another of the amendments I would like to highlight, we called for the suspension of visas for patients with COPD to be maintained - think about how they face a pandemic such as COVID-19 who have a respiratory disease - and also for those who need oral anticoagulants. In addition, we proposed that the pharmacies be able to perform a COVID test, and I will be very honest with you; at the last appearance you had here you told me that you were expecting a plan from the pharmacies. What I'm asking you to do is be proactive, promote it. We also amend to carry out neonatal screening and the detection of immunodeficiencies, for babies born without an immune system, which it takes them to realize because they are born with four months of defenses that their mothers provide before childbirth. And finally, we ask you to fight pseudoscience. I have told you on many occasions that magical thought, conspiracy and myth are allies of the virus. We have also had that amendment, but I sincerely trust that the communication strategy when the time comes for the vaccine, as we have just spoken, will take over this matter. Minister, you have, however, been wrong. While Esquerra in May voted no to the state of alarm over clearly nationalist issues, Citizens were decisive for it to move forward. Can you imagine what would have happened in May without an existing state of alarm? Esquerra was given equal lives if she could press for her nationalist infles. They put moss over people again. While Citizens proposed, for example, to consider pharmacies at risk, Bildu called a cacerolade against the military that disinfected the streets. Minister, while Citizens raised ideas for the transfer of patients between the ICUs, the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, placed by Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya, said Spain is death and ruin and Catalonia is life and future. Who have you chosen? To Esquerra and Bildu. You guys are wrong. I end by asking for prudence from all citizens and, gentlemen of VOX, since they have asked prudence, the next time they coincide with those of the Orbán party at some event in defense of the family or Western values, remind them that the orgies are with less than six people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government compass, which was never of very high quality, has lost all reliability because the political magnetic fields of the last two years have changed the polarity of the needle, which lost its centre position and was radically turned to the left by breaking with all the moderate references, the prudent and sensible references that were once part of its political project. The best thing to say about this political project today is that it is non-existent and that all the plans are limited to fulfilling the onerous political whims of a light, vain and voracious president, who does not care about Spain or the life of the Spaniards because for him the only important thing is the power, the exercise of power in an autocratic, extreme, abusive way, and truffle of all the vices that Machiavello already pointed out when he wrote for another prince without knowing that Pedro Sánchez, a few years later, would be a doctor in these unsuspecting and disturbing practices. Today, ladies and gentlemen, Pedro Sánchez's compass has neither the prosperity nor the well-being of the Spaniards on the north, because they have dismantled it with a blow of humiliation by Bildu from the east; a blow of insults to the nation - allowed and unanswered - of the independenceists from the west; and by the fiscal hack and the rise of salaries and expenses of the president and of the 22 ministers of the government from the south. No wonder, therefore, that they have lost the cardinal points and even the ordinals of this state budget. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be complicit in these accounts, Mr Illa, simply do not believe them. You don't have any credibility. How are we going to believe a glutton government that has invented and transformed a ministry into three for personal use and enjoyment? How are we going to believe a minister who has been confronted and repudiated by all the Spanish health professionals, who have repudiated him and asked for his cessation and that of his entire team? Some professionals, who in number 86 000, have become infected by their abandonment, by their malicious management behind whose applause they hid, now, when the time comes for the truth, when the time comes for the budget, do not materialise neither the recognition nor the support to those professionals of Spanish society for their titanic task, for their tiredness and even for their heroism. [[Applauds]] They reject, ladies and gentlemen, their pay improvement, their extra pay, the improvement of their working conditions, the replacement rate, the consideration of COVID as a professional disease, forgotten, forgotten and forgotten, and above all they punish them with the Royal Decree-Law 29/2020, of doctors and RIMs, which represents a step backwards in the training of health care workers and an attack on the safety of patients. By the way, patients whose associations are also against you, Minister. But it is that you have even been allowed from your team sexist comments that put you in a situation of absolute loneliness with regard to Spanish health. Mr Illa, how are we going to believe you?, how are we going to believe a minister who invented the committee of experts who descaled the Spaniards, who lacks the minutes of the meetings of that ghost committee and who shows that the decisions were not epidemiological but were sectarian, were political, were capricious and were prevaricious, Minister? A fiction adopted by an inexperienced, profane and incompetent; yes, you, Mr.Illa, have tried to harm on purpose some autonomous communities of the country to which you promised loyalty for your conscience and honor. Of course we did; we beat the virus, we got stronger; and now, in November, with more than 300 dead a day, 442 yesterday, we have had to count the same deaths as in March, 9200 dead, more than 15,000 since the end of the summer. Ladies and gentlemen, how are we going to believe you if you have been lying for nine months about the number of dead Spaniards; how are we going to believe you if on 6 September you said in this House that half of Spain would be vaccinated by mid-December, last month you said that in January and a few days ago that in spring. What a lack of rigour, Minister! How are we going to believe it if Spain does not yet have a strategic reserve of sanitary equipment; if it has resigned half of its equipment and the remaining ones have been appointed illegally; if it asked people not to wear masks, if it refused to lower VAT, by the way, lower VAT to 0% of all the masks in this country, Minister, also of hygiene and FFP2. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, how will we believe you if you have hives to publish your contracts? You believe that this is a chiringuito, but this is the Spanish state, Mr Illa, and you have no doubt that each and every one of these contracts will be known to the Spanish public. How will we believe if you have had nine months to pass a useful regulation and still today we are in the state of permanent alarm and without making PCR at airports. How are we going to believe that with an exceptional budget which Brussels does not comply with only one of the agreements of the Commission for Reconstruction, if it has not budgeted a single euro for the necessary reforms of the National Health System. Nothing in professional planning, nothing in socio-health coordination, nothing in funding model, nothing in waiting lists, nothing in professional registration, nothing in palliative care; nothing, Minister, about the importance of the Spanish public health system. Your Honor, you're a constant fake news, you're a fake minister, you're a black hole, you're an expert in obscurantism and lies. You are responsible for the worst management, the most opaque, the most profane and disturbing, the most insolvent, incapable and failed of our recent health history. You've always been late and the results know them all, a real disaster. You, Minister, do not deserve an amendment to the whole, you deserve an eardrop of each and every Spanish citizen. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mrs Medel Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u101	Good afternoon. Of course, the People's Party is angry and furious. What a speech! The Confederal Group of the United Nations We can say the following: firstly, it is positive and it is very good that there is a significant increase in the budgets of the Ministry of Health, 39% if funds from the European Union are excluded and 946 % if those funds are taken into account. The European Union's funds for health care will go mainly to the Strategic Primary Care Plan, 1089 million, and this is something we are really waiting for all of us; for the acquisition of vaccines against COVID, 1011 million; for the renewal of health technologies, 400 million; for vertebrate projects of the National Health System, 225 million; for departures in oral health, 49 million; for cohesion and equity, 37 million; for health information, 8 million; for early care services, 3 million; for cancer control, 3 million; for chronic and disabled people, 2 million, etc. The allocation of these budget items to the Ministry of Health will allow for their planning, either directly or through the inter-territorial council. Some associations defending public health have stressed that it is very good that some funds have a finalist character, which they have been demanding for a long time. [[The lady]] In short, we believe that these budgets represent an extraordinary advance on the above because they serve to strengthen our National Health System, which is very weakened due to the policies of cuts of the People's Party and privatizations. In part they are a form of the agreements between the Socialist Party and the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can with regard to getting a strong public health bet. Social services are great compensaters of inequality, which does not seem to understand the right. All this offsetting inequality doesn't make it clear. It is clear that greater funding would be better, inter alia, because we are starting from an irresponsible underfunding situation. The policies of the People's Party have had harmful consequences for the majority of the population and have been worse for the most vulnerable, but that is how the People's Party understands its patriotism: punishing the majority of people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Medel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u103	Thank you very much. With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the whole of the draft general budget tabled by VOX is not tabled by our party, but by the Government, which has tabled 75 000 amendments - 75 000 amendments, ladies and gentlemen - one for each person killed in the epidemic. [[Applauds]] And all but VOX groups are responsible for making this project unserviceable because the Reconstruction Commission refused to carry out the relevant analyses to see what mistakes were made from March to June. That is why we told them that the conclusions of the Commission for Reconstruction were a fraud, but they have persisted in the diagnostic error and these budgets have been made affirming in a childish or tortuous way that the epidemic was not going to continue. And how was that possible when it was known that there had been second alone in other countries? How? It seems that the General Budgets of the State had been prepared in June - hence its structural size -, with the desire, once again infantiloid, that no second or third waves - magical thought - would arrive, but the daily dead of today remind us that the epidemic continues and, ladies and gentlemen, will continue. A budget is nothing more or less than a treatment plan. If the diagnosis is wrong, we have no choice but to make a full amendment because the partial amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are palliative treatment, and no palliative treatment, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, can correct a misdiagnosis and the initial error. [[Applauds]] But it's not just ignorance, it's that the doctor in charge of the patient, Mr. Illa, that is, the government, has left the consultation. The Government has an obligation, as stated in the draft budgets, to - abro quotes - manage the current social and health emergency caused by COVID-19. Well, says the COVID-19, because they're wrong too. I close quotes. But it also has it by the powers granted to it by Royal Decree 21/2020. And the government has prepared this structural colossal despite the fact that the European funds, which are the lion's share of these health budgets, the main amount, are conditioned - I quote textually - to the development of contingency plans to prevent and address possible situations of resurgence. Well, we doubt that the money will come, because nowhere in the draft budgets are any plans to combat the epidemic described or provided for economically. If we go to the Spanish Agency for Medicines and Sanitary Products, where is there a plan to implement clinical trials for COVID? Is it not scandalous that the only strategic drugs mentioned are those dedicated to intubation - but what is this!-, forgetting everyone else? They say that primary care will receive EUR 1 billion, as they say it will be received to buy vaccines, but to meet the EU's objectives it should have been allocated at least 40% for the purchase of antigenic tests to enhance and protect the suffering nurses and the tracing of patients and contacts. The hospitals are also forgotten. The hospitals, ladies and gentlemen, have been the spearhead to combat this epidemic. [[Applauds]] And on top of that, they leave the healthcare professionals unprotected. They allocate a small amount of 97 million to protect them, they say, to them and their beneficiaries. And what is this? Only on masks and only the doctors and nurses of the National Health System would spend in a year 110 million, and that using surgical masks. Doesn't it embarrass you, Minister, that you have not allocated a budget line to reward healthcare professionals economically? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? [[Applauds]] It is also surprising that the Institute of Health Management does not have a consignment for the centralized purchase of masks or diagnostic tests, gels or protective equipment, when the centralized acquisition of medicines and health products is one of its functions, because in this situation of health crisis the Government has the central and coordinating role. What happens is that you want to drain the lump, and while the government does nothing, the Spaniards have spent 200 million euros a month on masks. A simple calculation reveals that they are unprotected. In fact, if the state financed half the price, we would need €53 billion of state spending on masks. Do you think it is welcome that the word PCR is not mentioned and only twice the diagnostic tests are mentioned? For I say to you that we should have given at least $2 billion in diagnostic tests in the budgets of the year 2021 if the epidemic remains the same, and that is to calculate that antigenic tests will partly replace PCRs. What kind of oblivion is it? But the Government has not bothered to do such calculations because the Government does not know how to come to the truth; when it stumbles upon it by chance, it does not recognize it, and when it is mistaken and recognizes it, it hides it so that the Spanish do not know it. Therefore, these budgets do not take into account the fact that we are in the midst of an epidemic that needs government leadership and that should have dealt with the most important thing: prevention, diagnosis and possible treatment. It should have all been analyzed, collected, quantified, awarded to the agents. Failure to do so in this epidemic situation is irresponsible, it is fraudulent, it must be reprimanded by all the Spaniards, and of course it deserves the amendment to the whole of our group. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prieto Nieto.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u105	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by reminding the victims of COVID and their families and friends, and I also do not want to forget the professionals, the workers and the workers of all the essential services that, especially in these months, are doing their best to take care of us and save us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, after the years of government of the People's Party, we found a health system that has been seen in the seams, a public health without adequate and sufficient resources. Mr. Echaniz, the government has not lost the north, it has GPS in perfect condition. Even if you keep talking about compasses, what it seems is that it is anchored in the past. Since 2012, public health, which during these months has proved to be one of the most important public services for citizens, has suffered major cuts from Rajoy's governments, and not only from the crisis, but especially from ideology. Now this government led by Pedro Sánchez presents us with budgets that allow us to reverse this trend and to replenish our National Health System with the necessary resources to remain a global benchmark. Since 2012 the People's Party has come to the government, we have placed ourselves in the queue of public investment in health across Europe, 5.9% of GDP in 2017. You lowered health spending between 2011 and 2012 by 40%. To this cut adds the end of universality and co-payments, which are a tax on disease. Yes, a tax on the disease, which you introduced in the midst of a devastating crisis and which led many people not to be able to take their medicines due to lack of financial resources, medicines that were prescribed by doctors and necessary for the health of patients. Finally, with these budgets we are moving forward towards their elimination. The Socialist Party had to come back to the government in order to regain the right to universal public health in our country and put an end to the unjust Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the cause of your refusal to these budgets is not in the figures, it is in its objectives: a national system of public health, of excellence, equitable, universal and free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis caused by COVID has no precedents and these budgets are the best way to combat it, but, do not be fooled, they are not just budgets to overcome the current situation, they recover health rights curtailed in previous legislatures, they also contain the present and future bet by public health, they contain the most entrenched socialist orientation and tradition, which seeks a strong welfare state to guarantee equality of opportunity and social and territorial equity, and they contain the principles and criteria set out in the 1986 General Health Act, promoted and developed by our admired and anorated Minister Ernest Lluch. [[Applauds]] I have already told you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, that it is not the figures that bother you, because we are faced with budgets that, together with European funds, become historical, because this is the greatest allocation in history in public health policies, from EUR 327 million to more than EUR 3400 million. They multiply by ten the strength of the Ministry of Health. I will give you three examples: EUR 1 billion for vaccines, oral health in the basic portfolio or, as I pointed out earlier, ending the co-payments. This guarantees equal opportunities for all and for all. These budgets also include provisions to implement commitments from the Reconstruction Commission, as well as, for example, 1088 million to enhance primary care, 5 million for the establishment of the State Public Health Centre, or 400 million for the Health Technology Renewal Plan. And a special mention for the inclusion of the Health Cohesion Fund. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? In 2013, they removed it from the budgets, left it with minimal resources generating debt to the autonomous communities and hindering the integration and cohesion of the system. We are talking about budgets that will enable the development of the Digital Strategy of the National Health System, which will boost digital health and the electronic interoperability of health information. This will allow, for example, the strengthening of the National Epidemiological Monitoring Technology Network. Are we not all in agreement that these budgets are necessary? This Government has listened to and negotiated with broad-sightedness; do not seek excuses to vote but do not. Furthermore, I would remind you that the conclusions of the Reconstruction Committee were voted in favour of all the groups in this House, with the exception of the extreme right, which did not work in that Commission - and neither did they work on these budgets - and with the exception of Mr Rego, of the BNG, who voted no to those conclusions. [[applause]] Mr Rego, as a Galician I am deeply disappointed to see the Galego Nationalist Block looking for any excuse to justify its no to these objectively good budgets for our land, which even include the AP-9, which is so necessary for Galicia. However, [[continue your intervention in Galician]] Mr Sayas, no mention of the budget or its amendments. The same as the PP and Mr. Echaniz's brush speech. What I think is that neither one of us has studied anything. And VOX, of course, not an amendment. Learn something, Mr Sayas, in the plenary or in the Commission, from Mr Díaz de Ciudadanos, because in the background and in the forms one can disagree, but leave the hatred at the door. Mr. Echaniz, I will tell you that insult is the last resort of incompetence. [[Applauds]] These are the budgets our country needs. That is why I ask for all the support of your ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs Prieto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the vote on the amendments up to and including section 27, with regard to the Commission's opinion on the draft State General Budgets Act for 2021, I would like to announce that the following amendments have been adopted: Section 18, Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, Amendments 3257, 3258 and 3261; and Section 19, Ministry of Labour and Social Economy, Amendments 3266 and 3268. In addition, compromise amendments 6 to 39 have been adopted. The result of all the votes for these amendments will be published on the website of this House, in accordance with the usual procedure, and will be appended to the minutes of this sitting. - Draft Law on General Budgets of the State for the Year 2021. [[CONTINUATION]] [[File number 121/000035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u108	We continue with the budget debate, in this case section 27, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. For the section presentation, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u109	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House today, as my fellow government officials have already done in recent days, to defend section 27 of the State General Budgets Bill for 2021. I am not going to go too far, since the detail of this section has already been presented by the Secretaries of State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, but I am going to spend a little time explaining the macroeconomic picture underlying and accompanying the draft General Budgets of the State, and then briefly reviewing the most important elements of the Ministry's budget. With regard to the macroeconomic picture, as I have already had occasion to say in this same forum on other occasions, we are at a time marked by the intense uncertainty, both in Spain and in Europe and the rest of the world, and therefore the macroeconomic picture accompanying the draft budget contains prudent forecasts, which contemplate the possible downward risks associated with a more negative evolution of the pandemic, a possible delay in the availability of the vaccine, an increase in geopolitical and commercial tensions, the possibility of a structural impact on the productive fabric or the employment that slows the recovery, and the possible difficulties in implementing European funds in an agile and complete manner. However, since the publication of our forecasts in early October, new information has become known. There have been vaccine-related announcements indicating that the vaccine could be available for supply to the population since the beginning of January; there have also been encouraging developments in relation to geopolitical and commercial tensions; the third quarter of gross domestic product and the labour force survey, which was a positive surprise for all analysts, public and private, national and international. Indeed, with regard to the fourth quarter's advanced indicators, in which the second wave arrived in Spain before other European countries and intensified from mid-October, leading to the imposition of additional containment measures in some autonomous communities, what we see is that the incidence of the pandemic in recent weeks seems to have returned - let alone with all caution - to a declining path that is being accompanied by a progressive lifting of some of these local restrictions. However, the signals offered by the high-frequency indicators that we follow daily on this fourth quarter can be considered mixed, with some indicators more affected by the partial restrictions that have been imposed, such as expenditure indicators, in the face of a positive evolution of labour indicators, such as the social security affiliation and registered unemployment data that we have seen this morning. In fact, the social security affiliation data for the month of November, which we have seen this morning, show an increase in the employment of more than 100 000 people in deseasonalized, calendar-corrected terms, which double the rate of job creation of 50 000 jobs created in October, also in deseasonalized terms; a positive tone that remains at the start of this month of December. In short, of the million jobs lost between March and April, some 650 000, about two thirds have already been recovered, and we have recovered the 19 million members. Self-employed workers also outperform pre-pandemic membership and this good evolution of affiliations is compounded by the behaviour of the temporary employment regulation files, the ERTEs, which still have around 750 000 workers, a figure which remains fairly stable despite the flow of inputs and outputs resulting from the response of the various autonomous communities to the outbreak of the pandemic. Since mid-November, we have seen net outflows from these ERTs of some 10,000 workers on average per day. It is early to have a close view of the quarter, because there is still almost a month ahead and uncertainty remains very high, but, according to the information available, the economic impact of this second wave is well below that of March and April, which is good news for all. Thus, our central scenario foresees that a positive evolution will be maintained in this fourth quarter and that the recovery initiated in the third quarter will continue, taking into account, as I say, all the cautions and all the necessary preventions in this situation of uncertainty that explains the disparity of forecasts of the various agencies. All this makes the most negative scenarios of forecasting seem to be moving away - always with all prudence - and, however, our forecast points out that, following an intense fall in activity in 2020, next year 2021 we will experience a very intense recovery, around 7%, so that the land lost in this exercise would begin to recover. This inertial growth planned for 2021 could be increased by two and three percentage points thanks to the full implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan through public investments mobilized by European funds which, as you know, are already reflected in the draft budgets. So, beyond the short-term impact, the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan will allow us to increase the potential growth of our economy by more than 2%, allow us to create around 800 000 jobs and mobilise a private investment of around EUR 500 billion. This forecast of inertial growth will be underpinned by an intense reactivation of national demand, driven by the expansion of all components; private consumption, thanks to the protection of household disposable income and the revitalization of employment; private investment, also particularly intense in the field of equipment goods; we also foresee the recovery of the external sector and an improvement of the labour market. This macroeconomic development will allow us to reduce the government deficit to 7.7% by 2021 and also to start the path of reducing the government debt ratio on gross domestic product. In this respect, I would like to point out that the good management of the treasury, together with the good development of the financial markets, has allowed us to reduce by EUR 20 billion the extraordinary emissions during 2020 from the pandemic we had calculated in the spring; that is, that, compared to the 130 billion we expected at the time, it will finally be 110 billion of public debt that we will issue in order to be able to finance the extraordinary response that Spanish society as a whole is giving to protect the productive fabric, jobs and incomes of families. For next year, the financing needs of the Kingdom of Spain's Treasury will also be around EUR 110 billion, with a financial burden of around EUR 30 billion. This is an extremely prudent estimate. One of the main innovations we anticipate for 2021 in this field is the issue of between EUR 5000 and EUR 10 billion in green bonds, learning from the first success experience carried out by the Official Credit Institute in 2019 and 2020. With regard to the emissions strategy, the same priorities will be maintained in recent years, we will continue to reduce our financing costs in order to reduce the average cost of outstanding debt, which is at 1.85 % historical minimums, and to continue, in parallel, to extend the average life of the portfolio, which has also reached a historical maximum of 7.82 years. With this last I introduce the reference to the budget for 2021 of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. This section 27 together amounts to EUR 5122 million, almost three times the 2018 extended budget, which is in force. This amount includes €3650 million from the Next Generation EU recovery mechanisms. The main objectives pursued by the budget allocations in section 27 are essentially: to encourage the digitisation of the productive fabric of our society, by deploying the Digital Spain Agenda 2025 presented on 23 July, and to maintain Spain's participation in multilateral financial institutions. Within the competence of the Ministry's undersecretariat and internal management, it is worth mentioning the digital job project, which will allow us to replace computer equipment and reach 65% of the workforce by 2021 and 100% of the workforce by 2022. I turn to the details of the Secretariat of State for Economy and Enterprise Support, which will have 849 million euros, directed in a majority way, as I pointed out a moment ago, to the contributions of Spain to the multilateral financial institutions, in order to maintain and strengthen our capacity to influence global economic governance. It also includes an item related to the payment of contributions to alleviate Greece's debt burden, in compliance with our commitments to our partners in the euro area. The bulk of the ministry's budget is part of our country's digitalization and connectivity policies, with a six-fold increase in current allocations in this area. As all your ladies and gentlemen know, our country's digitalisation roadmap is set out in that Digital Spain Agenda 2025, to which we will allocate €3750 million in 2021. Firstly, the Secretariat of State for Digitisation and Artificial Intelligence will have 3069 million euros, an unprecedented figure that will multiply by almost ten its current allocation; it will be financed mostly by European funds, and we will allocate these resources to the different axes of action that have been detailed by the Secretary of State at her appearance. Let me simply point out the more than EUR 1 billion for the promotion of digital skills, through key programmes such as those supporting basic digital skills for digital citizenship, especially for women and girls, a key element for closing the gender gap; EUR 331 million for training in our SMEs; EUR 150 million for the re-training of unemployed workers, with specific measures for each of the vulnerable groups; the Education in Digital programme, to equip the educational system with devices, digital resources; the adaptation of teachers' digital skills, and actions to apply artificial intelligence to personalized education; and the Uni-Digital programme, which will allocate EUR 26 million to promote progress and digitalisation in higher education, in university education. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has made it clear to us that the hybrid model of digital and face-to-face education has arrived to stay, and we must ensure that this change does not lead to discrimination against certain groups or to a reduction in the possibilities of developing our educational system, which is undoubtedly one of the greatest strengths of our welfare state. [[The lady]] Another area of action of this State Secretariat is aimed at boosting entrepreneurship and digitisation of the business fabric, with 219 million from the SME Digitalisation Drive Plan; EUR 154 million in entrepreneurship, e.g. for the creation of the new national entrepreneurship office, to which the EUR 315 million must be added to promote digitalisation tractor projects in key sectors such as agri-food, digital health, smart tourism, sustainable mobility and e-commerce. This Secretariat of State will also invest EUR 370 million through the General Secretariat of Digital Administration in the digital transformation of public administrations; we plan to provide EUR 213 million for the drive of cybersecurity, and finally we will allocate EUR 330 million to launch the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, which has been presented by the President of the Government this morning - we have brought copies to distribute to your ladies and gentlemen, I hope they will share them soon -. This is undoubtedly one of the most important, strategic and vertebral projects for the digitization of our country and to direct this whole process of transformation, putting people at the centre, guaranteeing the protection of our individual and collective rights and our constitutional values. In this regard, until 20 December, we have opened the public hearing on a draft digital rights charter so that our country will be at the forefront of the debate that is taking place at European and global level in this important area. Finally, the State Secretariat for Telecommunications and Digital Infrastructure will also see its budget multiplied by three. The actions of this Secretariat of State can be summarized in three key lines of action. Firstly, the plan for the connectivity of individuals, enterprises and territories, which will have EUR 583 million in the financial year 2021, with the aim of ensuring that 100 per cent of the Spanish population has digital connectivity of 100 megabytes per second in 2025, thus contributing to progress in social and territorial cohesion. None of your ladies and gentlemen misses the importance of digital connectivity for the territorial vertebration of the entire Spanish population and I know that it is a matter very close to many of your ladies and gentlemen, who are aware of the importance of this collective investment in the territory. Secondly, the impetus for the deployment of the 5G, which, with EUR 300 million of the budget in 2021, will focus on promoting the deployment of this technology where private operators take longer to arrive; developing actions in the field of road and rail corridors, with particular attention to the secondary roads, which are often the most neglected by the European Union, and promoting the use of the 5G of the sectoral digitisation tractor projects that I have mentioned. Yesterday the Council of Ministers approved precisely the two plans - connectivity and deployment of the 5G - that will be key to arbitrating and articulating public and private investment in these two areas. In fact, with the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy presented this morning and the connectivity and 5G plans presented yesterday, we are laying the foundations for three of the main axes of the Digital Spain Strategy 2025 and, thereby, also covering an important part of the digital chapter of our country's Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The third and final line of action of the Secretariat of State for Telecommunications is to promote the value of our country as a European platform for business, investment and work in the audiovisual and video game fields, with a budget allocation of 109 million euros for 2021. Alongside these investment programmes, these State secretariats will, of course, promote all the structural reforms that will enable us to address this process of transformation and resilience in our country. In the case of telecommunications, mention should be made of the telecommunications bills and the audiovisual bill, which are precisely at the stage of public hearing and which I hope we can bring here in the near future. President, I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years ago this House witnessed the last debate of this nature. Nobody escapes that the situation we are moving into today has absolutely nothing to do with the May 2018 situation. Only this fact and the year that we have been doing should be sufficient for us all to be aware of our responsibility and to guarantee the adoption of the General Budgets of the State which are essential. They are essential budgets for Spain, because they involve the mobilization of 39 billion euros of public investments, mostly financed by European funds, which offer us a historic opportunity to face transformations that we all recognize, which the vast majority of the Spanish population considers urgent and inescapable and which we now have the opportunity to launch in record time, supporting us for this in public-private collaboration. They are also essential budgets for our country because they help to give an image of credibility and trust to the rest of the world, that is, in themselves they are a value for this country and help us to continue to drive the economy and, with it, to create jobs. These budgets are ambitious, they are expansive, they are social and they are transformative of reality. They are committed to the priority areas in which our country must stand as a global vanguard in order to win the future for our young people. These are budgets whose priorities are shared by the vast majority of the Spanish population and should therefore be supported by all parties in this House. We have a shared responsibility. That is why I urge all of you to take it by voting in favour of the General Budgets of the State for 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u110	Thank you so much. In defence of amendments, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u111	I support the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, in particular those of Foro Asturias, Nueva Canarias and Coalition Canaria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u112	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u113	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, minister. You know, Mrs. Calviño, I have a lot of personal and professional appreciation for you. That is why I stand in your place and I understand that for you it has to be hard to defend these budgets, budgets that look suspiciously from Europe and that are going to be approved with the worst possible partners, and you know it. Minister, you have been Director-General for Budgets in Brussels and you know what it is to do things right. Unfortunately, his orthodoxy and pulcrity are not in these accounts; his government has not done things right, and knows it. You yourself have had to see how various agencies throw down their predictions for over-optimism, how different national and international supervisors have worsened their expectations regarding Spain, and that is no dish of good taste for anyone, less for someone of their professional level. Minister, the reality is that these accounts are born obsolete, they are based on outdated macroeconomic data, they have unrealistic revenues, they are described as overly optimistic by other bodies, and they are worth billions of European aid that has not even been approved today. You know that, too. This is the worst crisis in Spain. We needed national salvation budgets, which would have laid the foundations for Spain's recovery and which would have had to be a joint and comprehensive response, a state response to the worst crisis we recall. It is true that the Spanish need good news, yes, it is true, but it is also true that we need a realistic response to this crisis, a country response. And these accounts are neither realistic nor a country response, and you know it. You know that things have not been done right - and they have been done wrong deliberately - that the government to which you belong has passed the roll to all the contributions of the opposition, which has prevented the debate of good ideas for all the Spaniards. You, your Government, have laid down the moderate, focused ideas necessary for our economy and our recovery only because they were proposed by the opposition, in my case only because they were proposed by Citizens. His Government had been claiming for months that what was important in budgetary matters was what and not with whom. We have been responsible, we have worked tirelessly to offer you an alternative and it turns out that you yourself have not applied your doctrine. You have chosen and cared more about who than what, and you know it, minister. Citizens were an alternative to their partners in Esquerra and Bildu, who talk about massively raising taxes to cover their mismanagement; their partners, those who talk about harmonising taxes on the rise as a political weapon, rather than looking at Europe and proposing a sensible harmonisation according to our European partners; their partners, those who have preferred to put in this debate the suppression of the Spanish as a vehicle language before talking about a new country model. No wonder, they themselves have said from this rostrum that they care a little about the governability of Spain. Minister, you have spoken about the unemployment data known today - yes, more affiliates, but you have forgotten to say that there are also more unemployed -, new employment data reflecting 25,269 more unemployed in November, its highest increase since 2012. We ended November with almost 4 million unemployed, 20% more than last year. We ended up again in November with 750 000 people in the ERTE mechanism. You know that the situation is critical - you know it - companies and self-employed people no longer think whether or not they close, but when they will. According to Credit and Guarantee this pandemic will cause 18% of the Spanish business fabric to be considered zombie at the end of 2020. Minister, your government is not leaving anyone behind. [[Show a chart]] It's hard to leave anyone behind when we're last. We are the first in the largest collapse in the developed world, with a fall of 11.63 %, according to the OECD, in our gross domestic product by 2020. Faced with this situation, Citizens tabled amendments to approve a German plan with direct aid to companies, a specific rescue plan for hospitality, an extension plan for ERTs; amendments calling for the use of big data to be able to improve our active employment policies; amendments on training in digital skills to convert those employees who are no longer doing so because they have lost their jobs; amendments for the digitisation of the state and for broadband infrastructures that boost Spain's economic development also in rural areas. And you know what? You know what, minister? That your government, the PSOE and its coalition partners, Podemos, have voted no. Honestly - believe me, Mrs Calvin -, I regret that these are going to be your budgets. You know well that we have reached out, because we know, as you have rightly repeated in that rostrum, that these budgets are essential, but I disagree in one thing, I disagree in that you have said that they are the budgets that most Spaniards need. No, Mrs. Calvino. We've reached out, but there's been no way. You and only you have a responsibility to have chosen radicality. Unfortunately, minister, in this pulse you have won Churches this time and you have lost, and with you I have lost too, we have lost all, you have lost all the Spaniards, so I only have to end up saying that I accompany us in the feeling. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u115	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what would be my concern would be to defend my amendments in this section, like the rest of the speakers, and what happens is that, as we have already voted, I do not know if it makes much sense for me now to come and defend the amendments. However, I will take the turn to reflect on some issues that we consider important. Firstly, of course, as responsible for the whole economic area, I would like to congratulate you on having budgets. For the first time this Government will have budgets that it will be able to implement over a whole budget year. This is a challenge and an opportunity, and the opposition parties, even those who have agreed on budgets with you, will be demanding in the implementation of these budgets, which, I am going to tell you, we understand that it will not be easy, because a part, especially the revenue part, will be conditioned on the fact that the recovery forecasts resulting from the pandemic can be met. Having said that, we had tabled a number of amendments to correct some aspects that we felt were important, especially with regard to economic recovery, which have not been successful, and I urge you to reflect. These budgets are going to go to the Senate and are going to change and, therefore, there is an opportunity for the government to come up with some self-amendment to solve some of the problems that are relevant from our perspective and have not been solved so far. I wanted to emphasize only two issues. There has been a change in corporate tax in respect of the existing dividend subsidy, which is reduced to 95 %. We have not amended it and we believe that taking advantage of the possibility of 5% would be reasonable. We have tabled an amendment to avoid situations that will occur if this is not resolved in the remaining process of these budgets until they enter the Senate, which is the cascade effect that this rule is going to produce to the extent that, as it is regulated, this 5% is accumulating within a holding company or within a group of participating companies as dividends are being distributed downwards. This situation implies that the same profits, when they reach the matrix, if there are three companies interposed in the holding, will pay an amount, and if there are five companies interposed, they will pay a higher amount, because it is accumulating. We understand that this is not efficient from any point of view and will condition not only the distribution of dividends in the short term, but the very business structures or of each of the holding companies, which has no justification whatsoever. From the point of view of fiscal justice - we agree that it is taxed; we understand that perhaps this would not be the time, but we do not discuss it -, we discuss this cascade effect and, as responsible for this economic area, minister, I ask you to reconsider, to evaluate it. We've passed it on to the Ministry of Finance, which I understand is studying it. It would be a modification for everyone's benefit. It would have an impact on collection, which would be very little, but otherwise the impact on business organization would be much worse. There is also an amendment which was voted on yesterday and which did not come forward by five votes - which gives one a little pain - relating simply to the adjustment of the diesel vehicle registration tax. The budget, for which we understand each other, made no contribution in this respect and, therefore, it is not that taxation was raised, but there has been a change in European legislation as regards the qualification of certain vehicles which, if the current structure of the tax is not corrected, will cause some vehicles, with the same emissions, to tax up to 20% more and lose the bonus. This, for the automotive industry sector at the moment, with the fall in sales - even if one might think it is a short-term situation - is not absolutable, even if one had to assume this increase, which I do not think, should not occur at the moment, but within a few months, once the economic recovery has been consolidated. Therefore, I would also like you to bear that in mind. And no longer so much for the purposes of these budgets, in which I understand it will be more difficult, we had tabled amendments that we would like to work together with your ministry, even if they affect the Treasury, because they amend the IRPF and the corporation tax. They are those that are aimed at facilitating the incorporation of the talent that is abroad to come to reside in the Spanish State. Let us hope that we can do this over the next few days or weeks. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel Accensi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u117	Good afternoon, Madam President. Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, for being here today. Of the few statements made by the Socialist Party these days, there is one that I will share: this is an extraordinary budget. We all share it. I will give you a synthesis of extraordinary and memorable phenomena that have occurred here over the last two days to see how worthwhile it was to wait for these budgets. In the first place, Unidad Podemos has become the parliamentary monarchy, because it voted in favour of the Royal House section. Congratulations, really, it was a time to come and vote in favor of the Royal House. Secondly, communism has renounced communism, because it turns out that they are no longer communists. There is a secretary general of the Communist Party here, there is a communist minister here - it must be consumerist or non-consumerist, because it is consumer minister - but they have renounced directly to recognize that they are communists, also extraordinary phenomenon. Thirdly, the Republican Left federalism has now become a centralist option, precisely because they say that there can be no tax modulation in the territories. Look at how many strange phenomena have occurred in the last two days in these cameras. Then there has been another curious phenomenon, in this case starring VOX, which is extra-parliamentary parliamentaryism. You are more and more like a public work in Spain, where there are 20 people watching and 2 working. When I read in your electoral programme that you were in favour of the zero base budget, I did not know that it was to table zero amendments. When are you going to work? This is the second time they have done so, the second time, because they have already done so in the Reconstruction Commission. But explain this to me by intellectual curiosity: if you consider the budget debate to be useless, why do you now come to vote on other people's amendments? Either it's all useless or it's all useless. What's useless? If you then go up to the rostrum, please explain to me if it really is useless to work, because the others are working. I would really ask you to clarify this intellectually, because you will do it again and absenteeism is not really a political solution. [[Applauds]] Forgive me, but I had to say it, because phenomena are happening, as I say, extraordinary. This is the three-way budget. First of all, it is the budget of infamy. I have heard a statement here, Madam Vice-President, really immoral, which also reminded the spokesman for Citizens: The important thing is what not the one with whom. The important thing is also the one with whom, of course. These days I've been listening to a historical loop between the year 34 and the year 36. Have you all forgotten about the year 78? I've been here listening to a historical loop between avocado and watermelon, between brown fruit on the outside and green fruit on the inside and green fruit on the outside and red fruit on the inside. When are we gonna get through that? Has anyone forgotten that there is a spirit that is the spirit of the Transition? Has anyone forgotten about 78? Today I've heard some UN phrases We can... there's Mrs. Velarde. He's talking to you about the grandson of an anarchist shot by the National Front, and I'm a liberal and I'm not going to give up being a liberal. By the way, the liberals were also exiled in Francoism. [[Applauds]] Therefore, historical lessons none, neither from faith nor from reason, none, because what is being heard here is burying the spirit of Transition and resurrecting the war of cemeteries, and it is really absurd. And that from Marine Elorza, who surprised me with all the transparency we discovered here today that you knew in your debate. But let's keep going. Look, it's the budget of infamy because they've closed it with Bildu, they've closed it with Bildu. My colleague Echaniz said very well that at a certain moment the compass of the Socialist Party moved; it moved and has no longer returned, it has become completely unnoticed. It's not in this direction. I wish he were on the sharp left, at least today we would know that the course is left; neither is it on the axis of centrality, but it is that the axis is up there. By the way, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do you know that an hour and a half ago Bildu's spokesman in Navarre said that they were going to claim the Basque confederal republic by annexing Navarre? Do you know that? You know that? Don't put your hands on Navarre! And it's said by an Aragonese! Here we have naval deputies and we will be with you all, don't worry. Don't do it, because it's certainly an infamy. [[Applauds]] This is the budget for disability. It was also said by the spokesman for Citizens, when he presented a graph of the OECD. The budget - you know, Madam Vice-President - is the most powerful and formidable instrument of economic policy that a government can have. Let us see that, having presented the budget, we are the last in all classifications from the point of view of the European Union and we are the last or the last in the classifications of OECD countries, 46 or 45. Before we were over India and now we are over Argentina. That's the reality. And my question is, if we're the last, who do we blame? To the economic structure of the country? The job model? The pandemic? The pandemic is universal, being the last is particular. So, who do we blame? Because if we are really going to remain the last, why do we want a Vice-President for Economic Affairs? For what? To make diagnoses? For testing? It is this vice-presidency that has to change the economic model, because - I insist - having presented these accounts, the great international agencies continue to place us the last. Expenditure increases, debt increases, deficit increases and we remain the last. Let's see if we can change the formula. It's reality. Using the football simile, if I was the president of a football club and had a team that is permanently the last, I can do two things: stop the coach or put myself on a romantic plane and say I don't give a shit about going down to the second division. I, as a Spaniard, ask you not to lower the second division. We are the last, and sometimes I would like to put myself at the head of all the heads of the ministry you preside over to know what they think every time they receive a classification in which we remain the last. But from here I tell the Spaniards to trust; trust, we are the last, but we have enough potential to get out. And thirdly, it is the budget of inefficiency. It is an absolutely ineffective budget. Do you really think we're going to raise 8240 million euros? Do you really think we're going to grow by 9.8% when the OECD just said we're going to grow by 5%, just half? You have come here to say that trend growth is around 7%. Is 9.8 % of the budget already valid? Is the economic picture no longer valid today? Do you come here today to tell us that the growth forecast no longer corresponds to what you have said here? I think it's very serious. In any case, I insist - with this I finish - let us hope that this will end soon and that the economy will recover. It will not be for you; it will obviously be for the strength of Spanish society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u119	Dear Vice-President or, rather, dear Vice-Presidents, dear colleagues. Dear friend Garcés, fantastic, you have witnessed extraordinary phenomena these days. Well, I, who am a novice MP - it is my first term - and I see for the first time a budget debate in person, I have witnessed a really extraordinary phenomenon, I would say almost paranormal. I attended the Committee on Budgets and saw how the Group of the European People's Party voted as if there were no tomorrow in favour of all the amendments tabled by independent parties and then went out in the media accusing the Spanish Government of barbarity because it accepted six amendments by Euskal Herria Bildu and two by Esquerra Republicana. That, more than extraordinary, is paranormal. We're going with the digitization of the economy. What is this about digitizing the economy? It consists basically of a technological process, a technological advance applied to the economy, applied to the functioning of society, and the effect it produces basically is the effect of approaching, approaching, breaking or removing physical barriers along the path of what Marshall McLuhan once called a global village or global village, which is the process in which we are in. Is this positive or negative? The two things at the same time, like almost all the technological processes, although unfortunately, within the certain unanimity that exists in this matter in this House, I think there is a bit of provincial naivety in that idea that for everything that is modernity we get on the horse and forward. In other words, digitisation is a process that needs to be analysed from a DAFO perspective, from threats and from opportunities. It poses very important threats and opportunities for this country. We have seen it in the recent pandemic, we have seen that the digital economy has had an important role, and that has allowed us to improve our quality of life as it has removed physical barriers from the virtual world, from the digital world. But we have also seen how there are major digital gaps in this country and we have seen how it has had very counterproductive effects from the perspective of equality, as can be the fact that certain companies that market products by telematics - I am not going to say the name of a multinational - have been extremely benefited and certain distribution companies through the Raiders - I am not going to say the name - have also done the real August in this pandemic. And they did August at whose expense? At the expense of the greatest we have in this country, which is the small family business, the small business, which is something absolutely extraordinary that should be treated as the crown jewel, because already from Aristotle basically politics is the science of the cops and should be the science of the city, of the care of the city, of living the city, of the right to the city, and the contribution that small business makes, family business, is absolutely brutal. We have to protect them. Why? Because if digitization, like any technological process, is implemented on a deregulated market and where there are no public policies, what happens? So what always happens is that the big fish eats the small fish and that certain companies get cut off from it and stay with the big one. That is why both are very important: regulating the digital economy and implementing effective public policies. Are they foreseen in these budgets? Absolutely. These are extremely bold budgets. As the Vice-President has rightly said, more than 200 %, a 226 % increase. That is to say, they are courageous budgets in this area, which face the problem of digitisation in depth and which design positive policies, in the sense that they are public policies which aim, on the one hand, at territorial cohesion, and, on the other, at social cohesion, and, on the other hand, at rebounding, on the other hand, they are in some way also breaking the gender gap and generating equality insofar as they allow teleworking and co-responsibility in the tasks that have traditionally been most assumed by women. In that regard, I congratulate you and congratulate you on these public policies envisaged in this area of economic digitization. In these things, however, it is not necessary to be too triumphalistic either. Although budgets are well designed and policies are good, we need to be very careful about implementation. With all humility and modesty, I would like to recommend that we be careful with the implementation of these policies because, unfortunately, we are a country that generates well-designed policies or laws, with absolutely reasonable, sensible, positive and redistributive objectives, but then we have to follow up where all these games end up and what effects they end up producing. That is why, as far as I can, I ask you to implement policies to evaluate these public policies, to evaluate them, to see not only whether they pursue good objectives, but whether they actually achieve them, if they are actually achieving this territorial rebalancing, that fundamental effect of the rural world, of the agricultural and fishing world of emptied Spain. By the way, here I would like to make a small reminder now that much is being said about the tax dumping that may be being done by an autonomous community or one over another. I would also like to recall the dumping of human resources, the extraction of such important human resources that the city of Madrid is making not on the periphery, but on the Castilian plateau, on the cities of Castile, attracting talent, attracting young urban professionals and middle-up classes, emptying of talent to the rest of the cities of the Castilian plateau. Beware of this phenomenon, which is not being given sufficient attention for the future, because it is not worth crying about the measures that were not taken at the time. Finally, I insist on this issue, that the policies that are planned here are good policies, but please do not stray along the way and above all let us re-evaluate them continuously and see that they actually achieve the objectives they pursue and for which they were designed. No more, because I do not want to exhaust my turn, I thank you and wish you the best of luck in implementing this section. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u121	Thank you very much, President. Minister, thank you very much for your intervention. We are faced with the budgets of removing and putting, and in the case of section 27, as you well know, conditioned on your compliance. It is a ministry with a low consolidated expenditure budget of €4905 million, of which 74.5 % is allocated to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, exactly €3654 million. This budget can be seen as a set of programmes that do not consume staff expenditure or current expenditure, consuming almost all resources in real investments, EUR 1005 million, and capital transfers, EUR 2592 million, which are very little transparent in terms of their effective final implementation. The aim is to take advantage of European aid, but, Minister, if it is not accompanied by the relevant detailed programmes required by the European Union, it will remain in no way. It turns out that Spain does not have a good performance in managing European funds, as the European Commission itself recognises. At the end of last year only 33% of the aid had been certified and 72% of the projects selected. In addition, the European Court of Auditors has had to pull the Government's ears, because the expenditure from the 2019 budgets contains too many errors, and that is the budgets extended by the People's Party that Sánchez had to swallow because the Basque Nationalist Party, which had agreed the budgets with the people, benefited - as not, as always - and was one of the conditions sine qua non to support the motion, which would later make him president and which was the beginning of the nightmare that we are suffering from all the Spaniards. We still wonder today why Rajoy did not dissolve the Courts and called for elections. Did he have anything to hide? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] From the analysis carried out in section 27, fifty-three amendments have been tabled to the joint text and one to the whole. Of those amendments, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to some of them. For the vague and its sixteen amendments, attention to justification, which is worthy of mention: to provide the reference action. With this justification, gentlemen of the People's Party, what you should have tabled is three times as many amendments. They still use the cut and stick, cut and stick, and that's how it goes. [[Applauds]] For the Canary Islands Coalition and the rest of the groups, amendments with a marked territorial character. But attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the Republican Left Parliamentary Group is the big prize. They demand nothing more and nothing less than EUR 1191 million, i.e. 25% of the entire budget of Section 27 and 44% of the entire budget of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, with the following justification: managing European funds directly to the Autonomous Communities. [[The lady]] And the amendment of the Socialist Group and the United Nations We can note: 2 million euros to third sector organisations to combat the digital divide between men and women. If it turns out that the National Institute of Statistics defines the digital gender gap as the difference between the percentage of men and the percentage of women in the use of ICT indicators, that is, the use of the Internet in the last three months, frequent use of the Internet and purchases over the Internet, with the surprising result in December 2019 of a value of zero points in the frequent use of the Internet, that is, no difference. But that's true, even if it's surprising, men buy more on the Internet than women for a small difference of 2 points. [[Applauds]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, an example of absurdity; it turns out that my wife buys more on the Internet than I do, spends more on the Internet than I do. Can you explain to me your lordships of the Socialist Party, the United Podemos and the rest of the acolytes what that has to do with the digital gender gap? Do I have to buy and spend the same as my wife to be on equal terms? Do I feel inferior for that reason? Is there only the digital gender gap if I'm the one who spends the most? This feminist delirium and equality transcends all limits and understanding, and you are ending one of the most precious gifts by which we were created: freedom. [[Applauds]] Minister, let me make a parenthesis. Mr Simancas is not here, but before yesterday he suggested that the 52 Members of VOX had declared themselves on strike because they did not submit amendments to the joint text, because they did not come into play. Can you explain to me how it is possible that Mr Simancas in twelve years - six legislatures - has presented only 653 parliamentary initiatives and the average number of parliamentary initiatives presented by my group is over 1000? [[Shows a chart.-Applause]] Mr. Simancas is on a permanent strike; tell him to get to work. In short, they are budgets of removal and putting: I remove where I want and I put where I am interested; they show the insolidity of some geographical areas with others and that, after the pacts of ruin and death achieved with Esquerra Republicana, Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party, they further increase that insolidity and condition the future of other communities, such as that of Madrid. Despite being the community that most contributes to the financing of public services with 70% of the total, Esquerra Republicana has managed, after the agreement reached with the Ministry of Finance, to create a working group on tax reform, whose main objective is to end the fiscal dumping in Madrid, in exchange for its support in the budgets, which I assure you will cause an economic tsunami in Madrid and, therefore, in Spain. Therefore, we will not be part of budgets that have been conceived in the darkest depths, from the darkness and darkness for the purpose of breaking the constitutional order and imposing a new regime. 'The light in the darkness shines, and the darkness did not prevail against it.' Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u123	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Garcés, what is extraordinary is that, with the one that is falling in this country, you have profiled yourself and are not helping your country and the people who are having a bad time. That's extraordinary, Mr. Garcés. [[Applauds]] Mr VOX spokesman, may you speak here today of freedom and work, the party that defends Francoism and the party that has gone on vacation at the worst time of our lives. [[Protests]] What a fabric, gentlemen of VOX! [[Applauds]] Look, gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, we have been doing more than a month, since the Spanish Government presented the draft General Budgets of the State, and you continue in the usual way, which was defined very well a few years ago by Mr Cristóbal Montoro in a conversation with the deputy Ana Oramas: 'Let Spain fall, that we will already raise it'. Those words are going to haunt them forever. You know why? Because one wonders what that statement was translated into. Has Rajoy come a stage of well-being and progress? No, ladies, definitely not. In short, to speak more of the future than of the past: cuts, tax increases, privatizations, less rights, co-payments and the worst unemployment in the entire historical series, with a labor reform through, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] They have also been talking for a long time, especially these weeks, about the Government's support for budgets, specifically about Bildu. This is what they do not to mention the General Budgets of the State, that is the only reason. And you know why? Because they cannot criticize the minimum living income with which we are giving decency to this country, because they cannot criticize the rise to pensioners in this country, because they cannot criticize the salary increase of our public employees - doctors, nurses, teachers, police or civilian guards - or because they cannot criticize that these budgets are the basis for a qualitative leap to transform our economy and improve our well-being also through the Ministry of Economics, where we collect the largest items for the digitization of our companies or our Administration, or for cybersecurity, or digital connectivity throughout the territory, in a country that has changed in weeks what would have taken years, ladies and gentlemen. Budgets that invest 75% more than previous ones in R & D+i policies, or invest in science and innovation. By the way, if from this we are going to defeat the virus and end the pandemic, it is thanks to science and innovation, and not to the Virgin of Dew, as Minister Fatima Báñez was commissioned at the exit of the crisis, who ended up calling external mobility to the exile of our young people who here had no job opportunities. [[Applauds]] Young people who also agree with these General State Budgets, despite you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX, with a shock plan for youth employment of EUR 663 million. But these budgets also speak of strengthening public health, because not only does it defend our health system with applause, let alone hospitals without personnel and without operating rooms, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. We do not forget many other games: for dependence, housing, infrastructure, the rise of Iprem or the ecological transition of our economy. There are also budgets that will allow us to channel, Madam Vice-President, the European Union's funds for the transformation of our country, even in spite of you. While we're talking about all this, what are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Of the independenceists, who, when you ruled, unilaterally declared independence? Are you talking about ETA, which with a socialist government was defeated thanks to the victory of Spanish society? Or do you speak of languages, education or autonomous skills when you signed that Covenant of the Majestic so that Aznar would occupy a place in the Moncloa? What are you gentlemen of the People's Party talking about? In short, they are budgets to protect businesses, workers, self-employed, families and women. New accounts to give stability to this country, to give security to our productive and economic fabric, to give confidence to international markets, to give an image of solvency, credibility, country ambition and economic and social revival following the COVID-19 pandemic, ladies and gentlemen. I end with a final reflection. You, when talking only about the macroeconomic picture, also lie, because the forecasts of the Government of Spain are in line with those of international bodies, such as those of the OECD or with the recommendations of the European Commission for Spain's budgetary plan for 2021, or also in line with forecasts of national bodies such as the AIReF or the Bank of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is the reality. That there are uncertainties? Of course there are uncertainties, you don't have to do much research to say that, ladies and gentlemen. But there are also some certainties that we know after the adoption of this draft budget by the Council of Ministers, such as the announcements about the vaccine, the election results in the United States or the growth of Spanish GDP in the third quarter - with that rise of 17.7%, the largest in the historical series - or with the announcement that today we knew of 100,000 new members of Social Security, recovering the figure of the 19 million people occupied in this country since the state of alarm. There is one more certainty, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: not having General State Budgets for 2021 today would generate much more uncertainty and would have a negative impact on our economy and on the daily lives of millions of Spaniards. And the worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, is that you know it and that is why you fight it, because you are still installed at the worst, best. Take it out of your head, this country will have General State Budgets by 2021, there will be a legislature and tomorrow we will begin to build together a future of shared hopes and dreams for our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we moved on to the debate on section 28, Ministry of Science and Innovation. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u125	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear to set out the general lines of my department's budgets for 2021. During this vicious COVID-19 pandemic, we have all been aware of the key importance of science and innovation. Scientific knowledge and researchers are clear protagonists of this time. Progress made and its practical implementation are present in the day-to-day discussions. Another idea that has emerged strongly is the need to have innovative companies capable of translating all that knowledge into society and, in this case, to provide us with essential supplies without external dependencies. The need for a State policy for science and innovation, a policy worthy of maximum consensus and far from partyism, had never been so evident, because it would be essential to accelerate recovery and, beyond that, to ensure long-term prosperity. In this House we have already achieved in the past consensus on strengthening our science and innovation, as was the unanimous adoption of a Royal Decree-Law on urgent measures to support the research system in March 2019. The budgets of the Ministry of Science and Innovation that I am going to present to you are a unique opportunity to recover ground and put our system up to the level of the most advanced countries in our environment, with the prospect of at least converging in the medium term with the average investment of the European Union. In the following, I will mention figures on non-financial items. The ministry also has financial items that are used for various purposes, but in the past confusion has been created by mixing or adding both together and it seems to me clearer today to expose only the real resources available, the so-called chapters 1 to 7. The ministry's budgets have been designed with two objectives. The first objective, which could be implemented and absorbed by the system. The execution of the ministry and its agencies is above 90% and these budgets are designed to continue to be so. The games are also tailored to the capabilities of the science and innovation system to take advantage of them efficiently. And the second objective is for them to have a short-term or at least medium-term impact, in line with the European Union's demands for recovery funds. Two aspects have prevailed: on the one hand, the recovery of the capacities of the system so affected by the previous crisis, and on the other, we have placed emphasis on the impact of programmes on the productive system through the transfer of knowledge. Budgets for this department represent the largest direct investment in R & D+i in absolute terms in our history, 59.4% more than the budgets for this year, and are over €32 billion, above the previous record of €25 billion in 2009. They are the continuation, and in part the implementation, of the shock plan that I presented in July with more than EUR 1 billion of extraordinary commitments for 2020-2021; they represent an increase greater than the total increase in the general state budgets, as we have said, 59.4% compared to 41%, which is what increases the global accounts, which demonstrates this government's commitment to the research and innovative fabric. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are in line with the conclusions of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction which you adopted last July and which proposed - I quote literally - to increase public investment in civil R & D above the increase in the non-financial expenditure ceiling of the State and to move towards the Community's objectives of total public and private investment. In allocating budget increases, we have been guided by the following priorities. The first priority is to increase calls for funding agencies for science and innovation, in particular for public-private collaboration and knowledge transfer, with economic and social benefits, consolidating the instruments put in place and launching new ones. The second priority is to strengthen the recruitment of research staff with a view to reforming the Science Act, which is currently in public consultation. It envisages the creation of a stable figure of entry into the system, the so-called tenoretrack, which most countries in our environment have. It is a reform aimed at reducing the precariousness and temporality of our young scientists and which affects women in particular. Third priority is the modernisation of the country's leading scientific infrastructures, such as the renovation and improvement of animal testing laboratories in vaccines and treatments and major European national infrastructures. And fourth priority: funding strategic projects with tractor capacity and economic impact, such as personalized medicine or energy transformation in the face of climate change. The budgets also include some regulatory and administrative changes. First, they amend Law 40/2015 on the public sector so that state agencies such as the CSIC and the State Research Agency and entities such as the CDTI can continue with their management particularities that ensure their operation. Secondly, they give a strong impetus to improving the efficiency of project calls and the science, technology and innovation information system, through investments in digitisation of these systems. And, thirdly, they also support scientific and technological parks, which will be re-engineered at twenty-five years old, provided that they demonstrate their viability. I shall go on to detail some of the main developments in this budget. With regard to the increase in calls from the funding agencies for science and innovation in our country, the Centre for Technological and Industrial Development, the CDTI, increases its budget by 445 million - as we have said, not financial - by 42% more than in 2020. It highlights the new fund-sharing initiative for technology-based companies from the research centre, which, together with the funds earmarked for co-investment through the Investment Facility, will receive EUR 217 million by 2021. A new €30 million programme is also envisaged to support innovative SMEs that have received the European Seal of Excellence, accompanying them in their market consolidation phase. In addition, two new instruments launched in the past two years will be continued: the Science and Innovation Missions programme and the Cervera Network between technology centres and small and medium-sized enterprises. We have allocated a total of EUR 140 million to these programmes. For our part, we have increased the resources of the State Research Agency by 29% to an amount of EUR 825 million. In fact, if we meet their commitments to pay for the calls planned for 2021, these - the payment commitments - will double with those for 2020. The increase in resources will be aimed, in addition to consolidating the increase in the general call, at research projects aimed at the transfer of knowledge, to promote and co-finance European cooperation and to human resources programmes which I will then detail. I would now like to refer to the Carlos III Institute of Health, the country's leading health research institution. My department's bet is that this institution will increase its calls by 55 million euros, both for strategic health action and in a call for the renewal of scientific equipment. As I was telling you, another of our priorities is to regain opportunities to attract and retain talent. For this reason, we will allocate more than €60 million more for various human resources programmes, including calls for the incorporation of doctoral students, postdoctoral programmes and those promoting the recruitment of doctoral students in companies and technology centres. In addition, R & D+i will be the priority sector for public employment provision in 2021, with a replacement rate of 110 %. As regards the modernisation of scientific infrastructures, I will inform you of some of the most outstanding. Firstly, we will resume funding on the map of unique scientific and technical facilities with EUR 49.6 million. These are 29 major infrastructures in our country, which have been running since 2011 without all the funding provided. Secondly, we will provide the greatest funding in history to the National Supercomputing Centre, the BSC, in the implementation phase of one of the major supercomputers of the European High Performance Computing Programme. State contributions to the Bilbao Spalling Source, the National Research Centre on Human Evolution in Burgos, and also to the Alba Syncrotron will also be significantly increased. Thirdly, we will allocate EUR 31.6 million to ensure greater Spanish representation and participation in large European research infrastructures, for example, participation in new projects at the CERN, in the Geneva Syncrotron. Finally, we wanted to bet on financing strategic projects with tractor capacity and economic impact; this adds up to more than 350 million euros in emerging areas and in collaboration with the autonomous communities, which will continue in 2022 and 2023. I'd like to value some of them. Firstly, a new joint programming instrument in R & D+i with the Autonomous Communities, to which the Government will allocate EUR 100 million by 2021. Secondly, more than EUR 140 million for concrete actions in health research: first, in the Personalized Medicine Strategy; second, the strengthening of the two centres of the Carlos III Institute dedicated to the fight against COVID-19, the National Microbiology Centre and the National Epidemiology Centre; and third, the Platform for comprehensive approach to pandemics proposed by the CSIC. These are the concrete actions in health research. And, thirdly, research and transfer projects in energy areas, with more than €90 million for the modernisation of infrastructure in the Ciemat: a new energy storage centre in Extremadura in collaboration with the Board; research programmes in new storage technologies with Redox Flow; and study of carbon dioxide capture techniques, among others. Ladies and gentlemen, so far the summary of the budgets of the Ministry of Science and Innovation. They are robust and realistic budgets; they represent a very different response to previous crises where funding was cut to these areas. Our budgets have been cited very positively, even by the prestigious scientific journal, Nature, with a recent article, where they value the transformative capacity of these programs and reforms. The challenge now is that the increase in science and innovation of these General State Budgets 2021 will be consolidated in the future. Last week, the President of the Government had already advanced the importance of them remaining in time and not being bound by a certain situation. In order to strengthen this objective and also in agreement with the conclusions of the Commission for the Reconstruction of Congress I have proposed a pact for science and innovation with three minimum commitments in public finance in the medium and long term, stability for agencies and promotion of talent. It has already been signed by more than forty academic, scientific, social and business organizations in the world of R & D & i. Last week I also officially shared it with the regional councillors with competence in my area; and it is my intention, of course, to present it to your ladies and gentlemen in Parliament in the near future. I firmly believe that these budgets represent the quantitative and qualitative leap that our R & D & I system needs to contribute to the progress and well-being of this and future generations, so I trust in your support for these budgets. We're looking forward to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. In defence of amendments, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor first for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u127	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all, as always, I support all the amendments that have been tabled in the Joint Group by all parliamentary groups. And I must also take this opportunity to refer to the previous section of her colleague, the Minister for Ecological Transition, where I also have a pending amendment, because I would have liked to remind her of the motion adopted by this Parliament concerning the Ebro swamp. The motion we had pending is an investment in the prevention and mitigation of avenues, something related to climate change. I think it is very necessary today; not only do we have to work with nature, but we also have to prevent and protect ourselves from it, because nature has caused a lot of damage throughout history in humanity and we have to defend ourselves from it; therefore we must neither deny nor disregard what engineers say today, because everything that touches nature seems to be negative. That is why I am introducing this amendment for the prevention of avenues. Moreover, it is very related to its section, because the technique and science throughout the history of humanity have caused more benefits than politics, religion or anything else and, therefore, I think we need to empower them. As for his ministry, he has grown a lot, he has a very considerable increase, of more than 60%; it is true that part of a low amount, but I think that is fundamental. In addition, there is another series of R & D & I expenses spread across other sections, in other ministries, which also have a lot of relationship and could even be in your department. That is why we welcome the growth and hope that you will spend it well because, as I have always said, the challenge now is to use it effectively. We here have only one amendment pending. We have requested an increase in the subsidy from the Institute of Environmental Hydraulics. Mr Revilla, in a meeting with you, asked him for EUR 1 million; they have put 200 000. It is true that you did not commit to any amount, so we thank you for including it. But I want to remember here that the Institute of Environmental Hydraulics of Cantabria, which is an institution of the university, of the government, supported by the School of Road Engineers of Santander - as you know, is the first school of Roads that was made in Spain after that of Madrid, and is very prestigious -, is probably one of the five most prestigious institutions in the world in the matter of coasts, especially in the matter of the water cycle. To get an idea of this, you have to look at some data I'm going to remember here. Apart from having a large tank and tsunami channel that can shape and simulate the wind, waves and currents of the world, it has done studies for more than 200 000 kilometres of coastline in all countries of the world; it has carried out 1200 projects in five years in 64 countries, 85 public administrations and more than 250 companies; it has studies of tsunami mitigation in more than 15 countries of the world and has been chosen as a unique Spanish project by the European Union to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the cohesion funds. That is to say, we are here before an institution that, while moving forward, works and is consolidated, needs an impetus. We have to push where we have strengths and here we have one of them that we don't have to despise. In Cantabria, which is a small community, we are all very proud of the School of Path Engineers and, especially, of the Institute of Environmental Hydraulics and other institutions such as the Idival, which is the Valdecilla Institute of Sanitary Research. As you have recalled before, it is one of the thirty that are certified by the Carlos III Institute of Health. At the moment, when we are in the situation we are in and I am not going to remember, they need great support, because all health research will need a lot of momentum in Spain; not only research, but the application and manufacture of all medicines and derivatives so that we do not have to be dependent on the rest of the world. That is why I hope that we can make effective use of all these funds that come from Europe and you, in particular, all these funds that are going to provide your department and those that you did not previously have. I wish you luck.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, President, Minister, let me begin by congratulating all the winners of the Jaume I Awards this week, especially Fernando Maestre, who has been awarded in the category of environment, who is my partner at the University of Alicante and who has also decided to donate the prize to fund stays of African researchers so that they can work here. Congratulations, Fernando. The pandemic we are experiencing is the greatest collective tragedy for our country in many years. It's a health drama, it's a welfare drama, it's an economic drama and it's a social drama. The truth is that we do not yet know very well what its impact will be, but, taking into account the estimates made by the economists, Spain will be one of the countries whose economy is going to be much more damaged in this context. At this time, science and innovation have been shown to be the essential and most effective tools to contain the effects of the pandemic. It is true that the most advanced countries in R & D+i are the ones that have best applied solutions, such as traceability, and those that have best been able to cope with their health systems, since being more digitized they have been less collapsed and responded better. Therefore, the pandemic has been a stress test for our ability to advance science and innovation, and Spain has not come out as well as it should have gone out. The truth is that the budgets under discussion today increase investments in science and innovation. What's less, for we have been asking all the science spokesmen and ministers who have been repeatedly, and this is good news. What's not so good news is that they do it by shooting in part with other people's gunpowder. Let us be honest, Mr Duque, you know that research and science have been the great beneficiaries of the European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and the truth is that many millions of euros that will be used can come from these funds. And here are my first thoughts. Firstly, the first thing to know is that, in order to qualify for these funds, there are sine qua non conditions, but it seems that the current Government has not captured them. In order for funds to be available, the first thing that needs to be done is for the multiannual financial framework negotiations to be completed, and we have recently learned that there is a delay in the refusal of Hungary and Poland, which are two countries that have to take on the commitments of the rule of law in order to qualify for recovery funds. This commitment is part of the conditions for the use of resources. That conditionality is the guarantee that the money we can opt for will be invested in those necessary issues, such as recovery and competitiveness. But the truth is that, seeing the actions of your Government and these very budgets that we are going to vote on today, the budget proposal also does not meet the conditionality in many respects, and this worries us because it does not conform to the reform programme that Europe demands. The truth is that he could have done it and, he could have done it if his President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, had chosen the sensible and moderate alternative that we offered him instead of deciding to subdue this country to nationalism, populism and florets, and all of Spain has seen it. I'm really sorry, and I'm telling you honestly. It's a train that's going to happen once, and we can't miss it. Our first objection to their budgets is that income is not realistic, that it is conditioned and that, in view of what your Government is doing, it seems to me that we are not doing well. Our second objection is that, with Europe's money, the forecasts you make are merely short-term; you have already said this, they have to be sustained in time, because science is not for a year, Mr Duque, science is, at least, for an entire generation and, if possible, for history as a whole. That is why we have doubts that these budgets will be sufficient for the long term - and I do not say so, as the very article of Nature you have quoted says, where it is said that you doubt the guarantees of continuity of these budgets or of these government proposals; therefore, I am not the only one - for two reasons. First of all, because with the figure you hardly budget, we are going to reach 2% of GDP in 2027. Secondly, because if we deduct all the money that comes from the European Union and that you have put into those budgets, your budget increase does not reach 5%. It is, but it is not all that you are selling us or all that we would have wanted. Indeed, we have put forward proposals in this regard, which I believe you even like, but which your Government's sectarianism has caused them to be rejected as a bloc. It's a shame, because we had proposals that are really good. For example, we opened the possibility that the 0.7 box in the income declaration whose purpose is the financing of the Church or for social purposes, could also be used to finance science and research, because I believe that many citizens would like it. We were also proposing an amendment to ensure that 2% was guaranteed and that more was invested in Europe's average. In addition, we proposed, for example, improving indirect financing, incorporating the proposals of the AIReF in the Spending Review on the deduction of R & D & i. Another amendment was aimed at concrete measures aimed at reducing bureaucracy, which you know is very annoying to the...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u130	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u131	Finally, we have tried to deal with More Country an amendment so that FPU and FPI contracts have a work characteristic. Unfortunately, sectarianism has made...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u132	Your Honor, your time is up. I'm so sorry. Thank you so much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, I am going to defend three BNG amendments which I consider interesting, but in any case let me begin by saying that if you really wanted to put an end to the precariousness in the world of research, as you said in your speech, you could have supported the BNG amendment to approve predoctoral contracts to contract for work and service and, therefore, that investigators could be entitled to compensation at the end of that contract. It was a commitment of the PSOE and Podemos in the 2019 budgets, but unfortunately PSOE and Podemos in this case have missed their word and their commitment. We have three amendments. First, to support the southern Galician picosatelite industry, public support is needed for the academic and industrial research network of the picosatelite sector following the successful public projects of the University of Vigo, Xatcobeo and Lume-1. This will enable a labour ecosystem to be established under a high-value-added and qualified agreement and will facilitate the return of emigrant talent. Secondly, for works of reform of the Oceanographic Centre of A Coruña, dependent on the IEO, which is in a serious state of deterioration and which puts at risk the further development of research in it. The draft budget does not provide for a budget to start the reform in 2021, but a budget of EUR 1 350 000 by 2022; what we propose is to advance this action. And finally, the so-called city of ICT, which is a project flagged by the University of A Coruña to transform the old ships of the Pedralonga weapons factory into an ICT pole and digital innovation reference. The Xunta of Galicia has begun its inclusion to obtain European reconstruction funds, but it is also necessary the commitment of the State to promote this project of strategic importance for the modernization of the economy of the area of A Coruña. I think it would be interesting for you to take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego Candaimil. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same group. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, yesterday I was talking in this very rostrum about the measure of reducing working time to improve health and the planet, but also to improve the economy; today I have to talk about what I understand is the other fundamental pillar to give an impetus to our economy. Science and innovation are essential for the change of our productive model, and they have often been very abused in our country. For decades Spain has opted for a thin economy that favours low-productivity sectors and whose competitiveness is basically based on cutting rights and reducing labour costs. If we want to stop being a country that relies exclusively on sangria, brick and beaches, we need to make a national effort to support science and research, and this is essentially a sustained public effort to change the country model. I was preparing these notes with a fellow MP, a friend who is a scientist, now in surplus, and who was joking that all horror movies or all catastrophe movies start when someone doesn't listen to a scientist. This has been the case for a long time with climate change, it is also the case with COVID and it is also the case with the change of our productive model. Not listening to scientists is usually a bad recipe. If you talk to any researcher you will see that science in Spain has three endemic problems: lack of funding, precariousness and absurd bureaucracy. This is not abstract or figures that no one reads, they are concrete things with very real consequences. Spain's share of GDP for R & D is still lower than in 2009, that is to say, we have suffered a truly lost decade, which was not lost then, but we are going to suffer the consequences now. Seven out of ten researchers have ever considered leaving science. Spain has lost 12 000 scientists, Minister, to almost 10% since 2010, according to the European Commission. What's this supposed to mean? For example, research centres have been emptied of Spanish scientists while international flights were filled with them or many people have ended up abandoning, exhausted, the vocation of their life, but not because they did not like it, but because they did not want to be condemned to lead a life as a teenager permanently, not knowing if they were renewing the contract, if they were renewing the research project, if they could get into a mortgage or form a family. The situation of women scientists is also doubly worrying. The Spanish scientists suffer from high rates of abandonment of the research career, very precarious and enormous difficulties in overcoming the glass ceiling and being able to combine work and care or the same decision to form a family. An extra effort is needed to ensure that the current situation does not lead to a definitive blow. We have, in short, been doing a terrible business as a country for years: training scientists and then expelling them abroad; attracting cheap tourism and expelling scientists and all this has a very concrete consequence in terms of impoverishment as a society. One of the ways in which austerity drowned the public, in particular in science and research, was to freeze the replacement rate, i.e., according to whether researchers were retiring, retiring or resigning, no new ones were hired. In this way, the templates have grown older and an entire generation of researchers have had to choose between immigration or precariousness. It has not been very easy on many occasions to negotiate the amendments with the Government, but I have to tell you that in this case, as an exception, a happy exception, we have been listened to in an amendment and I am proud to present it. Thanks to an amendment from More Country-Equo, we multiply the replacement rate. This means that there will be laboratory technicians, who have been chaining temporary contracts for years, who will finally be able to opt for a fixed position in a research group or that a researcher working in London will be able to return here, to her city, Spain, her family and her friends to produce here. However, I warn you that it is not just a question of lack of funding, there is also a problem of insecurity. Doctoral researchers are involved in a precarious situation and you know it, Minister. They are workers, they produce knowledge and they have the same obligations and rights as workers; if anyone receives compensation when a contract is concluded, how is it understood that a doctoral student receives absolutely nothing? You have to listen to research groups, as FPU investigates. They have not listened to the amendments for Congress, but I hope they will do so for the amendments in the Senate, Minister. During these days we are talking about different vaccines that are about to be approved at the end, let's hope, this year: that of Pfizer, that of Moderna, that of AstraZeneca, all big pharmaceutical companies, but, you know one thing? All these vaccines are possible because for thirty years the states have been investing public money in research and basic science, in things that were initially not known if they were going to have practical application, but that will then allow us not to have one, but several vaccines of the COVID. Sometimes I have the feeling that in Spain we want to reap the fruits without having sown before, and only those who sow science, Minister, reap the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Navarro López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u137	Minister, welcome to the Congress of Deputies. I say welcome because this is the second time in the two years that you have been ministering to this rostrum and the first time in a year that you face this rostrum. There are seventeen petitions for attendance, many of them requested by my group in the Committee on Science and Innovation and Universities, to which you have not responded. There are thirty requests for appearances, including the Director General of the Carlos III Institute of Health, to which you, as responsible for all of them, have not responded. You are the minister of the entire cabinet who most often hides, who loves to come to this Congress to give his face, and that also goes in the office, Minister. You wanted to be a minister, you wanted the job, but you also have to assume the burden, and you like little to face. I tell you this because in relation to you - I have told you many times - there are two things that are deeply objective. One, you were a prestigious professional, that's obvious. Two, that this budget has grown considerably, at the expense or thanks to the funds of the European Union, but it is true, it is objective - to say otherwise would be lying - that it has grown in section 28. But these two objective facts face an objective clumsy reality, and it's that you don't know how to manage. You've been running Spanish science and innovation for two years and you haven't started managing Spanish science and innovation yet. The People's Group does not say that. I know you don't like me talking about Cotec, so I'm going to talk about the National Statistical Institute and Eurostat. Just like those smiles a little less, just like those do believe them, because the National Institute of Statistics, therefore the Government of Spain, yours, says that you in 2019 failed to execute 421 million euros in grants. You say here whenever you only talk about non-financial items, but the budget - ask the minister - is absolutely everything. Don't look, it's not, it's obviously not, it's obvious, it was a way of talking. [[Applauds]] I guess he'll be looking for something. Then I'll tell you about it anyway. There are 332 euros per inhabitant in investment in R & D+i when the European average is 683. The problem is that annual growth goes down. Year-to-year growth in 1917 was 6% and this year is 4%. That's what the National Institute of Statistics says, Mr. Duque. We had to see - we met last week - how two innovation powers like Greece and Poland have passed us, we had to see how Portugal has increased the difference with Spain. The problem is that the 2021 budget, which you have presented, does nothing to prevent this situation. He was talking about the article in Nature magazine. He says more things. He said, for example, that it was worrying how growth was in the short term, because all budgetary growth was thanks to the European Union's funds. With all our scientists confined, because you were unable to defend them to be essential personnel, with all our scientists literally playing life, in a year in which science has been at the center of absolutely everything, you have only been able to be the 17th fastest growing ministry, 5% if we take away the European funds. That is the reality, and you have given up on achieving the 2% of GDP target for investment in R & D+i. This is a reality, because the pact you sent us says 1:25 in 2024. To rule is to prioritize, to rule is to choose, and you have chosen. The General Budgets of the State bet for the space race, but for its own, for its space race, not for the Spanish one. It increased the funds to the European Space Agency by 50% when it arrived. This year the CDTI has 40 million euros for the Spanish aerospace industry and zero for the automotive industry, which contributes 11% of the gross domestic product to our economy. Zero euros for innovative automotive, 40 million to pay for your trip to Paris. That is the summary, Minister, that is the summary. [[Applauds]] I have come up to this rostrum with two news, and I will show you the first one, because these budgets lack 200 million euros, Mr Duque, which are the ones we have lost with a satellite, the Ingenio, that nobody knows where it is. [[shows a document]] Of course we are all aware - I am going to tell you - that you are not to blame that the Ingenio satellite and 200 million euros have been lost. I agree with you that it is not customary for such a satellite to be secured, I agree, but you will also agree that you are the Minister of Science and you have to face this Parliament. The Group of the European People's Party has asked for his appearance so that, once and for all, he can appear and tell us why Spain has lost EUR 200 million, which I do not say is his fault, but he should obviously face it. Or is it that you are afraid to anger the European Agency and jeopardize its candidacy to chair it, and to leave the ministry once and for all, which is what you want? With 200 million euros would be paid ten thousand contracts of predoctoral researchers; 200 million euros is all the money for health in full year COVID that you have put in the Plan of Shock of Science; with 200 million euros would be paid ten million doses of the Pfizer vaccine. All that could be done with that 200 million euros. And you say that the sector has benefited from this investment, but the reality - I teach you the second news, Mr Duque - is that there are up to 3000 redundancies on the table of the space aeronautical sector. [[shows a document]] That is the reality, that those 200 million thrown or lost really don't recover as much as you said. That's why we demand responsibility. If it's not a lost investment, come here and face it. I know he doesn't like to give his face - he's the minister who's least often attended - but that's also in charge. The problem is that since he arrived he has done nothing but leave, since he came all he wanted to do is leave. We, with our amendments, which I take for granted, do not give up, as no autonomous community governed by the People's Party, to reach 2% of the investment of gross domestic product in R & D+i. Four of the eight autonomous communities - only eight - that have recovered investment and employment in R+D+i to pre-crisis figures are governed by the People's Party. That is why we have tabled amendments to defend the State Innovation Agency, the automotive sector, the biotechnology sector, to propose a systemic change, so that even you can implement the budget, because it is clear that you just don't know. You speak of consensus, but the reality is that you have never called this group to talk about the budget. You negotiate with Bildu and with Esquerra the budget, and you speak of consensus, but you are unable to call the People's Party to negotiate it. Manage, if you know, once and for all, Mr. Duke. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u138	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u139	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Minister. The budgets we are debating these days also mark a turning point in our scientific system. Spain has not exactly been characterised by a clear stake and sustained investment in research and science. In Spain, unlike the countries in our environment, it was only invested in R & D+i when the economic situation was favourable. Surely some thought that it was necessary to be a very rich country to investigate, when it is often the other way around, it is necessary to investigate to generate value and innovation. Well, in the current context, marked by an unprecedented health and economic crisis, we are going to have budgets that understand scientific research as a country's priority, and as a lever policy to address the pending transformations in our productive model. Indeed, these budgets increase direct investment in science by 59.4% to EUR 3232 million. Therefore, any analysis, such as the one we have just heard from Mr Navarro, which does not start with these figures and does not recognise that we are facing a historical increase, cannot be fair. As I say, we are faced with public accounts that make scientific research a country's priority, which is precisely what had not been done before. That is why it is so regrettable that the People's Party is charging against budgets that represent an unprecedented advance in investment in science, because it is also being done by the People's Party itself, which did not hesitate to crush scientific research to square the accounts of its austereicide. [[Applauds]] Or do we have to remember that during the years of his government more than 12,000 researchers who had no choice here left the country? These budgets also reinforce our innovation system with a 42% budget increase for the CDTI, which is going to be a powerful stimulus to move towards diversifying our productive fabric, reindustrialisation, health sovereignty and ecological transition. In any case, in the United Nations we also do not want to incur a futile triumphalism. Much remains to be reconstructed and much remains to be expanded in the system of science, technology and innovation, and we know it. And to admit that these budgets do not cover all needs is not a symptom of weakness; I believe, on the contrary, that it means admitting that the needs accumulated for so many years will need public policies with a multiannual approach. Some challenges are particularly pressing, Minister. [[The lady]] In the last decade the research staff, also the technical and management staff - we often leave it out - have been diminished and precarious. These budgets should therefore also be used to increase staffing and, at the same time, to reduce time in public research bodies. Nor can we forget the predoctoral and postdoctoral contractors. We are well aware of the need to dignify their working conditions, including the right to compensation for dismissal, which was a commitment on the coalition government's agenda, and I believe we have to comply with it. To this end, Minister, I propose - and I think it is urgent - the amendment of Law 14/2011 on Science, which will have to be amended in many respects, but especially in those which serve to dignify the conditions of the research staff, also of the technician and of the management. We therefore hope that these budgets will contribute, first and foremost, to the strengthening of the public research system. Of course, it is necessary to generate incentives for private investment in R & D+i and to encourage new forms of public-private cooperation, but above all it is necessary to maintain the strategic role of the State in order to regain technological sovereignty and to guide this virtuous collaboration between the public and the private. Soviet cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova said that, like a bird cannot fly without a wing, science cannot fly if half of the population is missing, if women are missing, and we also hope that this budget will serve to boost many research projects that break with this gender gap in science. In any case, Minister, I believe that, if we were honest, we should all recognize today that we are facing a change in the trend for scientific policy in Spain. The crisis of COVID-19 has reminded us of something that should never have been forgotten, namely that science is strategic for the endogenous and sovereign development of a country, and that strengthening our scientific capacities is also a matter of state. Let us therefore acknowledge how much progress we have made with these budgets for 2021, and let us continue to work to recover all the time lost, to make further progress and also to make science a sign of the identity of our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Utrilla Cano has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u141	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no future without science, because science is future. In VOX we are fully convinced of the imperative need to invest in science and innovation, because the countries that invest the most in science are the ones that generate the most wealth, those that stand out for their excellence, the most competitive, those that retain their talent; in short, those that are better prepared and better advised to deal with disasters such as this pandemic that has shaken us all. Unfortunately, Spain is not among these countries, despite the very high level of our scientists, despite their recognized international prestige, despite their commitment and dedication. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen? With this talent we have in Spain, what fails? I will explain it to you: in Spain what fails are the Socialist Party and the People's Party, who have alternated governments with a common denominator, which is to turn their backs on science. [[Applauds]] Let's be clear, science for you is not an electorally profitable business. In four years a legislature does not collect the revenues that you seek in an obsessive way, it takes decades to see the results. That is why, gentlemen of the PP, you have abandoned science during your years of government. They are shielded by saying that they received a ruined Spain, and it is true, they received a solar, but in the list of investment priorities the science was falling with you to the last positions, until it fell into the most absolute of the forgotten. And you, lords of the PSOE, take heart from the effort of these budgets by saying that you are the greatest in the history of democracy. But, in fact, if we scratch a little bit, we realize that if we take away the European Union Recovery Mechanism's endowments it is barely 5.1% what you bet on for science; a small and more than insufficient so much of our GDP. If they do not get Europe's help - which is more than likely - this government will continue to leave science behind. In order to resolve this situation, it is essential to reach a commitment to the science of all political forces and finally to have a long-term scientific strategy in Spain. But the problem is that you, gentlemen of the government, the consensus understands it as scientific lentils: either you take them or you leave them. They put a document on the table and we just have to assume it. That is not called consensus, Minister, that is called imposition, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to invest the funds that Europe gives us, this is the necessary condition, but not enough; it is not about investing more, but about investing better and - attention! - providing agile and simple mechanisms for our scientists to work quietly, without permanently colliding against that wall - which you have raised for decades - of bureaucracy. [[applause]] I'll give you an example. Can you imagine that the official cars, with which you walk, were standing in the garage without petrol? This happened in February of this year with the Oceanographic Institute, endowed with more than 65 million euros, with a staff of more than seven hundred people, with twenty boats, that had to see how he tied his fleet because they were unable to solve the administrative procedures to buy fuel and supplies for their ships. This catastrophe ended the chain resignation of his high offices. But the most disappointing thing about all this is that the institute faced these economic problems with tens of millions of euros in its accounts and, according to the ministry itself, they could not be easily accessed. A major misconception, Minister. Public research agencies have seen a considerable increase in their investment, which we applaud, but you still do not face the structural change needed to get rid of the administrative obstacles and legislative constraints that make your work very difficult. For example, whenever a public research body takes a decision to participate in a European initiative, the approval of the subscription fee must pass through the Council of Ministers. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard well, by the Council of Ministers, even if it is a minimum amount of hundreds of euros. On many occasions these amounts remain unpaid, causing significant damage to our scientific entities. Likewise, if they want to hire staff and have the funds approved by the IGAE, the awards have to go through the approval of the Undersecretary of State. They hear well again, by the Undersecretary of State. If they are not able to make the scientific ecosystem more flexible, they will not be able to make it operational, and even if they drain European funds, we will not be able to achieve anything. What is even worse, they will not only squander our money, but also the scientific prestige of our researchers. You've got our scientists pinned down with a thick bureaucracy, and you justify all these rigidities to avoid excesses and corrupt them. But let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, how many cases of corruption have there been in the scientific sphere? Tictac, tictac. No, gentlemen of the government, the controls need you and the People's Party, which have turned the book of corruption into their headline novel, with the colebrones of the EREs and Gürtel. [[Applauds]] Let the scientists work in peace and do not put sticks on the wheels, simplify bureaucracy and remove unnecessary obstacles so that our excellent professionals do not lose a peak of energy on unproductive issues, and optimize their efforts. In short, and for all of us to understand, provide our research centres with mechanisms as simple as the ones you have used to raise their salaries in such a fast and effective way. So easy. [[Applauds]] And, finally, these budgets are not only intoxicated by the blackmail of coups and bilebacks, but also are based on an absolutely unrealistic macroeconomic picture, confronted by experts of all kinds: the analysts of the Banco de España, the AIReF or the International Monetary Fund. With these foundations, loaded with irresponsible optimism, failure is guaranteed. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, if you sink into Spain again - and you are on the right track - science will return to darkness. I started by saying that without science there is no future, but, remember, without bread we won't have science either. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u142	Thank you, Mr. Utrilla. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Alfonso Cendón has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u143	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking these budgets, putting science at the centre of political discourse and betting, as no other government has done to date, on R & D+i. History does not fail, but the facts show that politicians do. The human being is the only animal that stumbles twice upon the same stone. For a few minutes I want to go back to the time of the Illustration and remember doctor Edward Jenner, who developed the first vaccine in history, that of smallpox, at the end of the 18th century, saving millions of lives and forcing a true turning point in human history. Jenner's discovery was received with enthusiasm, but he also had a strong opposition. The controversy over the inoculation of the disease that caused the death of one in twelve people in the world was softening. People were afraid, never before had this medical method been used, but the good results came. Although two hundred years had to pass, the smallpox was declared officially eradicated in 1980. Now I wonder why three centuries later we continue to have negatists within this Parliament, modern, intelligent men and women, who know by proven facts that science has been present in the great advances in the history of humanity, in the improvement of quality and life expectancy, in freedom and in the equality of people. Although negationism has always existed, the Illustration stimulated the use of reason to address the problems and unknowns of life, positively influencing scientific research. That is why today, with COVID-19, which threatens our lives, as an advanced society, we must put all our efforts into a stable scientific system. We need more science, not less. We need to ensure peace of mind by providing the greatest number of resources to scientific projects and studies, to innovation to deal with the nightmare that today steals the dream from the brightest minds, scientists of race who, despite the circumstances, work tirelessly to find a way out of this pandemic. I was saying at the beginning of my speech that we politicians are wrong, yes, we are women and men, but we are in time to correct our shortcomings. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, acknowledge your mistakes, abandon the politics of brick and bet on the future, on science. [[Applauds]] Isabel Zendal, recognized as the first nurse on humanitarian mission in history - and who gives name to the infamous hospital inaugurated yesterday by President Díaz Ayuso in the Community of Madrid - participated in the expedition organized by Dr. Balmis to bring the smallpox vaccine to America. I'm sure if Isabel Zendal knew what they put her name on, she'd deny it. To an empty ship, no medical professionals, no O.R., no ICU. [[Protests]] In something I have to give you the reason, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in something Mr García Aegean said the other day. That hospital should have the name of Isabel Díaz Ayuso for something very clear, because it represents the rancid values of the People's Party, the urban ball, corruption, the science against the brick and the overcosts; overcosts that I hope a commission of inquiry will study and see if they have dedicated them to the commissions that you like so much... [[applause]] [[protests]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u144	Mrs. Montesinos, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u145	Because those funds... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u146	Mrs. Angulo, so are you. [[Rumors]] Mrs. Jiménez Becerril, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u147	... they should go to primary care, to hire health personnel and to scientific research, as these budgets do, which increase non-financial spending on science by more than 59%, thus dignified the work of our scientists and scientists. Scientists and scientists who saw how the People's Party turned their backs on them, and who after listening to their spokesperson today, continue to endure the indifference of a party that undervalues their profession. Look, whenever the People's Party has ruled science has had to be filled with patience, and with these budgets it's going to be filled with decency again. [[Applauds]] As an example, we have only to look back on his last Minister of Science, Mr De Guindos, who was only considered Minister of Economics, who ignored the sector, never met with him and condemned thousands of scientists in our country to labor exile. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I know that comparisons are odious, but I invite you to make a little memory to recognize where we came from. Public and private investment in R+D+i experienced very significant increases during the governments of President Zapatero, reaching our historical peak in 2010: 1.4%; then came the People's Party and established a big gap between Spain and Europe; Spain in 2017 had the ratio of investment in R+D+i in 1.2% compared to 2.07 of the European Union. But today again, with a progressive coalition government, we are again betting on science in our country, with exceptional budgets looking for a turning point to reach 2% of GDP in investment in science. It is inconceivable that the People's Party and Citizens will turn their backs on budgets that will stimulate R & D & I as one of the basic pillars for the reconstruction of our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have always waited for you in all the advances in science, and you have always been late. Be responsible, you're on time. In short, with all the letters on the table, we here have to recognize at least three master lines planned by the government in which it will not weaken: the strengthening of our knowledge generation system, the strengthening of a stable scientific career, through the implementation of the tenore-track model, and the increase of actions for the transfer of knowledge and public-private collaboration. Finally, I would like to highlight the efforts being made by this Government, and particularly Minister Duque, to achieve a great pact, a great agreement for science and innovation in our country, which has already achieved the consensus of civil society and which must serve as a basis for us all here to achieve a great parliamentary agreement of all the political groups represented in the Congress of Deputies, so that science is considered a key element of our country's national security, thus ensuring our economic progress. Ladies and gentlemen, bet on science, we all win. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u148	Thank you, Mr. Alfonso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We now turn to section 29, Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030. For the section presentation, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing in this House general state budgets that are opening a new stage in Spain, from the economic and also from the political point of view. These are historical budgets that definitely leave behind the budgets of precariousness and the cuts of Cristóbal Montoro, which are going to represent the highest level of public investment in history and that will allow us to rebuild public services, recover rights and face the great challenges in terms of transformation that our homeland has. The last budgets that were approved in this House in 2018 during the government of Mariano Rajoy were budgets that were inserted within the framework of policies of neoliberal austerity, dismantling of public services and erosion of acquired labour, social and pension rights; a political stage marked by corruption, which resulted in a serious deterioration of the living conditions of the social majority. It should be remembered especially in this year of pandemic that the cuts of more than EUR 10 billion in public health - which everyone today understands that we were placed in a situation of greater weakness to deal with a health emergency like the one we are experiencing - were a mistake. While in Europe there was an increase in health investment in the same years, in Spain the gross domestic product was reduced by almost 1 percentage point. I think it is clear that if these cuts in public health had not been carried out, our country would have been able to cope with the COVID-19 pandemic in many better conditions. It would be no more for the People's Party to recognize here that it was wrong to cut public health and assume that this is something that never again, ever again, can happen in Spain. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so; I think it would be a noble exercise of political dignity that many people would like to hear, including many voters of the People's Party. Faced with those cuts in health, today we are discussing budgets that increase public health investment by 150%, which is something that, honestly, I think we should put into value, given the circumstances. I think it's the least we could do for all the doctors, nurses and public health professionals who have played and continue to play the type, in very difficult conditions, to protect us all from the threat of the coronavirus. And beyond health, these are accounts that increase investment in education by 70%; 46 % in dependency; 80 % in research; 22 % in university scholarships; 30 % in employment promotion; 60 % in the fight against child poverty; 70 % in social services; or 157 % in equality policies, among other important data. The policy, ladies and gentlemen, is to a large extent to decide where the money is put, where the resources and collective wealth of a country are put, and this Government is putting the resources to ensure the defence of a fundamental constitutional principle, which is the general interest. Because these data I have listed translate into the fact that boys and girls in Spain are going to have access to quality education, regardless of their economic origin; that our older adults receive worthy attention in line with the efforts they have made throughout their lives; that our scientists and researchers can exercise their profession with more support and resources, without being forced to emigrate so that, in the end, it is other countries that benefit from the fruits of their talent; that if a worker loses his or her job he or she has more support from the institutions; that social services professionals have more tools to guarantee social protection or that public administrations have more instruments and resources to promote full equality between men and women; and also for the eradication of male-female violence. These budgets also contain some measures that I believe it is important to highlight in the area of fiscal justice, which will help to ensure that those who have the most, contribute more, and that they represent a very important first step towards a profound reform of our tax system, which corrects the disadvantage of more than 7 points that we carry with regard to the countries in our environment. In this sense, we reduce the deductions to private pension schemes; we raise company tax for large business groups, limiting the dividend and capital gains exemptions generated by their participation in subsidiary companies; we raise 1 point the property tax for those assets of more than 10 million euros; we raise 3 points the IRPF for capital income of more than 200 000 euros; we raise 2 points the IRPF for labour income of more than 300 000 euros, and we set a minimum tax of 15% for so-called Socimi. Surely the right-wings, who do not believe in the tax justice that our Constitution establishes and who always work to defend the interests of those who have the most, are going to say that these fiscal measures affect the pockets of the middle and working classes, which, as we all know, have salaries in excess of EUR 300 000 and assets of more than EUR 10 million. I will highlight some of the measures that are within the competence of the Vice-President of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 and some other ministerial departments with which we are working to make them effective. First, as noted above, strengthening attention to dependency. We will increase the State's contribution to the dependency system by more than €600 million to reduce waiting lists and improve benefits, reversing the cuts made by the People's Party in 2012. We are going to use more than EUR 700 million of European funds to carry out investments that will improve care for the elderly, moving from the current model, based on residences, towards a model more similar to that of the Nordic countries, which will bet on home care. Secondly, we are going to strengthen the care system and we are going to promote conciliation. We will invest EUR 200 million this year to boost education from 0 to 3 years, EUR 300 million to equalize maternity and paternity leave in sixteen weeks and to make them in transferable and remunerated at 100 per cent, and we will also use EUR 200 million to support the reconciliation of families with children under 14 years of age through the public procurement of professional caregivers, as a first step towards building a care system that assumes the co-responsibility of public administrations in this area and which is also a source of employment generation. I believe that these are very important measures to respond to a crisis that, as the Ministry of Equality often insists, has also been a crisis in the care system. Thirdly, the strengthening of social protection. We strengthen active employment policies with an additional EUR 2 billion; we allocate more than EUR 200 million to strengthen and modernise public social services, as head of the Ministry of Social Rights, on which social services in Spain depend; we ensure the updating of pensions to the CPI and the increase of non-contributory pensions twice the CPI; and we increase by 5% the so-called Iprem, the public indicator of income with multiple effects. For everyone to understand, unemployment benefits and the majority of the social assistance available in Spain are linked to the Iprem, which had been virtually unchanged for ten years. This increase, for example, will improve the benefits that many long-term unemployed are receiving, the active income of insertion, the income of farming, rental aid or a multitude of scholarships. Finally, we cannot talk about these budgets without mentioning the reconstruction agreement reached in Europe, a historic agreement that expresses a new consensus of the time, a new common sense of the time around neo-Keynesian policies as a more effective way of dealing with a reconstruction that can be compared with other moments of European reconstruction, such as the one that took place after the Second World War. I believe that those of us who have been defending for years that there was another way of dealing with a crisis from the European institutions and that the stage of neoliberal austerity has caused serious damage to the common project, we have reason to be very pleased that Europe's response, largely thanks to the work of this government and other governments in southern Europe, is, to a large extent, in line with what some of us have always been betting on. Now we have the challenge as a country to take advantage of this opportunity provided by European funds to move our country forward in a progressive direction, to overcome the structural weaknesses of our economic system and to tackle the major transformations that Spain needs in terms of reindustrialisation, economic diversification, digitisation and ecological transition. He said at first that these budgets are opening a new stage in Spain in economic terms, but also in political terms. The majority that will be expressed here in the next few hours, for which some of us have worked hard not only during the last few months, but during the last few years, is a majority that represents a country project, a plural, diverse, democratic, fraternal and plurinational Spain that I think looks much more like the country that we are than the narrow and centralist idea that has the right. [[Applauds]] Spain is not just what the People's Party, VOX and Citizens say it is. All the parliamentary groups in this House represent a part of the country. Look, this Sunday, December 6th, is the anniversary of the Spanish Constitution and we will surely see your Lordships on the benches of the right saying that they are more constitutionalist than anyone else, when we talk about a Constitution that you did not even support at the time. I want to say here today that any of the parliamentary groups that make up the plural majority that will make these budgets come true - the Republican Left of Catalonia, the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu, More Madrid, Compromís and Teruel There are, all these groups that I want to thank on behalf of the government for their support - understand much better the social spirit of the Spanish Constitution and take much more seriously the effective implementation of the social rights enshrined than the deputies of the People's Party or of VOX. The rights present here do not believe in fiscal justice, do not believe in public services, do not believe in workers' rights, do not believe in the right to decent housing, do not believe in the primacy of the general interest, do not believe in the Spanish Constitution. They consider the Constitution to be an artifact designed to strike him in the head to whom he thinks differently. They defend a state idea that does not reflect the plurality of Spain and that contributes to something that seems to me, as a Democrat and also as a Spaniard, to me a problem, because there are many citizens in some territories who then want to have their own state, because they have often had the feeling that the institutions of the state were alien to them or were a matter of Madridns. When Mr García Egea of the People's Party goes on television and openly proposes that his party will continue to block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary because United Podemos o Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya o EH Bildu, that we are political forces that represent a part of this country with exactly the same legitimacy as the deputies of the People's Party, we have no right to participate in the renewal of a constitutional organ, what he is doing is defending a state that expels millions of Spaniards from his bosom. [[Applauds]] He is simply pointing out that the State is his own. That approach is behind much of the problems and tensions that Spain has experienced in recent years, that you thought the State was yours. I believe that in the face of the right which does not believe in the Constitution and which only accepts democratic procedures if they govern them, the political groups that we make up the parliamentary majority that will make these budgets come true have a historic commitment; a historic commitment not only to the economic and social transformations that we have the opportunity to achieve from these budgets, but also to the opportunity to build a more plural, more democratic, more fraternal and more inclusive State and country. The opportunity, in short, to consolidate a majority that looks much more like Spain and that is called to be a majority no longer of budgets, but of state leadership that will move our country forward in a progressive direction and that will keep the right out of the government for many years. One last thought to finish. We are at the door of the end of a year that has been very hard for the people of our country with the arrival of a pandemic, the worst in the last hundred years of human history, which has caused and continues to cause enormous suffering and uncertainty. The right-wings, who today once again make the rift their mark of identity in this debate, saw the pandemic not as a serious crisis, but as a great opportunity to bring the Spanish government down. Well, it seems that we are going to get out of this debate with the approved budgets and with the parliamentary majority that made possible this consolidated and strengthened government with groups that have gone from abstention to yes. I am sorry to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, that you are going to have Socialcommunist government for a while. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u151	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Teruel Party, and of the Canary Islands Coalition, included in the Joint Group, I support its amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u153	Thank you, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing one of the most important blocks of these budgets, taking into account the crisis in COVID, which has hit our country so much and has exposed the social difficulties that many families are experiencing. It is a section, Mr. Iglesias, in which the focus should have been on promoting and protecting the most vulnerable sectors and defending the measures that enable us to implement the Sustainable Development Goals, which are based on the defence of human rights. I deeply regret the veto and rejection of measures that contributed to the social progress of those groups that are experiencing the worst in our society. I am faced with a frontal veto, with a frontal negative for the mere fact that the person presenting these measures is Citizens. [[Applauds]] What is required of us in the social situation in which we find ourselves is responsibility. Responsibility is demanded of the Government and that means not saying no to those measures that do contribute to social progress. We have talked about this in the Commission on more than one occasion. Progress in the area of dependency. As far as 2020 is concerned, more than 20 million people have died waiting for the aid they had given. That has made it clear to us that there is an outstanding matter and has filled us with sadness; they have died without getting help. What did Citizens ask for? Increase the funds in dependence to 1.2 billion in these General State Budgets. What have we met with? With a frontal rejection. Let us address child poverty. We had asked in an amendment an issue which, as you are well aware, the third sector is asking for. Why eliminate the dependent child benefit? We are aware that a vital minimum income has been created, which we have supported. We believe that a good defence must be made and the rights of those in severe poverty guaranteed, but what do we do with raising families in relative poverty? What has been done is to eliminate the benefit and what Citizens have done is to propose an amendment so that this benefit is not eliminated. What have we met with? With a frontal veto. Why? Because it's Citizens who propose it. I think it's totally unfortunate. Unaccompanied young children and girls, another of the major vulnerable sectors. What did Citizens ask for? Let's increase the funding. We believe that EUR 27 million has been increased for the Autonomous Communities, but that EUR 40 million was previously allocated to the most affected Autonomous Communities. What have we ordered? That item should be increased to an additional EUR 12 million. What are we meeting? Again, with a rejection. Is this progress in social progress? Is this helping those who are most in need? [[Applauds]] Then why do they say no? What are you looking at? The political color? You will see that I speak to you with anger, but it is that I got into politics to defend the vulnerable, to advance in social progress, not to be told that not by the mere fact that I belong to a certain political party. Having internalized the defense of human rights seems to me to fall very low. In this respect, I could continue with some amendments, amendments to support large families, amendments to ensure food security, amendments that do not propose economic compensation but that I do believe it is important to highlight, since they propose to develop the strategy for the social inclusion of the Roma people, to develop the Strategy for the Homeless. It has been said: Do we believe in social justice? I totally believe in social justice. Do I believe in the right to housing? All in all, that is why we have tabled an amendment that considers and establishes a defense of the most vulnerable in housing, such as chabolism and infra-housing. What have they done? Vote no. Therefore, I call for reflection. From Citizens we will continue to denounce situations of inequality and defend situations of social progress that are needed. What we want is to put into practice that beautiful phrase of not leaving anyone behind. We will continue to bet on this and we will not tire of defending our measures, but what I want to make very clear here is that we need a high level of attention, ladies and gentlemen, especially because this pandemic is going to lead us to a medium- and long-term process where many people and many families are going to have a very bad time. It seems that the Members who are in this Chamber throughout the day are developing in this environment, but we have to go out on the street, we have to see what happens to certain sectors. We have also proposed to protect the vulnerable self-employed: what happens to the holidaymakers, what happens to the street vendors from whom I only receive calls saying to myself: Sara, I do not arrive at the end of the month and we have no help? What's going on? Well, they vote we don't. Therefore, we have a feeling of frustration, but of frustration from the great conviction of a defense for which we are all - all - here. Therefore, I want to ask you for commitment, responsibility, height of sight and tell you that from Citizens we will continue to defend in an untiring way everything that we believe is useful and necessary for social progress, and that is where they will always find us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor. [[Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Rumores.-Several Members of Parliament speak words that are not perceived.-A Member: We too know how to speak from the seat. And also tall, so that you know. A little respect.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to intervene only when you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u155	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, you again deny your powers here today. You present yourself here today as a messiah, as a savior of humanity, but I'm going to put you in a hurry with reality. We don't get stronger, we get more unequal, we get poorer; there are more women unemployed, more youth unemployment, less members, less self-employed, less businesses and more social crisp. [[Applauds]] You're in your sauce, and I'm going to give you a real example of your social shield. [[Show a document]] Do you think that a mother with three children your government can recognize a minimum living income of 18 euros a month? Can you live, can you pay for the house, can you eat? This is his social failure. Your budget is unreal, it's cheating, it's cheating. It announces 600 million euros of totally insufficient dependence, because it has not had the courage to recover in the budgets the failed 1 billion euros for dependence and social services that they announced in May and that did not arrive. He managed to budget 900 million euros of European funds - it is true - after riding the number to Pedro Sánchez, but the reality is that 1 out of 4 euros of his budget are in the air, they are the tale of milk. These budgets will be social when you execute them. It announces that with these European funds it will boost a kind of investment plan E to change the residential model and trusts in the new residential model projects that are not even approved by Europe. They're leaving residences again. This has only one name: frivolity and deception to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] We say no to the propaganda budget because they destroy jobs, spread poverty, harass citizens and spend without criteria. His ministry has a superstructure of fourteen high offices and twenty-five advisers. Return to the spirit of the 15-M - which you can, Mr. Iglesias - eliminate superfluous expenses of the ministry in high offices, official cars and advisors, and allocate this savings to protect families and reduce child poverty, as requested by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Another question, Mr Vice-President. You're a declared feminist, aren't you? For in his ministry there are fourteen high offices, of which only three are women, neither parity nor equality. And I wonder: what role does the Minister of Equality have in the Ministry of Social Rights? None. No wonder the minister is crying. [[Laughter]] This budget forgets families because it abolishes the dependent child benefit, leaves families in relative poverty out and veto the amendment of the People's Party that proposes to recover it. It is obscene that with one hand the salary is raised and with the other hand the nominative aid to Caritas and Red Cross is cut, while the queues of hunger continue to grow. They veto the People's Party's proposals to reduce children's and older people's diapers to superreduced VAT, to strengthen support for large and single-parent families, and to improve the maternity supplement to pensions; they also veto the youth employment assistance fund, with 40% youth unemployment, and they veto an increase of up to 1% of the IRPF of social action. This is your social justice. They devote only EUR 7 million to disability, but allocate EUR 4 million to the new Directorate General for Animal Welfare, of which more than EUR 1 million a year will be allocated to rent a headquarters because they do not belong in the ministry; in the ministry, they will also dedicate another million euros to externalize studies in the Directorate General for Animal Welfare. All right, Mr. Churches, live your coherence! You lie when you say that these budgets are going to end austerity. With these budgets the cuts of the next decade are born because this happens when it always governs the left. I remind him that it was Zapatero in 2010 who made the biggest cut to the welfare state of history, with the vote of Congressman Sánchez. [[Applauds]] In the area of residences and dependency, you have only chaired a meeting to deal with the incidence of the virus in residences, a meeting. [[Shows several photocopies of a newspaper]] His priorities are clear, he has made it clear today: he prefers to meet with Otegi and Rufián to sell Spain in pieces, whitewash Bildu or say that Bildu respects the Constitution, as today. Where are the people who have died in the residences? Where's your responsibility? A meeting and many more meetings with Rufián and Otegi to remedy precisely their incompetences in the field of residences. [[Applauds]] How many residences have you visited, Mr. Churches? How many? None, right? It is unforgivable for the representative of the people and the vice president of the Social Agenda. We can in this House accused the People's Party of doing - and I read textually - criminal politics with dependence. That's what you said. And I ask you: would you criminalize your government's policy, with 70 000 dead, half of them in residences, and 47 000 dead on the dependency waiting list, 160 people a day, twice as much as it was just a year ago? How would you rate this policy now? How we have changed, Mr. Vice President! You talk about the shock plan for dependency, yes, with 600 million euros. I have told you that it is not ambitious and that it will not end the waiting list, but that they will not even comply with their electoral programme, in which they committed themselves to incorporating 500,000 new dependents into the dependency system and creating 400 000 jobs in the area of dependency. Of course, as Sanchez has erased the promise to create 800,000 jobs, you can erase from your election program to create 400,000 jobs in the area of dependency. What has the People's Party proposed? It proposes to incorporate amendments for an additional 600 million into the dependency, in order to ensure a decent old age for our elders. They are the protagonists in this present and in this future. I hope that you will vote on these amendments and listen more to civil society, because they have also called for it. These budgets have a clear, hidden but clear road map: the demolition of concertation, collaboration, public and private cooperation. You always talk about mistakes and mistakes. It's hard to do everything right, but doing everything wrong is even harder. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u156	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u157	Thank you, President. Vice-President, we have been experiencing a serious health, economic and social crisis for months now, and this is precisely the context in which these budgets are going to be approved. That is why our main challenge is to get out of this crisis together, as we have said on many occasions, without leaving anyone behind. But we also have budgets that look to the future, where some bases are already laid for a change of model, to move towards a new, fairer and more sustainable economic model. There are two basic conditions to which these General State Budgets undoubtedly contribute. The first is to promote a transformation of the economy that definitively abandons policies based on wage devaluation, loss of labour rights and tax privileges of large corporations. These policies, tested by the previous government, by the People's Party, have proved unsuccessful, and these budgets are moving in the opposite direction: protecting labour rights, boosting public investment and taking care of our industry. The second, specifically strengthen our social protection model, improving social services and addressing the configuration of a new care system. Here the contrast with previous budgets is also evident. Where the People's Party cut rights, these budgets make a clear commitment to strengthening rights, to strengthening public services. It seems a lie, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you forget that you were the cause of the last great crisis, that of 2008, and that your austerid policies have prevented you from getting out of this crisis. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: My mother!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u158	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u159	And they've left a rachy state of well-being. A little caradure. Today we are not only discussing budget items, we are not only talking about expenditure and revenue, big figures, today what we are really talking about is giving citizens more security and more certainty, and these budgets have the key. We want to build a caring country, a country capable of ending the fear and the vital anguish that you have caused. We want to build a society where the elderly enjoy in the last stage of their life with autonomy, dignity and with all - all - their rights and where the people who care for them can also take care of them in appropriate conditions; where no one - no one - dies in this country again without receiving the help of dependence that he had already granted; where no one is abandoned to his fate when he loses his job or when he has to close the blind of a small business or when he does not have sufficient financial resources to pay at the end of the month the rent; where all people who are affected by any disability can go to school, take a bus, take a train or access a decent job; where unaccompanied migrant children are treated as they are, children who must be protected and cared for. Well, for all these powerful reasons, the budgets contain measures that I am going to explain very briefly. They contain a dependency shock plan that will contribute to the reduction of waiting lists, which increases the state's contribution by 46% more. A long-term care investment plan to improve care for older people; we are going to walk towards the transit of a different residential model, focused on care for people. We will strengthen the concerted social services plan: the state will contribute 150% more. There will also be a plan to modernize social services, through innovation and the improvement of the training of its professionals. Also an investment plan to advance the universal accessibility of persons with disabilities in different areas: education, employment and transport. This is all going to be in these budgets. There is no need to explain much more to understand that these contents that I have just quoted are at the heart of our model of state, they are anchored in the best tradition of the model of social state proclaimed in article 1.1 of the Constitution, but at the same time these budgets look to the future, being very aware of the new challenges to be faced, the new risks and the new vulnerabilities peculiar to the twenty-first century. These budgets make the common thing bigger, they run away and reject charity and assistanceism, and they strengthen rights. They advance towards the demercantilization and defamiliarization of our care system, betting on a system of public social protection, of quality and universal. As Nancy Fraser would say, let us hope that very soon it will be an emancipating social protection system, that it will end the domination relations that still exist and that it will empower all people. I have already finished with a sentence we said in the 15-M, which the vice president will surely know and which I hope he will listen well to the bench of the People's Party and the right: Let's go slow, because we are going very, very far. Eskerrik asko. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u161	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Churches, I am going to address you personally because you are the Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, you are the holder of a ministry that was expressly created for you, a ministry that did not exist, that does not exist in any country of ours, a ministry made to your measure, because you had to become the guru of social rights and sustainable development, the bulwark of the unprotected and vulnerable. You, Mr. Iglesias, came to save people, and in your delusion of greatness you wanted a ministry only for you in which you could show up and give rein to your dreams. And they gave you nothing less than a ministry to defend social rights and, in passing, the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, so that you could enter the UN through the big door You asked for the moon, Mr. Iglesias, and they gave it to you, but your whim is going to come out very dearly to the Spaniards, because this ministry which is supposed to assume part of the competences of the former Ministry of Health, in addition to the competences of sustainable development of the 2030 Agenda, which was formerly the President's, has a budget of 3836 million euros, a budget greater than that which has been allocated to the Ministry of Health, which is 3421 million, a budget which doubles the expenditure and which allocates more than 20 million euros only to staff. [[applause]] And the question of the million is what this ministry is for and whether it is justified to exist for anything more than to make you a tailor-made suit. This ministry should serve to guarantee what we all understand to be the social rights of citizens: the right to employment, the right to social protection, the right to housing, the right to education, the right to health, the right to food and, however, this ministry is not guaranteeing the right to employment of Spanish citizens, of course not that of self-employed or small entrepreneurs. This ministry is not guaranteeing social protection because today there are more unprotected citizens than ever before and because those who were habitually having a bad time have been added to the new poor that you do not see and because you are not even a co-proponent of the creation and regulation of minimum living income has managed to get this help to all those who really need it. Nor are you defending the right to housing, Mr. Iglesias. You are neglecting the thousands of families who can no longer pay rent and still do not choose to attack the private property of others. They do not defend the right to education, because education is not protected by a law that seeks to force parents to pay for what they are entitled to receive free of charge in the concerted school and special education schools. Nor are you guaranteeing everyone's right to health, of course not that of many of our elders who depended on this ministry, on your ministry and who died in their homes without receiving hospital assistance. [[Applauds]] Nor, ladies and gentlemen, that of our terminally ill, who do not have the palliative care they need. And, of course, I do not believe that they are defending the right to food, there being, as there are, thousands of families who have been lining up at the door of social eateries and parishes to receive food for months. So, what is the use of this ministry, Mr. Churches? Whose social rights do you defend? You ensure that with this budget you will implement social welfare policies for families and have created a General Directorate of Family Diversity, to which you allocate 284 million euros, but we already know that they are not to help all families. Therefore, on the one hand, they want to pay special attention to single-parent families, but, at the same time, they don't dedicate a single euro to helping single mothers who don't want to abort and who need help bringing their children into the world. [[Applauds]] And that is why they do not invest a single euro in promoting birth and promoting national or international adoption. You talk about protecting children and adolescents, but you dedicate 30 million to the Directorate-General for Children's and Adolescents' Rights and almost the same 27 million euros, to unaccompanied minors from Ceuta and Melilla. And of your policies for the protection of persons with disabilities we do not speak, Mr Iglesias: only EUR 8 million, not even twice as much as what you are devoting to protecting the rights of animals, as has already been said here, to what they allocate EUR 4.5 million. I do not know if you believe that the aid that disabled people receive is fair and dignified, but it must seem to you that it is when they do not grow in these budgets, when they do not write a euro for those parents who want to bring their children with disabilities to the world, but they do not have the means to face such a challenge, when there is not even money for integration into schools of pupils with special educational needs, those pupils whom you intend to force to study in ordinary school. In the 2019 budgets there was 1 million euros for integration that is no longer there. Where is he? Is that your way of protecting people, families and people with special needs? [[Applauds]] But we also do not know what the majority of expenditure items are for, for example, the EUR 26 million that they transfer to activities of general interest considered to be of social interest, because the third sector, Mr. Iglesias, is also not free from the ideologization of its ministry. We have already seen with his royal decree who most of them deserve the help of his ministry: the women's associations, those of migrants, those of leftist political groups, when in a situation such as that in which we live the social, the charitable thing would be that we would have considerably increased the departures to Caritas, the Red Cross or the Federation of Food Banks and that we would have left out the associations for exclusively ideological purposes and, therefore, less necessary. Mr Iglesias, you are also responsible for the proposals that we must present to the UN to meet the seventeen objectives of the 2030 Agenda and it turns out that what we are going to do is spend almost EUR 5 million on advertising and propaganda, that we are going to spend something more than EUR 1 million on technical work, that we are going to distribute EUR 10 million between municipalities and social movements for the impulse of the agenda and another EUR 5 million for support for artistic production and alignment with the 2030 Agenda; everything is very sustainable and very resilient, Mr Iglesias. Between the cost of his ministry and the cost of the UN - 6 billion dollars, of which 2437 go on wages - we must see how expensive it is to put an end to poverty! How many citizens have run out of anything, how many self-employed and entrepreneurs, how many of our families could get through with all that money. You tell me, Mr. Iglesias, you, that it is the scourge of caste and the expert in unprotected and vulnerable. 75% of the budget for this government's expenses, including those of his ministry, comes out of our pockets; and also out of the pockets of the self-employed and entrepreneurs ruined by this crisis, who continue to be forced to pay taxes; and out of the pensioners and their few contributory pensions. So we are not for budgets of ministries of ideologicalized postureans created exclusively to define prefabricated political strategies and to develop projects that cost us billions of euros, that always stay in the way and never reach the hands of those who need it most. No, ladies and gentlemen, definitely not to budgets that waste the money of all the Spaniards, when all we need now and urgently is to rescue our compatriots...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u162	Mrs. Ruiz, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u163	...and their families from the disaster in which he has plunged us. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs Guerra López has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u165	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the right and right, you can look at it from the right or the reverse, you can give it all the turns you want, or if you want you can continue to repeat the fake news José María Aznar gives you from FAES, but the truth is that we are facing unprecedented budgets in the history of Spain, exceptional budgets for an exceptional situation. [[Applauds]] But above all, budgets consistent with the values - yes, ladies and gentlemen - of a left-wing government, a government of progress, of a government that places people and their needs at the centre of the political agenda. And it is that this government, ladies and gentlemen, is coherent. Oh, the coherence! A value that in some rows is scarce because, I recognize, it must not be easy to share the photo of Columbus - by the way, make space that the lordships of Citizens return - with those who claim Franco, with those who deny the macho violence and with those who call Paguita the minimum income vital. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] It must not be easy then to climb here, to the atril, and make a postulate of populist defense of social policies. But we and we, ladies and gentlemen, are consistent, and that is why we are presenting today general state budgets that are completely in agreement with the political forces that make up this government, because there is no instrument more important, more political and more ideological than budgets. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the right and the right, ideological. The budgets indicate the priorities of the Government and these budgets mark a point and end to the austerid policies of the People's Party. A point and end to the neoliberal policies of the People's Party. And a final point to the budgets of Montoro and Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Because if something characterizes their budgets, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is that they retreat; they retreat into rights and freedoms; they retreat and impoverish the working classes and the popular classes while enriching the powerful and the rich. On the other hand, the budgets presented today by this Government are moving forward; they are moving towards new rights and freedoms for citizens; they are moving towards economic and social recovery; and they are moving towards the consolidation of that social State, which advocates article 1 of our Constitution. And that, in the face of so much uncertainty, you must recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that it gives some peace of mind. The tranquillity of knowing yourself in good hands. The tranquillity of knowing that there is a social state that takes care of you and protects you from the adversities of life. The tranquillity of being faced with budgets that breathe social protection, promotion of personal autonomy, attention to dependence, fight against child poverty. The tranquillity of knowing that you are facing budgets that breathe and sweat equal opportunities and social justice. [[Applauds]] And this parliamentary group does not say that, ladies and gentlemen, it whispers, it tells, it shouts at each of the budget headings of these General State Budgets. Dependent care leave, 46 per cent increase; child poverty leave, 59 per cent increase; social leave leave, 70 per cent increase. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let it be, cuts are incompatible with the welfare state, it is a fact, it is a reality and it is a lesson that we must never forget. By the way, if the cuts are incompatible with the welfare state, it will turn out that the welfare state is incompatible with you. [[Applauds]] There is no doubt that the Government clearly has its priorities: the prevention and fight against poverty and social exclusion. Look, I'm going to give you three data and three government presidents: 90 million euros, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero; 40 million euros, Mariano Rajoy; 100 million euros, Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] And we must add EUR 1 million for the development plan of the Gypsy people, an increase of EUR 4 million for higher education for people with disabilities, EUR 25 million for universal accessibility for people with disabilities and more than EUR 177 million for the modernisation of social services. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not tire of repeating this, social services are not defended only when elections are lost, social services are not defended only when they are in opposition, social services are defended, especially when they are governed, placing people and their needs at the centre of the political agenda and prioritising them in the budget. [[Applauds]] With these budgets, ladies and gentlemen, we reinvigorate the public system of care for dependency. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have recovered the agreed level and the increase in the minimum level amounts. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 235 000 people with a recognised degree of dependence that the People's Party left in the eternal limbo of waiting lists regain their right to be cared for and yes, ladies and gentlemen, 19 billion euros will recover the autonomous communities, 19 billion euros that you, the People's Party, stopped transferring from 2012 to 2018. Finally, I would like to remind you that this government will prioritise attention to dependence also through European funds. There will be long-term care, at the heart of the strategy and at the heart of our country's economic recovery. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, stop being the right coward of the far right, stop cheating, look in the mirror and dare to tell the truth: that after looking at these budgets in detail they find no justification for saying no. [[applause]] Say it because the citizens who vote for them will understand it. Please acknowledge this because, honestly, I do not know your neighbours and neighbours, but I assure you that my own, from Sant Boi de Llobregat and from the red belt of Barcelona, would never understand that the Socialist Parliamentary Group would not vote in favour of these budgets. [[A honourable Member: That's all right!-Rumors]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u166	Thank you, Mrs. War. We move on to the debate in section 30, Ministry of Equality. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Equality. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Minister...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please respect me. I repeat, please, I ask respect if it is not for the minister at least for this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u167	Very good afternoon to all your lordships. It is an honour for me to appear today in this House and to do so to report on section 30 of the State's General Budgets, which corresponds to the Ministry of Equality; and it is an honour to do so, in spite of what the People's Party has to do with a feminist proposal, with a solid proposal, designed to promote the closing of the gender gap that exists in our society, modifying its deepest patriarchal structures, promoting the sharing of wealth, time, care and combating all forms of violence against women. Before I continue, I would like to recall that tomorrow is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and they will allow me to launch a clear message of commitment from all our institutions to all persons with disabilities, particularly women with disabilities. It is our obligation to turn your needs into rights, not only because it is a historical debt that feminism has with you, but because it is - as I said - an obligation that as a State we must fulfil without further delay. I also take this opportunity to reaffirm the commitment of this Government, which is also a commitment of the General Courts, to the definitive ban on forced sterilization in Spain, voted in the Senate this morning. Forced sterilization is one of the most normalized violence against women worldwide and our democracy is best with its definitive ban. [[Applauds]] As I said, I am presenting these budgets for the year 2021 on equality and I am very proud of it in a House which consolidates a majority feminist alliance, a parliamentary bloc that works decisively for feminism and, therefore, for equality in our country. With these accounts we broke with the dogmas of the 2008 crisis and reversed priorities, neither austerity nor cuts nor privatizations. What Spain, its society and its economy need, what the people of our country need is to reduce the social gap, to reduce the inequalities generated and exacerbated in the last decade, to profoundly transform our economy, to strengthen public services to unburden the weight of women's shoulders and bodies and to leave to the next generations a more just, more sustainable and more feminist society and economy. The data speak for themselves. Social service allocations are growing by more than 70 per cent, this Government is committed to consolidating the fourth pillar of the welfare state, with more attention to dependency, children and adolescents or child poverty, all of which will strengthen a system of public care and will prevent the burden of care and care for the most vulnerable from falling on mothers, grandmothers and precarious professional women. There is also the largest share for scholarships: EUR 2090 million, plus EUR 514 million. Scholarships for the study are a fundamental mechanism for equal opportunities and the elimination of gender barriers in higher education, and show a greater impact among women who access university studies. Health policy is also very important, which will have to strengthen our public health, and particularly health groups, especially women. The unemployment policy will have an additional 4191 million; as you know, according to the latest EPA, women account for 52% of the unemployed in the third quarter of the year, compared to 48% of men. Women are the most punished for the economic effects of the health emergency, as they are the collective that mostly sustains areas such as hospitality, tourism or trade. In short, these are not more budgets, they are budgets to solve the main problems our society has, they are budgets to transform the country from social justice and from feminism. They are, moreover, courageous accounts that dare to tackle and tackle some of the large outstanding debts that this country has, but not with the vulture funds or with the large speculative financial institutions, but with the people and particularly with the women of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the section for the Ministry of Equality increases its budget by 157% by 2021 to EUR 451.42 million, EUR 275.89 million more than in the previous budget. We also warmly welcome the fact that, thanks to the push of the feminist movement and the work of the parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos and Socialists, we will see an increase of 20 million more for the fight against the violence of machoism from the local entities. The increase in this section translates into three fundamental axes of action: the first, equality between men and women; the second, the fight against sexist violence; and the third, the protection of diversity or ethnic-racial discrimination, or on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity. With regard to the first axis of action, equality between men and women, the work of the Women's Institute in relation to equality in employment, gender mainstreaming in public policies, feminist research, the impetus to the associative movement or the fight against the educational gap in scientific and technical professions, for naming only some of its most relevant dedications. It is also embodied in a public policy of co-responsibility that families, and particularly women, need in terms of reconciliation and care for children, aggravated - as you well know - by the enormous difficulties resulting from the pandemic faced by women who are, above all, the caretakers. To this end, we have a budget of EUR 200 million, earmarked for what we have called the Correspondent Plan. It will be a new public policy that seeks to guarantee the right to care in Spain, care as a right, and that we understand as a seed policy, as a first step on the road to the construction of a state care system. With these General State Budgets, public policies no longer turn their backs on the entire area of the reproductive economy, which has, so far, always remained blind to public policies in our country. The care crisis, diagnosed by the feminist economy in a remarkable way since the 2008 economic crisis, has intensified in our country due to the health emergency, which has also highlighted the essential importance of care work that has historically fallen on women in an invisible and precarious manner. As expressed in the Reconstruction Commission, it was therefore essential to start the path towards a rethinking of the system that would entail structural change in order to prioritize the sustainability of life, our reality as interdependent human beings, which we need each other, and the binding role that the State must assume as guarantor of dignified care. In this sense, the Correspondent Plan aims to establish mechanisms and lines of action that guarantee the right to care in Spain, and we also aim to do so from a feminist perspective, understanding that the distribution of care is a task and a necessity of first order for women, because, if we do not close the care gap, it will be impossible to achieve full equality between women and men. It seems to us very important to note that, from the Ministry of Equality, we aspire to design the various lines of action to deploy the Co-responsible Plan side by side, with the autonomous communities, with the local entities, over all the autonomous communities, which will be responsible for their management. The guidelines that the Ministry of Equality will propose for the implementation of this Co-responsible Plan include facilitating the reconciliation of personal, family and work life, as provided for in the Equality Act in its article 44, contributing to a more balanced sharing of care responsibilities within families, but especially between families and public administrations; creating employment in the ways that we can agree with the autonomous communities, but which we aim to enable them to move in the public and public-social spheres, and the dignity of care work, in addition to the certification of experience and professional capacity in the field of care, especially for women, who have spent many years of their lives in non-professional care. In addition, awareness of co-responsibility will also be a priority. Since this plan is the most important development in this section, I should like to point out that the promotion of equality continues to count on the indispensable programmes and work carried out by the Women's Institute, whose name, also thanks to these General State Budgets, will become the Women's Institute. The change of name, although it may seem to them somewhat secondary, is important to us and is a historical demand that these budgets finally come to meet. This plural symbolizes the plurality and diversity of women in this country and captures the advances and changes in feminist reflection, which take us away from a unique idea of women as a unique and almost unknown category, to bet on a strong and express recognition of what we are, more than half of the population, more than half of the citizenry. By 2021, this historic and indispensable equality body in Spain maintains its level of mobilization of resources for the development of the policies it has entrusted, some of which detailed them previously. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you about our second axis of action, the fight against machist violence, reflected in particular in programme 232.C, actions for the comprehensive prevention of gender-based violence; and also in 230.A, within the Mechanism for Recovery and Resilience. First, I would like to point out to you that stepping up efforts to combat macho violence is a central objective of this Ministry of Equality and of the Government as a whole, paying particular attention to the terrible consequences that the pandemic has had on women victims of such violence. That is why today we can point out that, with the approval of these budgets, we will have reached the highest figure that Spain has ever invested in the fight against macho violence. As we have discussed on other occasions, the pandemic has created a new and unexpected global context with devastating effects for women, including their children, and the response to the emergency by COVID-19 worldwide and specifically in Spain has placed women victims of gender-based violence in a new scenario of vulnerability compounded by the containment measures that have facilitated aggressors to exercise silent, controllable violence and also with more impunity. Restrictions on freedom of movement or the impossibility and difficulty in accessibility and also in the presence of certain central institutions for the accompaniment to these women, as may be the courts, have made it difficult to break the silence and decision-making of women, as has been observed in the increase in calls and in requests for help received in the 016 service during the period of the state of alarm. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, our proposals on violence against women are particularly endorsed and accompanied this time by the 2019 macro-survey. As you will recall, the data he has revealed is simply frightening: one in two women has suffered some kind of macho violence in our country, including, as I say, all forms of macho violence, which go beyond what happens in the context of the couple or the ex-partner. The photograph of the macro-survey, in addition to the international standards to which our country owes itself in this area and also to what has been established by its ladies and gentlemen in the State Pact against Gender Violence adopted in the General Courts, obliges us to take great steps in designing policies to combat gender-based violence. Our commitment, therefore, must be to go beyond violence against women within the framework of the partner or ex-partner. All sexist violence requires assistance, protection and also reparation. Our aim is, therefore, to expand and consolidate comprehensive care and prevention of all forms of violence against women, not only those occurring in the context of the partner or ex-partner. Let all women know that they are not alone and that there are wide and sufficient gates of entry to be believed by all State institutions and to be accompanied in their process of exiting violence and of redressing the damage caused. To that end, we are promoting essential legislative advances, such as the Law on the Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom or the Comprehensive Law against Trafficking, and we also believe that policies against sexist violence need a definitive impetus to be institutionalized, that is, so that all competent administrations and institutions at any level of the Administration know what practices, concrete measures, concrete policies should be promoted and promoted to prevent and eradicate violence against women. These General State Budgets include the tools to accompany these legislative and institutional efforts to combat sexist violence in the economic sphere, to fulfil all obligations for all women and to deal with all violence. In this regard, it is very good news that the budget for the fight against gender-based violence amounts to EUR 278 million, thus exceeding the EUR 200 million committed in the economic commitments of the opinion of the State Pact against Gender-based Violence. As I was telling you, there have never been so many resources invested to eradicate violence against women, ever. These are certainly also anti-machism budgets. With regard to the State Pact, the amount corresponding to the Ministry of Equality will finally amount to 200 million euros, thanks to the work of its ladies and gentlemen, and we will also have another 20 million euros for the fight against violence against women, which is part of the budget headings in the Ministries of Justice, Health, the Interior or Labour and the Social Economy. As reflected in the State's General Budgets, 100 million will be transferred to the autonomous communities regarding compliance with the State Pact, 40 million to local entities in the same sense, and the Government's delegation against Gender Violence will be increased to 60 million euros. I would like to pause for a moment to point out that they will have noticed that not all transfers to the autonomous communities of the State Pact are in the same chapter this time. This time 90 million are distributed in Chapter 4 and 10 million in Chapter 6. With this division we fulfil the commitment made by this ministry, by this Government, within the framework of the sectoral conference, a traditional demand by the autonomous communities to be able to dispose of part of these funds for permanent material investments. We trust that this step will be a step forward in further improving good practices resulting from the implementation of the State Pact against Gender Violence by all administrations. [[The Lord]] On the other hand, the Ministry of Equality also presents a project within the Mechanism for Recovery and Resilience: the Plan Spain protects you against macho violence, whose budget line amounts to €48 million in 2021. Under the same mechanism and in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour, we will develop a national plan for the social and labour integration of victims of trafficking, sexual exploitation and women in prostitution. It is a project worth EUR 10 million. I would like to give you some details of the main and most innovative projects to be carried out on this axis. First, the National Strategy for the Eradication of Machist Violence 20212025. This is a new investment project with a budget of more than €4 million, with which we will promote measures to eradicate all forms of violence against women and with which support for victims will be strengthened through the adoption of a comprehensive plan for the compensation, reparation and recovery of autonomy for women who suffer or have suffered any form of macho violence. The strategy is the public policy that will allow us to strengthen and complement the state pact, incorporating measures not present in the pact, such as addressing violence in networks, symbolic violence, all sexual violence, measures to work with children, young people and men, or preventing violence in public spaces or leisure spaces. This strategy will also enable us to implement Spain's responsibilities under the Istanbul Convention and the European Strategy for Gender Equality 20202025. Secondly, a macro-study on trafficking in women and girls. As you know, trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation of women and girls is one of the most cruel and violent forms of macho violence and, therefore, the Government considers it essential to recognize and identify the prevalence of this violence and also how many girls and women suffer it in our country through a macro-study that can rigorously show the situation of women and girls who have been trafficked for all their purposes - sexual exploitation is the majority, but not the only one that has a marked gender character - as well as the identification of the route of criminal networks. During the state of alarm between March and June 2020, the Ministry of Equality for the first time promoted social and health accreditation for women victims of this form of sexist violence so that they could have access to their rights, whatever their situation, whatever their administrative situation. We need to have a better picture of what is happening in our country with trafficking and sexual exploitation so that we can fine-tune the instruments that institutions develop and put at the service of these women so that we can help them. Thirdly, the Plan Spain protects you against macho violence, with a budget impact of 48.5 million euros, as I told you before. As I pointed out to them, the health crisis caused by COVID19 had a significant impact on the prevalence of violence against women, which caused specific measures to be taken in this area. In particular, as you know, the contingency plan for victims of gender-based violence, victims of trafficking, sexual exploitation and women in prostitution, through which, among other measures, we declare essential services for the care of victims of gender-based violence, thus ensuring their provision and the safety of the workers who provide them. This socio-sanitary accreditation was also implemented for women victims of trafficking, sexual exploitation and women in prostitution contexts indicated above. The plan - and, specifically, some of the measures envisaged in it - has received congratulations from different international human rights agencies such as the United Nations, UN Women or the Council of Europe, including it as an example of good practices carried out during the COVID pandemic19. The functioning of these services sheds light on the increase in violence in the exceptional context of the pandemic and, for example, the data on information, counselling, care and protection of victims and the management of these services carried out directly by the Ministry of Equality verify the need to further strengthen and improve their functioning as an undoubted alternative to the needs of women and to extend all these resources to all forms of violence against women and not exclusively to intimate partner violence, which has traditionally focused the resources of the Ministry of Equality. The implementation of the measures of the contingency plan also revealed a strong digital gap in the current services that was clearly increased in the face of the restriction of movements foreseen by the state of alarm and, therefore, in order to close both gaps and to predict the resilience of comprehensive care services in the face of future crises, the Plan Spain protects you against macho violence, with the aim of extending and making accessible to all potential victims of all forms of violence against women comprehensive care services. With the funds earmarked for this purpose, the Autonomous Communities will be able to set up the comprehensive care centres 24 hours for victims of sexual violence provided for in the Law on Comprehensive Guarantee of Sexual Freedom. It will also allow us to expand and modernize service 016, adding to the services that already provide an instant messaging service on a permanent basis - as you know, the instant messaging service was something of its own and focused on the state of alarm and we want it to become something permanent - as well as psychological care and emotional containment, socio-labor advice to the victims and monitoring them. An important item is also planned to modernize and improve the care and protection of victims, both the Atenpro service and the so-called bracelets, so that they are more accessible and modern, and can be used by all victims of all forms of violence against women. With this plan, Spain protects you against sexist violence, we will be ready to double the phone and online consultations that are made through 016, including socio-laboral and psychological care; we will be able to reach the 120,000 relevant consultations per year in this service; we will increase the Atenpro care service by more than 30,000 users per year, and we intend to reach the 4000 new annual devices to control the protection measures for women victims. With this plan, we also aspire to the construction of more than fifty comprehensive care centres 24 hours for victims of sexual violence throughout Spain, which will allow us to care for the more than three hundred thousand women who, according to the macro-survey, have suffered some kind of sexual violence only in the last year. With this plan we will fulfil all our obligations for all victims of all violence. Spain will not take a step back against machismo. Finally, this budget sets out the material reality of the Directorates-General for Equal Treatment and Ethnic Diversity, as well as the Directorate for Sexual Diversity and Rights (LGTBI), two management centres of vital importance to this ministry, in a context in which hate speech for racial, sexual orientation and gender identity is increasing in our country and in a global context of the rise of extreme rights. As you know, our commitment to equality is firm, and this will also be reflected in the various rules in this area, which we hope can be adopted next year. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to conclude this statement by reiterating the feminist commitment of this government, which I know is also that of the majority of this House. The commitments serve when accompanied by economic resources, as the feminist movement has always told us very clearly. We know that without that economic commitment, equality policies remain mere declarations of intent. Feminism has been pointing out for decades the crisis of care and the need to distribute wealth, time and care to eradicate inequalities between women and men. Feminism is also responsible for the mobilization that led this House to draft the State Pact against Gender Violence. The Ministry of Equality and the Government of Spain take care of this feminist agenda, which is historic, while radically current and essential for our present and also for tomorrow. We believe that these budgets express our commitment to this agenda, because the bulk of the allocation of this department has to do with the impact, with the real policy, with the coordination between administrations in order to fight against the macho violence and to promote real reconciliation and co-responsibility in the distribution of care. This budget is going to strengthen this scenario of coordinated, collaborative governance between administrations, and I think that is essential, and I want to thank you here today, because it is an added challenge, but at the same time it is the best mechanism we have for making public policies that achieve equality. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank today, and with this end, the votes in favour of these accounts. These budgets are the transformation tool that Spain needs to emerge from the crisis, but also to face the immediate future with models of justice, rights and guarantees of life worthy of being lived for all and for all. These are the budgets that give continuity to the State Pact against Gender Violence, which allow us to work for equality between men and women, for equality between racialized and collective persons and LGBTI persons. It is the budgets that allow this Government to continue with a feminist agenda, essential in a modern society like ours, which aspires to build a future of social justice. I am convinced that the feminist majority I am talking to today will prevail throughout the entire legislature and will be the one that will allow the greatest and best progress that our society has been demanding for many years on the streets. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Equality, Spain is no longer the fifth most well-being country for women. According to a recent study by Georgetown, Spain has moved from fifth place in 2018 to fifteenth place, a 10-place retreat in just two years, the two years you have been ruling, and this is not random, but we already knew it. It was during the People's Party legislature that the highest percentages of working women had been reached in Spain, the gender gap had been further reduced below the EU average and a maternity supplement had been introduced for the first time in pensions. It was also during the People's Party legislature when a historic agreement was signed: the State Pact against Gender Violence, with the consensus of almost all parties; almost all, except yours, because the extremes, Minister, always stay out of the big agreements. It happened then and would happen now, because the extremes always resemble more than they differ. And let's talk about the state pact, a state pact that they now want to renew, or replace, or complement with other strategies. No, Minister, the state pact you need is to put it in place once and for all, and more after hearing the last report of the Observatory of the General Council of the Judiciary. Of the 41 women killed in 2020, only 1 in 6 had reported. Minister, give public recognition to the magnificent work of the State Security Forces and Forces and encourage women to report. [[Applauds]] Minister, I reflect this commitment in this budget, because there are units of the UFAM in which every police officer has under his protection more than fifty women and groups in this Chamber who want to take resources away from the Civil Guard. This, this is not to want to end the macho violence. Returning to the ranking of welfare, minister, the data also gives us the reason when we tell you that you have done nothing to improve the lives of women in Spain. You are disconnected from women's problems and, in addition, you are unable to bring a single law to this House. Equality policies are necessary; just go back to the data. According to the International Monetary Fund - notes also for the negatists - the International Monetary Fund, we will take two hundred years to close the gender gap and one hundred years to close the wage gap, inequality that has been increased during the pandemic, according to data also from ClosinGap, also for the negatists, cluster formed by the main companies of this country. Do you really think that women out there are worried about whether the pink color oppresses? Spanish women are taken care of by the pink color, which takes away their sleep is the red color of the bank accounts. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, 300,000 more women have been unemployed since the beginning of the pandemic, 19,000 more than the previous month, but you are not in this. And while you lament for the unity of feminism, Mrs Montero - because you seem to have provoked a war without barracks on the left, although this unit does not matter much, because for you right-wing women we cannot be feminists; in fact, for you we are less women and we believe less in equality - while you regret for this, the women of this country cry, and cry because the minimum vital income, which had to be a social shield, has been a social scam; they cry because there are single-parent families of a mother with three children who receive 18 euros a month while they take away other aids, because they have been months of delays in maternity or widowhood pensions, and to you, who always says that this is a feminist government and that equality is cross-cutting, I will tell you what has been done in these budgets against women: veto plans of specific jobs in eminently tourist communities, sector, as you know, highly feminized; veto plans for autonomous and autonomous; veto the provision of families to single-parental families, which can be granted to single-parental families, to single-parent families; [[Applauds]] I therefore call on you to support our amendments, especially a new plan for women in rural areas, a programme for the reintegration of women into the labour market after leaving the labour market to care for minors or dependents for a long period of time, bearing in mind that 92% of the surpluses continue to be requested by women, and your support for a programme to draw up the anti-trafficking law once and for all. I conclude with the theme that will accompany you throughout the legislature, because you have decided to look elsewhere, keep an accomplice silence and ask for prudence as news continues to come that horrifies us. I read only those of the last four days, published in The World of Balearics. The left-wing pact took five months to appoint the heads of the juvenile area, despite the lack of control. I open quotes: 'There was no direction at the head of any center, the kids came in and out, which triggered the formation of a network of sexual abuse of foster children' - close quotes -, according to an internal source. On the same day, the council placed more obstacles to investigating sexual abuse of minors with the final rejection of the commission of inquiry. I open quotes: 'In November 2017 it is already known where the young people meet and there are cases of prostitution and nothing was done' - I close quotes - and they hid it. November 19: Arrested an IMAS centre educator for sexual abuse of three boys and investigates whether there are more victims. A few hours ago: PSOE, MÉS and Podemos block the commission of inquiry. Mrs. Montero, your ministry is also not that of these girls, your feminism, less. Move, move to action, stop repeating that of the faller, who causes his party and the PSOE in Baleares, and get to work. Go from the banner to the BOE, from the manifesto to the budget, so that your ministry is the true ministry of all women, not just those who think like you, vote like you and keep quiet like you. The women of Spain today, even if you have your dream ministry, we live worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u170	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u171	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are again talking about a transcendental issue such as equality, equality in a broad sense, gender equality, and also equal treatment, which sometimes seems to have it there in a picket and has a lot of social consequences, as I will try to move on. But the first thing is to make a reference to the moment we are here. Citizens have not tabled a specific amendment to this section, but we have tabled a number of proposals that have to do with the management and subject matter that falls within your ministry. With regard to the proposals we have tabled to one of the amendments, I would like to make a reflection. While it is very important that progress has been made in the economic content in the area of gender equality and budgetary content, what is vital is that these budgetary compliance measures to develop the Gender Violence Pact, that money, for practical purposes, is received by the autonomous administrations. I am saying this because if there are delays - as we are currently having in that collection of funds because the funds that the autonomous communities had for this year 2020 have not yet received them -, in the end what you are assuming is a ballast and a poor attention to people who may be victims of gender violence or a ballast to all that work that needs to be done in the prevention of gender violence. But if we talk specifically about what the scope of the implementation of the State Pact against Gender Violence means, I am surprised that they will say no again because it is Citizens who present a measure whose implementation is included in it. To what extent do I mean? To recognize the widow's pension for victims of gender-based violence who have been linked as a couple in fact to their aggressor. It is a pioneering and promoting measure on an equal footing, so much so that the Supreme Court has resolved a few weeks ago in favour of this issue. What's going on? It happens that we introduce this amendment so that this right can be recognized, which also corrects a gap of discrimination by marital status, but, as it is Citizens who present it, it is automatically said no. Is this moving forward on gender equality? No, this is sectarianism, that is to say not just because it is a certain political party that I do not like that presents a measure that in the end is to advance on gender equality, in protecting victims of gender violence. And this is one of the main measures I wanted to comment on. We are also referring to rural women, a measure which cannot be debated for the same reason, simply by vetoing the political colour. What we wanted was for the shared ownership of agricultural holdings to be promoted as a measure to promote equality between men and women in rural areas, a measure which, by the way, is also covered by the State Pact against Macho Violence. What happened? It's been vetoed. We are clear that it is important to act urgently in this area, because if something has been shown that the rules on shared ownership are not working, and many women are currently not benefiting from this. In fact, out of a million registered farms, only 6,000 have this ownership. So, what do we want? Propose a measure in the budgets themselves that will act as a lever and really become a implementation of gender equality in rural areas. What's going on? Let us be barred. What did we want? Bonuses, an increase in bonuses to those who acquire the status of agricultural self-employed under shared ownership, a very clear measure in this progress. However, I have to regret that we are again facing these kinds of vetoes, which I find very difficult to understand. We're also talking about conciliation. The corresponding plan has been presented, and the minister knows that we are in line with this pioneering plan. But what do we leave ourselves in the tinker? The current reality, which I have already highlighted on other occasions, and also proposals have been put forward. Why don't we look for a solution to the current situation that we are going through a lot of families, especially a lot of women who have children at home in preventive quarantine? What do we do with them? What can we propose? Is the pay cut? If we go deeper, we see that to a large extent it affects women with vulnerable jobs. However, we are not offering a solution, we are not responding to the current reality in the face of that need for care that many women have. Let us also talk about equal treatment, the daily discrimination that many groups in our society suffer from simply being gypsies, belonging to the LGTBI collective, being black people or having any other status. What are they up to? They face the barrier of discrimination in access to employment, in access to housing, in access to goods and services. What do we have to do? We need to transpose a 2000 Equal Treatment Directive. I know it's in the agreement, it's in the proposals, but what I want is a work schedule. For what? To correct situations of structural inequality. It seems that it is now fashionable to talk about hate crimes, hate speech, but everyday discrimination, which is not a crime, is what we have unsolved, and that is the serious problem in today's society. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, to get to work on equal treatment not only with regard to gender equality, which I am totally convinced of and in agreement with, but also with regard to those other ways which also affect a great many people. In short, the bet that will develop Citizens is the one that I have previously explained to you: we will continue to work in the field of equality with firmness, without a single step back. I will be faced with all those people who want to deny, who make negationist speeches about gender-based violence, those who do not want to recognize the problems of vulnerable groups, people and women who are experiencing situations of discrimination, and all those who want real equality will find us at their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u172	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u173	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Thank you, Minister. The Ministry of Equality has a task that is central to the situation we are living in right now, for the immediate future, to continue with the valuable legacy of full citizenship advancement for all people. There is a huge responsibility for a ministry that this country has recovered, from which every day its relevance is demonstrated, the lack it makes us, as it faces attacks that are of another time and ultimately fall on the people in the most vulnerable situation. About this ministry, section 30, goes to all worthy life. And it increases the game for this section - finally, ministry - by 157 %. These budgets advance in full citizenship for all - I insist, all - people. 'I hope, gentlemen, that you will recognize that women have their own destiny, that their first natural duties are for themselves, not relative and dependent on the moral entity and personal dignity of the family which in their day will be able to build or not to build; that their happiness and personal dignity must be the essential purpose of their culture and that, consequently, they are vested with the same right to education as men.' This is a well-known fragment - many of his lordships will have recognized it - of the great writer and thinker Emilia Pardo Bazán who pronounced in 1892 at the International Pedagogical Congress. By the way, I recommend that you go to see Emilia, directed and written by Noelia Adánez and Anna Costa and interpreted by Pilar Gómez; that you go to hear much of the wisdom and knowledge of a woman about whom, no doubt, history is still to be written in a much more just way, with her and with everything we owe her. If these words sound old, it will be because they are over a hundred years old. If I bring them here, it is because their content is still valid, perhaps not on the right to education already, but, of course, it is in order to make this happen so that the necessary care that all citizens must have their right guaranteed on the shoulders of women, especially women in the most vulnerable situation, does not continue to fall. That is why the seed policy that is in these budgets towards a national care system: the co-responsible plan. Do women live worse, Mrs. Prohens? If you are like you say, why not say no to a budget that increases its equality policies by 157 % - I say - if this really matters to your bench? Does the pay gap narrow when we have the government of Mariano de Rajoy? Let us say it all: It is shortened from the bottom, because all wages fall. It is shortened by that and women are driven out of the labour market through a labour reform that we still have to repeal in order for us to find a true citizenship and a more certain path towards it and towards democracy. These budgets make full progress in citizenship for all people. We're going to have a decent life, we're going to have a decent life. That is why the departure for the State Pact against Gender Violence amounts to 258 million, which is why 48.5 million of the European funds are allocated to the Spanish plan to protect you from the Machist violence, which is why there is a strategy for the eradication of the Machist violence 2021-2024. By the way, on what Mrs Giménez said about widow's pensions, they appear in the Sexual Freedom Act; there they will be recognised and, therefore, we will continue to make progress in this area as well. There are many things we agree on and I believe that from different strategies our commitment and that of this House is to continue to make progress in everything that seeks to defend the rights of all women. That is why we are glad that a joint amendment by the Socialist Group and the United Group is coming forward. We can increase the allocation for the state pact by 20 million, because it is the local and autonomous administrations that have the most vital task in the detection, protection and accompaniment of the victims. And about encouraging women to report, it is precisely what the State Pact report says that the status of victim does not need to be achieved in a police station. Indeed, with regard to the State Security Forces and Bodies, this Member and her group were very attentive during the drafting of the State Pact report to the claims of trade unions such as the SUP, which made it very clear to us what their needs were. That is why this Government is making progress in the implementation of the State Pact. About the victims of male violence, I'm going to ask you one thing. What's wrong with this House? This House did not take forward what had been a clear commitment for some time: the institutional declaration against Machist violence on 25 November. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you this, because it is not a rhetorical question. What is happening to this House is the ultra-indecency, oblivious and out-of-date of the ultra-right, its privileged, young and ignorant defachability, which is not going to leave us silent. [[Applauds]] Those who suffer male violence, violence for the mere fact that they are women, are not alone. There is a ministry that works with all its strength to implement the state pact and go beyond it, as we said we had to do, as the feminist movement said we had to do. And there is a large majority in this House who knows that fighting the Machist violence is defending democracy and human rights, so the ultra bench is going to be alone with its noise and they are not going to get us distracted. In the time that I have left I ask your ladies and gentlemen not to let them distract us, not to stop moving forward on what they are social consensuses, to debate from the different strategies that we have, to debate to continue to progress in improving the lives of women in the most vulnerable situation, in improving the lives of those who are the focus of hate speech, in combating discrimination for all the causes that generate it, so that what we are asking over the years is read as history, with capital letters, because it is no longer valid, because we have achieved real equality, a full democracy. Therefore, because these budgets serve to advance in citizenship, I ask you to vote in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u174	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u175	With the venom. Madam Minister, I am glad that you have come from home today, because these budgets are to cry, as the Baleares girls you have abandoned cry. [[Applauds]] The Ministry of Equality will receive 452 million euros; 452 million invested in ideology. At the time of our democracy in which the health and economic situation is more critical than ever, with thousands of dead people and millions of unemployed, you have the face of spending, for example, 221 million on an equal opportunities programme for men and women, as if in Spain there were no longer equal opportunities, and, of those 221 million, 190 go to the co-responsibility plan, with which the Government gets into our homes to tell us how we have to organize; and 180 million for gender-based violence, to abound in a law that is unfair, discriminates against man, violates fundamental rights and also does not solve anything, because it does not diminish the number of victims, not to mention the unusual investment in various organisms or to give priority to the LGTBI and trans lobbies. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the real objectives of this ministry are the demonization of man, the destruction of the family and the creation of individuals without identity, without values and without roots, so that they are puppets of the state, and all this social engineering is with public money. As they only invest in misconceptions, I will allow myself to give you some ideas of what you could do with this budget: you could feed 180,000 babies in one year; you could buy 1 billion masks, 28 for each Spanish; you could pay pensions of 38,000 older for one year. I don't think you'll listen to my advice, because the real problems of the Spaniards sound as far away as they do to your Bildu partners, respect for life. [[Applauds]] This ministry only serves to place people without office or benefit, such as the Minister of Equality, recycled in official complaint. This ministry also serves to invent collectives, to victimize them, to tell them that they lead their entire lives oppressed and abused and that you are going to save them. And the poor of whom he disagrees, as is the case with VOX: you are already in charge of demonizing us and who knows when to illegalize us for that totalitarian invention called the crime of hatred, which is but an excuse to silence those we think differently from you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Communist Government, with this EUR 452 million, could you explain to me whether they are going to go against all - I repeat, all - the herds that attack sexually or only against those that serve their political interests? How are they going to protect homosexuals who suffer violence from their partners? Are you going to protect the men? Or the kids? What is the ministry going to do with rapists coming out of jail to reoffend? I'll tell you what, they're not gonna do anything. You're hypocrites. Less feminist tears, Minister, and more respect for the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] We reject these budgets because this ministry is the executing arm of this government's ideological totalitarianism, because these 452 million are going to be devoted to propaganda and indoctrination about feminism, gender ideology and abortion; an indoctrination that corrupts our children and their sexuality, which violates fundamental rights, such as the presumption of innocence and equality before the law, and basic civil liberties, such as freedom of education, expression and conscience. We reject these budgets because that money is going to stop their chiringuitos, because while thousands of Spaniards do not arrive at the end of the month you spend your money to say that pink oppresses us, because while thousands of Spaniards are in the queues of hunger you spend your money on doing studies on non-binary people. It's hard work, ladies and gentlemen! We reject these budgets because they seek to condemn half the population when a woman accuses them without evidence. We reject them because we do not want privileges for anyone, neither for men nor women, nor for whites or blacks, nor for gays or straights. We reject them because we believe that the woman has the right to decide on her own body, but not on the body of another, and less if it is her own child. I do not want to stop addressing the bench on the right, although you are more of a centre, gentlemen of the People's Party. You can hire cops and put them offices in Genoa to attack and slander VOX, you can send your dogs to prey on social networks to say that in VOX we are vague because we have tabled amendment to the whole, you can boast and wear a thousand medals for having submitted a thousand amendments, but the reality is that you are accomplices to this demeanor. You, assuming the discourse of the left, of feminism and of the aberration of gender ideology, are, in addition to the lapdogs of the left, collaborators of indoctrination to children and the violation of fundamental rights. [[applause]] As many amendments as you make, ladies and gentlemen, you are complicit. The Ministry of Equality must disappear, because it is an infected breeding ground of false rights that only creates inequality, hatred and totalitarianism, because inequality before the law or ending the lives of the weakest will never be progress or social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to fight for the rights of women who are not as lucky as we are because they are born in countries whose religion considers them inferior, I ask you to fight for the rights of people whose sexual orientation in your countries is a death sentence; to fight for the right to life and for the inherent dignity of every human being, regardless of age, size, colour, sex or sexual orientation; to fight for the equality of all Spaniards, and above all to fight for the freedom to express and defend our values without censorship, without fear of anything or anyone. [[Applauds]] Gender ideology is the cultural battle of our time and this ministry will feed it with 452 million euros in order to corrupt human nature and perpetuate itself in power. Ladies and gentlemen, today I ask you to accompany VOX so that this money is invested in the opposite and we build a more just and free society, where truth, goodness and beauty prevail. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u176	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Berja Vega has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u177	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what a shame it is for you not to rule Spain! Accept that more than a year ago they lost the elections and that the Spanish and Spanish put them in the opposition. Accept it now. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me do a brief exercise of justice before I begin my speech. I want to recognize from this rostrum the courage of Paula Dapena, a Galician footballer. [[Applauds]] Thank you, Paula, for representing us to so many women that we think that sexists and abusers don't stop being so good at playing football. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are feminist budgets. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the budgets that Spain needs are feminists. Women and men don't start from the same point, no. Structural inequality condemns women to more precariousness, less opportunities and violence. For socialists, the feminist agenda is a political priority. That is why we are grateful for the Government of Spain's public investment in equality. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for these budgets. Does anyone in this Chamber believe that one more day can be expected to combat the levels of unemployment and precariousness suffered by women? Can't wait, this is the time. Does anyone think that even one more day can be expected for maternity and paternity leave to be equal? You don't have to wait, this is the time. Is there anyone who thinks that you can wait not one more day for the games to be increased to fight the macho violence? Can't wait, this is the time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish cannot wait for the People's Party or Citizens, they cannot wait for you to convince each other. This is the moment of these budgets and it is the time to start a reconstruction with feminist limbs, with different limbs, with a new social contract, but a feminist social contract. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, you, who so much call the Constitution, support these budgets which exemplify the most social part of our Constitution, especially with regard to articles 14 and 9.2. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, speak of the Constitution in vain. Ladies and gentlemen, the machismo pandemic is earlier than that of COVID. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, what you do, which is machismo, is even prior to COVID, and these budgets fight both viruses, the virus of the Pandemic of COVID and the virus of machismo. I belong to a party, the Socialist Party, which has collected feminist demands and transferred them to the BOE. This budget law promotes co-responsibility, complies with the State Pact against Gender Violence and makes the Ministry of Equality the second largest department. By the way, I want to highlight the Socialist and United Nations amendment. We can open a line of funding for organisations working for equality between women and men. Ladies and gentlemen, let us finance the projects of the feminist movement, it is a democratic duty to do so. They are not chiringuitos; the feminist movement and feminist organizations are driving social transformation in this country, that is feminist organizations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Minister, one in two women has suffered male violence, the wage gap in Spain stands at around 22%, we have more precarious, unsteady jobs. Let us give priority in our agenda to women. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u178	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Guinart Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u179	Thank you, President. First of all, my emotional memory and my condolences for the 1074 women victims and 37 minors killed. It goes for them and also for all those who don't get into that statistic. Not one more! [[Applauds]] The Government's commitment to the fight against macho violence is firm, unbridled. It is by conviction and it is by consistency, and it is demonstrated by facts, such as the increase in allocations in these budgets compared to those still in force, an increase already in entry was 44% and rising even further after the addition of another 20 million euros to the municipalities so that they can improve prevention and assistance to victims from nearness. That's twice as much as it's set out in the state pact. And it's not the only increase. In fact, the majority of budget allocations for combating gender-based violence are increasing. And yes, Mrs Prohens, these accounts bear witness to the transversal nature of that commitment to defeat criminal machismo. Not only in the Ministry of Equality, but in others such as Justice, Foreign or Interior, we find parties and legislative action that reflect that determination. Let's face it, I share that when you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, presented the budgets in 2018 and we had to force you to comply with what we had approved months before, you too, within the framework of the state pact! In the budgets of this Government, on the other hand, there is more provision to raise awareness and prevent macho violence, more provision for the 016 information service, a service that has been crucial in the months of confinement. From here I applaud and thank the workers of 016, who have made a great effort at very hard, very difficult times and who day after day demonstrate their professionalism and great humanity. [[Applauds]] We find in these accounts an increase in transfers to autonomous communities for comprehensive social assistance, programmes aimed at children who are victims of gender-based violence, not to mention policies against trafficking in women, girls who are victims of sexual exploitation, victims of sexual violence, in part from those European Recovery and Resilience Funds. Fortunately, the reluctance of the People's Group to sit down and discuss the state pact, to equip it and to develop it remained behind. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now in the opposition, but the victims continue to need all political forces to stand by you. Get away from the negationists of VOX, to whom I tell you, by the way, that negationist noise is not going to cloud our commitment. In the Socialist Group and in this Government we are very clear that this is a state policy, a democratic duty. It is about defending human rights, defending democracy. And as the longing Carmen Chacón said, machismo is still alive and we must defend the conquests on equal terms and continue to demand real equality. Thank you. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u180	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We move on to the debate in section 31, Ministry of Consumer Affairs. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon to all your lordships. It is a pleasure to come up to this rostrum in order to be able to defend a part of these General Budgets of the State, which are those that need Spain at the moment; which are expansive budgets, in economic terms; which contribute to the deployment of the social shield; which allow us to open the way for the reindustrialization of our productive system, and which, above all, they do is to protect working families. And what belongs to me today is to defend the lines of public policy of my ministry, of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which is the ministry I represent, and which already has a mandate in the Spanish Constitution, in its article 51. Article 51 of our Constitution states that the public authorities must ensure the rights of the consumer, they must ensure the protection of these legitimate commercial rights, but also for the safety and, of course, the health of the consumer. All of us, and we, who are here today in this Chamber, are consumers at some point in our daily lives and are therefore the whole of the Spanish population. But it is important not to see the action of consumption as a technical action, devoid of any other relevant aspect of social life. On the contrary, the act of consuming is a social relationship and, therefore, it is not a neutral act nor is it a symmetrical act, it is not done by everyone alike and it has no aseptic implications in relation, for example, to our planet. That is why this ministry, which is partly crystallizing that constitutional mandate for the first time in the history of Spanish democracy, what it establishes is the defence of the rights of consumers and, also, a series of values and principles intended to protect the most precious goods, as is, of course, our planet. Therefore, the lines that mark these budgets are trying to improve the capacity of the Government to fulfil that constitutional mandate of article 51, we insist, without budget allocation. Words are words, but in order to become facts, in practical politics, a budget, economic, is required, so that it can be deployed. It is also part of the objectives of these budgets to comply with the progressive coalition agreement; some of these elements have already been made in these months that we have been going through. And it is also an end to these budgets to meet the sustainable development goals, in particular Objective 12, which refers to the system of responsible production and consumption. And they are also - unfortunately, because of the circumstances that have affected us - objectives of this ministry to be able to manage and address the effects of the pandemic and the situations arising from them. There have been many circumstances in the area of consumption that have been affected as a result of the pandemic. I could identify, to make this exhibition easier, three broad lines that frame the vast majority of public policies that this ministry is going to carry out and that have its budgetary correlation in what we are presenting this afternoon. First of all, general consumption actions, actions in which any type of consumption, as I said, can be carried out on a daily basis. We are talking about market control and surveillance. This Ministry of Consumer Affairs is responsible for technical support for market inspection and surveillance. For example, the non-food alert network has to do with the ministry and, of course, requires budget to work well. For a very short time now, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, through its Directorate-General, has been the liaison, the liaison office with the European Union and, therefore, we are the focal point for all national supervisory authorities. It is also important to understand that we have an analytical control over the quality and safety of non-food products. We have a laboratory to which you have been invited, whenever you want, as legitimate representatives of popular sovereignty, so that you can visit it, and which is especially important on dates like this because, for example, it is responsible for the control and safety of toys, it controls that the regulations are actually being complied with and that, for example, they are not dangerous for minors. But clothes or small appliances are also affected - I try to get down to concrete elements that on paper are a little more tedious -. And the promotion of associationism, as article 51 of the Constitution also states; therefore, the promotion of the protection of the rights of consumers: we talk about the promotion of out-of-court resolutions in relation to the conflicts arising from commercial relations established on a daily basis, we talk about improving the system of arbitration in relation to consumption and we talk about the normative development that remains ahead. It is the intention of this ministry, and of this minister in particular, that, in the coming months, an amendment to the Consumers and Users Act, which will allow for the definitive prohibition of 902 and the homogenization of the legal status of the vulnerable consumer person to facilitate its use by all public administrations, has already been announced, is already in progress and will arrive in the House, hopefully, in the coming months. Second line, healthy consumption. This is done through the Spanish Food and Nutrition Security Agency, known as Aesan, whose president is the secretary general of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which is responsible for promoting food security - when there is a food crisis is a fundamental institution for the control and management of this situation - and for promoting good patterns of healthy consumption or what we call nutrition; for example, the prevention of obesity. Just two months ago the Aladino 2019 report came out, which placed the data in a very clear and very worrying way: in our country, four out of ten minors between the ages of six and nine suffer some kind of overweight. And this obesity rate, worrying in itself, is especially heavy as its incidence, its prevalence is twice as high among families with fewer resources than among families with more resources, derived from patterns of daily behavior, such as physical exercise, but also and especially from patterns of consumption. These are the tasks of the agency, they are the tasks of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. That is why we need to continue to obtain raw materials that will allow us to have a map of what is happening. In the last decade we have been fighting this situation of obesity and malnutrition as a country, two different phenomena, but in recent years there has been a significant stagnation in the indicators. Better knowledge of the situation naturally requires budget allocation for quality reports, reports that allow us to know what are the best public policies with scientific evidence, also from the point of view of food security, of course. I mentioned the food safety network earlier. The alert network operates under the Ministry of Consumer Affairs: when a product is dangerous to health, the alert network works effectively because this institution has sufficient resources and therefore we are talking about budgets. We are talking about that in the Aesan there are two additional laboratories: the National Food Centre - which I invite you to visit too - in which you can check very well the technology available to our country to deal with this problem, and the Marine Biotoxins Laboratory, which is also an important point in the European network. We have to say that they are precisely the Aesan and this space of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs a focal point within the European Food Safety Agency. Its functioning and budget allocation are therefore essential for matters which are on the day-to-day agenda of its Members: the product that is being eaten or the product that is being consumed that is not of a food nature. All this depends to a great extent on these budget headings. At the same time - we spoke before obesity - the NAOS Strategy requires resources to improve consumption habits, following scientific recommendations, for example, from the World Health Organization or the well-known European farm-to-table strategy. Having all the information and being able to carry out information, awareness, control and intervention campaigns naturally has an economic or financial need. Finally, in this area, the following regulations, which form part of the planning of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, include frontal labelling in food. That is, when you go to the supermarket, you can see whether the product is healthy or not at a glance through a gradient of color, red to green, synthesized by an algorithm that already exists and is working in some countries, such as France - is the label called NutriScore -, which is not perfect but is an important leap forward. This will allow the user to find in a graphical way whether that product that he is going to consume is healthy or not healthy according to scientific criteria. As we always say, we don't tell people what to consume, but we do provide the scientific evidence that invites them to reflect on what patterns of consumption can have better or worse effects in the future. As we have often insisted, childhood obesity is a problem in itself, but it is also a problem because of its derivatives; for example, psychological derivatives in childhood age, but also health derivatives in adulthood. The probability of maintaining obesity in adulthood is very high when it has been lower with obesity and obesity in adulthood worsens the prognosis for very common diseases such as hypertension and also others such as, unfortunately, COVID. This frontal labelling is a contribution in addition to that comprehensive plan which we have already outlined in the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs and in other forums too - I will therefore not be abounding in this - and which involves the management and prohibition of child advertising of certain products which are scientifically proven to worsen the quality of life of the person concerned - in this case minors - and which have very severe consequences in the medium and long term. Also, as these budgets have been relevant under other headings, there is fiscal management in line with a system of incentives and disincentives whereby healthy consumption is encouraged by lower taxes than average and unhealthy consumption is disincentived by additional items in this area. Finally, in a third line of public policies that we have to deploy we are talking about safe gambling. In the competences of this ministry comes the management of gambling and gambling. We have already completed a part of the coalition agreement by banning in a rather broad manner and with strict regulation the advertising of gambling and gambling. It was a matter that was expected in the coalition agreement after eight years without any regulation. Once we have fulfilled this step, we lack to be able to understand that there is still a functioning market, people who are participating and who can develop certain pathologies that we want to mitigate through safe playing behavior patterns, reminding all people of the reality behind, the mathematical reality, the risks to which one is exposed when participating in this type of activity, while promoting information, awareness and other campaigns to inform in a clear way what are the risks of this type of activity. As you know, in recent years there has been a great social alarm because the proliferation of gambling halls and betting houses has been widespread, especially in disadvantaged neighbourhoods, with very negative consequences for certain social groups, mainly the most vulnerable. These groups are the ones with the least resources and are those who can fall on more occasions in the temptation to believe that their situation of economic hardship could possibly be solved with a couple of clicks and with a great ability to correct or predict certain results of sporting events or any other manifestation and, consequently, that they could solve the moments of difficulty that are going through in their life. This situation is happening in our neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods and requires a public policy response which, honestly, I believe, from the Ministry of Consumer Affairs we are right to give after a long time without any regulation and which is accompanied in these budgets by a redirection - to put it mildly - or a reorientation of the rate of play so that 25% of the revenue can be used for these purposes which have to do with information, awareness, intervention, control and also reparation. I would like to point out, although it is clear, that the Directorate-General for Game Planning, which belongs to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and is responsible for these tasks, needs a sufficient budget to maintain the basic services in place to monitor and control the activities of the game operators and to combat the fraud and damage of sports parties and events in collaboration with the National Police and the Civil Guard. Again, I invite all of you to visit the facilities of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs whenever you wish to know their high technological level and the technical and work training of our professionals and officials who are dedicated precisely to combating this type of fraud and at the same time ensure that this activity, that of gambling, which is legal in our country, can be carried out without having negative consequences for the whole population, especially for the working class, which, according to all the indicators, is very vulnerable to this type of process. In short, they are good budgets for the country and good for all those who are in this ministry. I believe that we are transforming elements of great social impact, and I say this with humility but also with clarity, and helping to eradicate some of the most structurally integrated hardships in our society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Riolobos Regadera.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday 442 people died from COVID. It is the same as if in Spain every day a plane crashed and all its occupants died. Trembling. I would like to remind the relatives of the 75 000 people who died and the 1.6 million people who were infected. Mr Garzón, President Casado has done more for consumers than you and Mr Sánchez, because he has managed to lower VAT on masks, the most important element for health protection against COVID. Now we're trying to get him down to 0%. Mr Garzón, these budgets are very damaging to consumers: they damage the shopping basket because you have asked for VAT to be raised; they damage the purchasing power of families because you have asked for taxes to be raised; they affect lower incomes, and in addition to hospitality and all sectors. Yours is a Kamikaze government, it goes in the opposite direction to the rest of the countries of the European Union: everyone lowers taxes and lowers VAT to activate consumption. It is very curious that you will go into history as the Minister of VAT, a communist minister who knows that VAT is the most unfair tax for the most modest classes. [[Applauds]] We have tabled 1500 amendments, and there are two that your Government has vetoed: that of zero VAT for masks, which would save 16 billion in VAT for all Spanish consumers, and that of not raising VAT for sugary drinks. It is true that yesterday we managed to introduce an amendment whereby, at least, yogurts that are liquid and liquid for the elderly and for children come out of the VAT increase. Look, your collection voraciousness is tremendous, because, despite having lowered the VAT on masks, do you know how much you are going to collect this year, taking it out of the consumer pocket? More than 800 million euros. These budgets are the tale of milk. Do you think private consumption will be activated at 10.7 points? It's a chimera. Do you think that EUR 72 billion in VAT will be raised when we reach four million unemployed? It's unthinkable. We have asked in one of our amendments to section 31, which I believe to be defended, that your ministry should disappear. You know why? Because it is a purely artificial ministry, since it was created for you to be a minister, for you to be president Mr Sánchez - by the way, it is the worst president in history and the one who has had the least number of votes - and, of course, for you to be able to place your friends. It has very few skills because they are almost all transferred to the autonomous communities. It has a scarce budget, 41 million euros, ten times less than that of the Ministry of Equality and seven hundred times less than that of Mr Escrivá's ministry, which has 29 billion euros. Besides, do you know how much you're gonna spend? Less than one euro per inhabitant per year to protect consumers, absolutely nothing. I believe, sincerely, that you have not had anyone to support you in negotiating budgets, I believe you are in low hours, because your beloved leader, Mr. Iglesias, has not defended you; point this out, to see if you will be the next to fall into those Leninist purges to which Mr. Iglesias has accustomed us with his companions. The results of his ministry are pathetic. You see, three of your ministers, Illa, Garzón and Iglesias, by a minister of the People's Party, Dr. Ana Pastor. He was Minister of Health, Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare, and he gives you ten thousand laps. She got some extraordinary results, and she alone, by the way. Besides this, you've messed up a lot. You have defended that the ideal consumption model is the Cuban model - ration and misery charts -, you have attacked tourism, the forces and bodies of state security, the head of state, and on the subject of VAT you have been allowed to eat the snack by Mrs Montero. Do you know how much they have collected for VAT in the purchase of masks from the 14th of March until now? More than 1 billion. Our amendments are along the following lines: combating obesity, combating ludopathy, better use of masks, improving healthy food, supporting the Consumers and Users Council, but we want to do so by educating and persuading, not by capon and with VAT as you do. Look, Mr Garzón, you are in your own business; you want to change the democratic model of 1978; you want to act like a Trojan horse within the government, undermining the pillars of the rule of law. I'm done. Mr Simancas - and I am glad that you are here - on Monday you were calling for us to support the budgets, and I cannot support these budgets because you have cruelly dealt with Queen's Talavera and the entire province of Toledo. At Talavera de la Reina, with a chronic unemployment rate of 30%, you have removed 300 million euros from the budgets that had been programmed since 2018 for the AVE and have stopped the AVE of Extremadura because it has to pass through Talavera de la Reina. [[Applauds]] And do you believe, Mr Simancas, that the Madridns are going to vote for you by criticizing the Madridns, such as Mr Rufián? Look, Mr Garzón, these budgets are, as I said at the beginning, harmful to all consumers; they are going to do a great deal of damage to consumers and of course it does not seem to us half right that you use the chair of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs to attack the monarchy, to try to control justice, to stop the legislative power, to try to gag the press and social networks, to fight against freedom of education and now also to pass the law of euthanasia against life. Mr. Garzón the roller of Peter and Paul will do irreparable and lethal damage to the 47 million consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Riolobos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u185	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth, Minister, is that this budget has very little to comment on, basically because it does not exist. It is that you have less budget than a pedany; it is that there are small municipalities in this country that manage more budget than you; it is that this budget can only be justified from the point of view of giving you a chair to enable a government agreement, and that chair will be paid with your taxes by all Spanish citizens. By the way, taxes that now rise not only to the rich but to the whole of the Spaniards by raising the VAT of some products. But the few things that depended on this ministry have proved to be a huge incompetence. I'll give you an example. You say you're very social, but we've been out of masks for nine months for deaf people, without transparent masks, nine months!But the first masks that we're starting to see are tarnishing, and I'm telling you, I have a 50 % hearing loss and I'm having a hard time following a conversation, and I'm not telling you anything anymore about those who don't directly cost you, it's just that they can't. If they really have social sensitivity, I believe that nine months for the subject of transparent masks is more than enough time and demonstrates their lack of commitment and of wanting to solve a problem that does not seem so difficult. [[Applauds]] But I would like to refer in this speech to a press conference that EH Bildu gave today in Navarre. At that press conference, Bildu said it was time to address Navarra's status. Ladies and gentlemen of Bildu and the ladies and gentlemen of the Government who are pattering with Bildu, I will tell you one thing in case you have thought of putting Navarra on the table in this budget negotiation. Navarra's status is very clear. Navarra is Navarra and Navarra is Spain. [[Applauds]] This is not just because it is said by the Improvement of Foreign Affairs, not just because it is in the Spanish Constitution, this is because it is the will of the vast majority of Navarro citizens, who have been telling them for decades that we are neither Basques nor want to be Basques nor will we ever be Basques. Leave that Euskal Herria entelequia, which exists only in their heads; stop manoeuvring Navarra and respect our community. That is what the Navarros tell them, that there is nothing to define about the status because Navarra is already what it wants to be: a differentiated outlaw community, with a broad self-government but that is part of the common project of Spain. That's Navarra. [[Applauds]] I also tell you on the eve of the day of our community, on December 3rd, the day of San Francisco Javier, our patron; a day on which we commemorate and celebrate the pride of being shipwrecked, the pride of a millennial history, of traditions and a culture of our own, the pride of being part of a loyal, supportive, committed and entrepreneurial land, the pride of being shipwrecked and the pride of being part of the common project of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u186	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u187	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, minister, and thank you for trying to explain to us what your ministry is for. Inadequate attempt. We are talking about Consumption, an artificially created ministry to give the dying remains of the United Left, personified already, I believe, only by you, Mr. Garzón, who has liquidated your own party. I will be brief, as much as the activity and, above all, the usefulness of your ministry. This ministry is a residual ministry, which has as budget the irritating amount of 46 million euros and which spends on staff 26. It has been created to place the friends of the small communist faction of the amalgam puemite. By the way, today the news was published that you intend to place your own uncle on the General Council of the Judiciary. Yeah, the cover-up thing, for another day, right? Pure nepotism. This is Communism 2.0. In theory, this artificial ministry should have solved and regulated the controversy of the mask VAT, and in its own way tried. Last November 17, through a tweet - which is apparently the only way to work in his ministry - the Ministry of Consumer Affairs itself contradicted the Ministry of Finance as to which masks were to be used and which ones would have a VAT reduction. Disaster policy, you don't even agree with each other. We proposed a VAT discount on each and every mask. You, bound by your lies and also by Europe, only for one. Taxes, taxes and more taxes, get your hands on citizens' pockets when they're more empty. With regard to the sugary beverage tax, which seems to be rich drinks according to you, and on what my group has tabled an amendment vetoed by the Government, I ask you what incentives companies have to improve their products if you tax all sugary beverages in the same way regardless of the sugar content and the product used to sweeten. The answer is none. If you cared about the health of the citizens, you would have designed a progressive tax that would encourage producers to produce progressively healthier. Health and employment, Mr. Garzón. His only interest is collection, nothing to do with improving eating habits. Without health there is no job and without employment there is no health, they go hand in hand. After the terrible tax hikes, spending on advisors, protecting consumers and users without a word. You, minister, are more dedicated to vilifying our tourism by saying that it has no added value - I would like to know what your ministry has - a sector of which many Spaniards eat, including all of us; to criticizing the king, to criticizing my colleagues in the State Security Forces and Bodies and to being a very expensive Tertulian paid with public money. Again Communism 2.0. I finish, because there is not much more to say in this leftover ministry. Sanchez had to place you, Mr. Garzón, and you're already placed. Without the Aesan, which you have mentioned and which should be in Health, what is the use of your ministry? None. Now it's up to us to suffer him. And I inform you that for me and many Spaniards a criminal can also be left-wing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u188	Thank you, Mr. Cambronero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Domínguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u189	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'm amazed at what I just heard and now I'm going to tell you a little bit why, more than anything because we've heard about anything but consumption. We have heard of Navarra, which seems very good to me, but this was not the time; we have heard of the opinion on Minister Garzón, which seems very good to me, but it was not the time, and yet consumption has not been heard. What we have heard is that there is nothing to say on this subject. Is this what you care about? You've already said everything, you've portrayed yourselves, but it's okay. We, as we have stated on other occasions, also consider it a modest budget, but it is you who defend that the public money we pay all the citizens of this country must be well used, and in this section, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, it will be very well used. Little money for a great task, a very important task that will affect us positively all citizens. Also on other occasions I have also told you about the theoretical foundations that underpin the existence of a concrete and exclusive budget for consumption. Basically, as we have no other remedy for the moment than to continue in a capitalist system, we have to manage capitalism and know how to protect the most vulnerable people from market failures, including abuses of power, asymmetries of information, etc. But it seems that with the theory they haven't had enough, I don't know if they don't understand or they don't want to understand. So let's move on to the practical examples today to see if they have a little more left. I come from Girona and there are different neighborhoods, some with more resources than others. There is one called Font de la Pólvora, with an average purchasing power lower than the rest, where they have had problems for five years. They've been repeatedly suffering from light cuts for five years. It is not that one day the light will go away because it rains more than normal, no; they suffer almost daily and increasingly long cuts of light. Imagine, the fridge doesn't work, food and medicine aren't stored either. The respirators for sick people who depend on them don't work either because they need electricity. Duty lamps, computers, a heater, nothing works. You know what they say? Which is your fault or your neighbors' fault, but no, they regularly pay for the service of light and, in return, have no service. They are in a vulnerable consumer situation. This is the goal, to protect these types of consumers or people when they are in vulnerable situations. And this is the objective of the budget dedicated to this section, to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. I do not understand how you can deny your usefulness and table an amendment rejecting the whole of this budget. They are not interested in vulnerable consumers, but they are interested in my parliamentary group and the ministry, as the Minister has explained. What I told you about Font de la Pólvora is just an example of situations of vulnerability that as consumers we can all suffer. I can put others, for example, those affected by the closures of Dentix or Vitaldent. With what it costs to go and fix your mouth - as is commonly said - it turns out that you leave your money there and come out with worse oral health and above without money. This is what the Ministry of Consumer Affairs is for, so these things don't happen again. How can you say that there is nothing more to talk about about the Ministry of Consumer Affairs? Don't they care about people who are in vulnerable consumer situations? Either of us and we can find ourselves in this situation, because it is true that it affects people with less resources more, but it can also affect you on age issues. Sometimes the information about the products we consume is explained in a way that is difficult to understand. It is the task of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, of this budget that we are debating today, to make the information of the products we consume understandable to all, regardless of our age, our abilities or the mood in which we find ourselves. This is what the Ministry of Consumer Affairs is for. It may also happen to us that sometimes we don't have enough information to choose food, leisure, or that suits us for our well-being. People, because of our circumstances - often not chosen because not all of us are born with a bread under our arms and, above all, after years of neoliberal policies perpetrated by the right-wing bench - can find ourselves in situations where we are vulnerable consumers. If you do not agree with the perspective that is being given to this budget, you could have contributed and expressed your opinion. In this way they might have been useful. In this way they might have represented the interests of large companies, some with bad intentions, without sensitivity, who try to deceive through advertising and with products of insufficient quality to consumers, but have not done so. Instead, they have decided to table an amendment rejecting the entire budget. I understand that what happens to you is that it should be good for people to find themselves sometimes in a vulnerable consumer situation because the more people there are in a vulnerable situation, the more benefit for companies that want to take advantage of them, right? A colleague of the Socialist Party commented this morning; you are settled in the philosophy of the worst, better, but we are not; we are not going to leave it because for us knowledge, knowledge has to be a right. As my friend used to say by paraphrasing Silvio Rodríguez; if it's not a right, it'll be a left.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u190	Mrs. Lopez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u191	Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u192	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Fernández Ríos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There are many reasons why our parliamentary group, for its sense of responsibility, must table an amendment to all these budgets, but I will focus on two. The first is that they are the budgets of ETA, which are going to be used to break Spain. This alone would already be a powerful reason for presenting the amendment as a whole. [[Applauds]] Their government partners make them the budgets of shame. Some choose Mr. Otegi as a partner, who kidnapped an entrepreneur, held him in a zulo for several days and made him play Russian roulette. Yes, make it clear, Mr. Sanchez - wherever you are - that's your partner. [[The Lord]] The second reason is the issue before us. Only the existence of the new ministry, this new Ministry of Consumer Affairs that they have created for Mr Garzón, would be another reason for submitting an amendment to the whole. You have created the ministry of nothingness because nothing has to manage. It is an example of how you do politics, especially if you pay for the money that some believe is nobody's, but represents the effort of many. [[Applauds]] Yes, yes, his new paper house, his ministry of nothingness only manages 0.01 % of the budget for this year 2021. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, with two zeros; 0.01, the equivalent of the ministry and the minister: zero for the minister and zero for the ministry. [[Applauds]] Mr. Garzón, I ask you, do you want to go into history as the minister of zero or as the minister of nothingness? You choose. It is the ministry of nothing because nothing manages, but, yes, it costs us 41 million euros mainly for the payment of extras and armchairs, and that, moreover, as if the Spaniards are left with the money at the moment, it will waste 20% more than it cost to perform their same functions in the previous budget. Your toy ministry, Mr. Garzón, has only three competencies. The first is consumer protection. I do not know if they know - of course they do - but this competition is almost entirely transferred to the autonomous communities. The second competition of the pocket edition ministry we have created is the regulation of the game. The same is true of us, the majority of competences are transferred to the autonomous communities. Don't think they're cheating on us; what's not transferred was already the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and the National Gambling Commission. That is, two competencies and so far virtually no function. Third competence of the ministry of nothingness; against all sectors and professional criteria - doctors, pharmacists, veterinarians - have removed from the Ministry of Health the agency - autonomous - of food security. You, without any blush and with much irresponsibility, contravene the experts' criterion once again to give a minimum content your pocket ministry. [[Applauds]] And very careful with this, don't be irresponsible, don't put us in danger, don't play with our food security, don't gag the experts' judgment; on the contrary, consider their opinions; their scientific knowledge is much more relevant than their cravings for power. Moreover, that 20% increase in expenditure I mentioned above is not to improve any management, no. For example, the Food Safety Agency's budget is cut by almost 4% in staff costs. What does this mean, Socialist gentlemen? That either lowers the staff, or lowers their qualifications, or lowers their salary. Curious communist decision, very curious, favoring the creation of high offices and, yes, unprotecting the workers, those who were not going to leave behind. [[Applauds]] If this were not enough, the minister of nothingness also fires and threatens the good climate that must govern the relationship between consumers and businesses. You already told us on 28 February very clearly: Before I am a minister I am a communist. Curious choice of Mr. Sánchez, to put a communist consumer minister. That's how it goes. [[Applauds]] You threatened conflicts between businesses and consumers facing two key economic axes in a country: production and consumption. What does a company do without consumption? What does a consumer do without a product? In short, unfortunately for all Spaniards the three functions entrusted to Mr Garzón are: to generate unnecessary spending, to create conflicts between consumers and entrepreneurs and to scare away wealth and job creation. Your ministry, Mr. Garzón, is reduced to little more than the regulation of online gambling. And I ask the socialist ladies and gentlemen, was this ministry necessary? Was it really necessary with which it is falling? By their deeds they will know them and by their deeds, unfortunately for Spain, we are suffering them. Because, ladies and gentlemen socialcommunists, your beloved leaders - those you particularly like so much - have been able to leave Cuba without sugar, Venezuela without oil, Argentina without meat. And Mr Garzón, imitating them, as a good communist, wants to leave Spain without sugar by criminalizing sugary drinks with his campaign; without the diesel industry, so important in our country, with its irrational compliance with the 2030 Agenda; without meat for that animalist defense to the extreme and impoverishing Spanish farmers; and, above all, without tourism attacking the value of one of the most important sectors for our economy. [[Applauds]] Thankfully, you only coordinate 41 million euros; the day you are assigned a serious ministry is able to end yourself with the Spanish and the future of Spain. This budget only certifies that you represent the government of waste...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u194	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández Ríos, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u195	... of the irresponsibility, the conflict and, therefore, in VOX we will... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u196	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, shame would be and is to be charged as a Member and to have spent a whole week without working on these budgets. That is indeed a true and absolute shame. That is why I will not spend any more time opposing your non-existent contributions to these General State Budgets. [[Applauds]] Mr Sayas and Mrs Riolobos, but what a complete lack of respect for the 47 million Spanish consumers; Mr Sayas devoted himself to speaking in all his intervention by his community and Mrs Riolobos devoted himself to talking about the railway infrastructure of Talavera de la Reina. What about the consumer policies that are being discussed here this afternoon? Where are the consumer, consumer and consumer policies for you? What a disrespect! [[Applauds]] Mrs Riolobos, seven years of Rajoy's government, EUR 600 000 executed on the Madrid-Extremadura railway line. Two years of government of Pedro Sánchez, more than 20 million euros executed on the railway line Madrid-Extremadura, more than 20. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, here we are at a historic moment debating vital budgets for the new challenges facing our country. That is why I would first like to emphasise four differentiating aspects of our budgets: one, the pandemic situation; two, the fact that we have more than two years of extended and therefore obsolete budgets, makes it more necessary than ever to be able to have budgets adapted to the new and extraordinary needs that consumers have to face at the moment; three, these budgets are the necessary instrument to be able to vehicle the 27 billion euros that the President of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, has achieved in his negotiations in Europe; and finally, for the first time in the history of our democracy, consumer policies have a ministry and a budget of their own. This has to be put into practice because it is making it possible to give greater visibility to consumer protection policies which, I remind you, are ordered in Article 51 of our Constitution, even if you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, try to disregard them by calling them little in order to have a ministry of your own. Yes, it's modest; if you're modest, the budget says it's small, but you don't support it because it's a waste; what are we left with, a small waste? To waste the airports without planes that you built and that we're still paying. [[Applauds]] Yes, in the Socialist Group we are convinced that giving ministerial rank to consumer policies, especially in a context of pandemics, is more necessary than ever because of the importance of the consumer figure and, therefore, the policies aimed at its protection. This has been observed during the pandemic when the Ministry of Consumer Affairs has promoted legislative measures and coordinated actions with other ministries by granting moratoriums on consumption credits, extending the deadlines for the return of products in purchases, setting the price of funeral services, hydroalcoholic gel and masks. Yes, then you were against it and they said that there was going to be a shortage, but it wasn't. What was done was to stop the speculation that, perhaps, is actually what you wanted to protect, that speculation. Hence the nonsense of the amendment tabled by the People's Party rejecting the entire budget allocated to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. By the way, I am surprised to see that the People's Party also maintains an amendment calling for a guide to the use of masks, which is already published. You've got a lot of missteps! Ladies and gentlemen, this budget includes substantial improvements in consumer protection. New patterns of consumption, accelerated as a result of this pandemic, can generate inequality between those who know how to handle themselves in the digital world and those who do not have that skill. Here too, we show the need for a specific ministry to lead this transition from exclusively physical to mixed forms of digital and face-to-face consumption. In this regard, I would like to highlight the planned effort with more arbitrators for the out-of-court resolution of conflicts, including strengthening consumer protection policies and collaborating with consumer associations. This budget also increases resources to alleviate the social consequences of COVID by having a cross-cutting impact on other ministries, hence its importance in ensuring fundamental issues. If we talk about gambling, we must highlight how much progress has been made in a very short time, regulating for the first time in Spain the advertising of gambling and gambling, establishing measures to restrict the exposure of minors and sectors vulnerable to betting ads. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, there are really dramatic situations in some of our neighbourhoods as a result of the game, but, of course, you reject budgets that prioritize and make this reality visible. Why? Why do you bother? In regions where you rule, like Murcia, do you know what you do? Eliminate the gambling tax to gambling houses in the middle of the pandemic. [[Applauds]] These are the facts that show that you want to eliminate this ministry and this budget. Do you know what we do in these budgets? To establish a final provision whereby 25% of the rate of gross operating income of the game will be devoted to strengthening the means to prevent pathological gambling. But since these questions are not of interest to you, they disguise it as a party argumentary and pull it out, and so Mrs Riolobos talks about tax hikes, tax hacks, but what taxes are you talking about, the taxes that Mr Rajoy raised in 2011 by passing the general VAT from 18 to 21 %?, are you talking about the IRPF?, what did you create the tax on the sun?, are you talking about the freezing of the interprofessional minimum wage?, the tax amnesty for your defrauding friends?, are you talking about the pharmaceutical co-op with which you mistreated our pensioners?, are you talking about the increase in the number of students per class up to 20 %?, are you talking about the increase in university fees, that they savagely cut the Law on Dependency, the assessments of the caregivers, that they reduced unemployment benefits and eliminated the unemployment benefit for over 52 years?, are you talking about the increase in university fees, that they savagely cut off the dependency, the contributions of the care workers, that they reduced the unemployment benefits for over 52 years? And you want to give me consumer protection lessons here?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] Well, believe me, they're not getting anything convincing, nothing convincing. But let's talk about our taxes, of course, on property tax for income over EUR 10 million, so I wish those taxes would go up to me! Up by two points of the IRPF for income from work more than 300 000 euros, i.e. people with fourteen wages earn more than 21 000 euros a month, where to sign? Look, I understand your suspicion about these budgets, I understand that you don't like them, but stop twisting reality, stop twisting budgets that have no justification for not supporting, well yes, that you haven't done them because you preferred austereicide and rescue the bank, and with these budgets we rescue people, consumers and consumers. So I'd like to finish by asking them to think...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u198	Mrs. Sánchez Jódar, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u199	... begging them for loyalty and patriotism from the one who saves lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u200	Thank you. We move on to the discussion of sections 32, of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, and 60, Social Security. For the presentation of the sections, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u201	President, ladies and gentlemen, this is undoubtedly a budget marked by an exceptional context which has determined our performance this year and which will inevitably continue to do so as we return to normality. My first words I want to remind the victims, among whom we have ministerial workers and their families, to whom I want to send all my support from here. In the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration we have deployed a wide range of policies aimed at alleviating the health, labour and economic consequences of this serious crisis since the first day. This budget will allow us to continue to do so next year by driving the return to normalcy of our society and economy, even though we are aware that the pandemic will also set our priorities next year. Our budget has the necessary financial tools to achieve three major objectives that we have set at the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration since the beginning of the legislature. Firstly, the great task of social security next year will undoubtedly be to implement the recommendations of the Toledo Pact that you have just agreed in this House. Secondly, through the General Secretariat for Objectives and Policies for Social Inclusion and Social Security, we will work on the full deployment of minimum living income. Thirdly, the Secretariat of State for Migration is already moving towards a new model of migration management in line with the reality of our country. Finally, and across these objectives, the budget for 2021 includes a set of interventions aimed at improving and modernising the management of our ministry, with a strong drive for efficiency, data analysis, innovation and digitisation. A more agile administration that uses data and new technologies more efficiently is an administration with a greater capacity to respond to problems and better service to citizens. I will structure my intervention in relation to these three areas of action and start with Social Security. The State General Budgets include 172,429 million euros for Social Security, an amount that will serve to pay almost 10 million pensions and benefits as relevant as temporary incapacity, child birth allowance or minimum living income, allowing us to care for millions of citizens in their daily lives. The 2021 accounts not only finance these benefits, but also incorporate - and I would like to emphasize it very much - the pension agreement under the Toledo Pact, which was achieved here a few weeks ago with only two votes against. Four lines of action in the budgets derive from the recommendations of the compact. Firstly, by 2021, pensions will rise in line with expected inflation by 0.9 % and non-contributory pensions by 1.8 %, in line with the second recommendation of the Toledo Pact. This increase provides certainty to pensioners and reinforces the commitment of society as a whole to them and is in line with the practices of the countries in our environment. Secondly, the budgets contain a transfer of EUR 14 billion to cover the non-contributory costs of the system, those which the Toledo Pact considers should not be financed from contributions. This will allow us to visualize the real situation of social security that will be in balance at the end of the parliamentary term, as requested by the Toledo Pact. Thirdly, these budgets include a key measure to increase co-responsibility and thereby reduce the gender gap. From 1 January 2021 maternity and paternity leave shall be equal to sixteen weeks for each parent. Data show that much of the wage gap arises after the birth of the first child, and this difference is maintained for the rest of the career until pension. Finally, we have committed ourselves to strengthening our supplementary social welfare system. Current tax incentives, individual private plans, are not conducive to saving and are highly regressive. When we compare Spain with countries in our environment with similar pension systems, the underdevelopment of employment plans, collective plans, draws attention. We believe that there is room to boost savings through this route, which will benefit middle- and low-income groups as well as young people. To this end, we have included two measures in the State General Budgets: firstly, the shift from favourable taxation of individual plans to employment plans resulting from collective bargaining and, secondly, the creation of a public promotion pension fund with very small commissions, which extends to all employees and self-employed persons who wish to participate in it and, by default, by means of collective bargaining. The ultimate objective with these measures is to increase the savings of Spanish families in a simple, safe and cost-effective way. We are aware that we must strengthen the management capacity of Social Security to ensure that all these interventions are successful. We will do all this by betting on human capital and digitisation. Let me give you a series of data that I consider very relevant in this context. Over the past ten years, social security staff have fallen by 20%. 60% of our workers are over 60 years old; only 5%, less than 40 years old. And the work - as you know perfectly well - has not diminished; on the contrary, the pandemic has shown us all how important it is to have an agile public administration and how costly it is for society to decapitalize it progressively. We must certainly increase and rejuvenate our templates. To this end, we have budgeted an increase in staff expenditure of 8.5%, more than EUR 200 million, creating around 1200 new jobs in social security, which is in addition to the 270 officials we have already created new ones this year and the 1000 jobs that have also been incorporated in 2020. But, in our view, this must go hand in hand with a profound change in their structures, adapting them to a very different society than the one that Social Security had to attend to when it was designed. The impulse of digitization is unquestionable. We have already taken some steps in this direction and the pandemic crisis has, logically, forced us to do so. We are convinced that this modernization is especially valuable in order to take advantage of the enormous capacity of the administration of social security in the territory, making it a fundamental tool in the fight against depopulation and the defence of territorial cohesion. Let me now turn to the second area of action of the ministry, that of inclusion. The General Secretariat of Objectives and Policies for Inclusion and Social Security is a new body that is born with an innovative vocation: to develop the new policy of inclusion in our country. It is not only a demand from society and national experts, but also a demand from European and international institutions that for too many years have drawn our attention to the need to articulate a country policy, to protect incomes and to combat exclusion. This new policy must be pursued in the use and intensive exploitation of data through advanced processing and analysis techniques, and must also be articulated through a multi-level governance model that enables the necessary collaboration and coordination with autonomous communities, local authorities and the third sector. Our budget for 2021 will enable us to advance the work of the General Secretariat on three axes. Firstly, in the development of inclusion routes, a central element in the design of minimum living income, which aims at the transition of vulnerable groups in a situation of exclusion to full participation in social and economic life. Secondly, the success of these itineraries rests on the fact that the design contemplates the characteristics of the recipients, for which it is necessary to have very good information about the data and profiles of these people, and to evaluate their success it is necessary to implement well-designed programmes from a methodological point of view. For this reason, much of the budget allocation of this General Secretariat is geared towards the construction of metrics and the design of pilot intervention programmes in the areas of inclusion. The second priority will be the development of an inclusion map for our country. Current inclusion policies are overly atomized and we need to know better what really exists, best practices and coordinate the actions of different administrations. Finally, our third axis of action lies at the origin of the General Secretariat: the continuous evaluation and redesign of minimum living income. Minimum vital income is already a reality. We have received more than one million applications, of which almost two thirds have already processed them or interacted with their petitioners, and we have approved almost 160 000 minimum vital income. This benefit already reaches almost half a million people, reflecting unprecedented deployment compared to similar programmes in the past. In addition to continuing the effective deployment of this new benefit, it is time to raise a number of questions. Is it reaching out to all the people who need it? Is that the right amount? How are we going to encourage access to employment for the beneficiaries? The continuous assessment of minimum living income has been present from the beginning and we will adjust its design to ensure that it fulfils its task: the eradication of extreme poverty. To carry out its plan, the General Secretariat for Active Objectives and Policies for Social Inclusion and Social Security has a budget of about 120 million euros. These items will be reinforced with European funds, international programmes focusing on technical assistance and Structural Reform Support Programme projects. Let me finally address the third area of action of the ministry, that of migration. By 2021, we have set two cross-cutting objectives from the Secretariat of State for Migration: to be more effective, i.e. to have an adequate response capacity, and to be more efficient, improving management models and public resources. We have identified daily limitations on improving the current management model. Our asylum-seekers' reception system is ineffective and under-funded. Our ability to respond to changes in coastal arrival flows is clearly deficient. We have seen it in the Canary Islands, where, after years of dismantling reception capacities, we are working counterclockwise to adapt to the new needs and emergencies. The management and financing tools of the system are very unwieldy. We start from a model based on grants that outweigh the status quo and very long resolution deadlines. In addition, information and evaluation tools and administrative procedures are, of course, obsolete. The change in migration management model that we intend to implement is articulated on three main axes. The first axis is the strengthening of autonomy and capacity in the care system through a network of own centres, with special focus on the Canary Islands, where we are currently deploying around 7000 own reception places that should be available in this month of December. Secondly, we want to change our management model. The European Asylum Support Office, EASO, has recently been in Madrid making a diagnosis of the current system and suggesting proposals for improvement. In order to fulfil its recommendations, the 2021 budgets represent a transition scenario, while an EASO technical team will help us in the coming months to implement the necessary measures to achieve this transition. Finally, we will launch a digitisation plan in line with the needs of migrants in Spain and Spanish citizens abroad, which will ensure, on the one hand, an improvement in the management of the system by reducing waiting times and, on the other, greater rigour and agility in the information and processing of data. The total budget for carrying out these tasks amounts to EUR 488 million. It represents a one-third increase in actions in favour of emigrants and will be complemented by more than 40 million from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Allow me to conclude. The year 2020 has been an exceptional year for all and our ministry has been no exception. Not only have we responded comprehensively to the harsh health, social and economic reality imposed on us by the pandemic, we have been undertaking structural reforms to strengthen our social protection system by making it more inclusive and sustainable, and always placing the focus on the most vulnerable groups. The year 2021 will be a central year in the consolidation of the transformative project of this ministry, which will have 192 million euros from the Fund for Recovery and Resilience. Our budget plan supports a triple agenda. In the area of social security, we want to assure pensioners and future pensioners of the implementation of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. In the area of inclusion, we will launch an action plan for inclusion based on innovation in the evaluation of public policies and will fully deploy minimum vital income as a central tool. With regard to migration, we are strengthening reception, international protection and humanitarian care systems as we move towards a more flexible and responsive management model. And, of course, we will continue our policies to respond to COVID, with the aim of ensuring a rapid, vigorous and cohesive exit from the crisis over the next year. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u202	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. At this point we discuss the powers and tasks of his ministry, social inclusion and the fight against poverty and inequality. That is why I cannot overlook the statement just made here a few minutes ago. One Member of the Right has said that equality in a free society is impossible, because we have different talents and efforts. You have to have a very hard face, because what this means, basically, is that the rich are because they strive harder and have more talent and the poor are because they strive less or because they have less talent. That's why he says it's natural. This is a shameless thing to do, but it is also that all scientific evidence has shown that it is not. Inequality is inherited. A study recently showed that the rich in the city of Florence have been the same for six hundred years, not because they worked harder or because they were smarter, but because they inherited the fortunes and surnames that allowed them to remain as rich as their parents. For this reason, in our country, for example, the Bofill Foundation has said that a child born in a family of humble origin has six times more chances of repeating course than a child born in a more prosperous family. Does this mean that kid's trying less? Does this mean that because of the water in your neighborhood, that kid is less smart? No, no, It means that inequality is inherited. Inequality, gentlemen of the right, has nothing to do with merit or effort, it has to do, fundamentally, with a deep basic injustice that causes some to be born and start the race with weights tied to their ankles. [[Applauds]] Minister, these budgets are going to go ahead, they are going to go ahead with our vote, and I am glad that they go forward. I believe that the government should not take the approval of budgets with a large and healthy majority as a blank cheque. It is the manifestation of two things, in my opinion. Firstly, that many groups and very different people are aware of the dramatic situation in which our country is located and that it is time to tie our shoulder - I wish there were more that they would have realized this - and secondly, that the funds coming from Europe represent a huge historic opportunity for a transformation that our country needs and that we do not know whether there will be many more trains like this. In any case, the approval of the budgets should not yet be a reason for celebration. It would be a bad thing if there were celebration above and despair below. There are still many people in our country who are very afraid of what happens every day. He'll know I have to start talking about minimum living income. It was approved here as the jewel of the crown, as a historical transformation of the welfare state. It has been six months, one million applications - I think 975,000 applications - and only 14% of them have been approved. This means that there are still thousands of Spaniards with uncertainty or on the loose rope. Those who called it 'paguita' should ask for forgiveness, although their ministry should not pay much attention to those who insult the poor, but should pay more attention to the queues of hunger. There's still a lot of people out of cover. I think you put more emphasis on not a single Spanish person charging for a help that maybe was just worth making sure that no one who deserved it stayed away, and the result is that a lot of people have stayed away. We believe that more workers must be hired, that thresholds must be widened and that the incorporation of many people who have been left without such help must be facilitated. Secondly, there are many people who are suffering a situation, since children, very dramatic. Caritas says that one in three children is at risk of poverty in Spain. You know that when the minimum living income was set aside, the incompatibility with child support was decreed. That has left eight hundred thousand children without paying for that help, which is absolutely necessary. I'm done. He said Avoid that where there is a need a right is born. The rights must be recognized, then they must be realized, until no one in our country is afraid of the arrival of winter. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u204	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u205	Good afternoon, Minister; good afternoon, Members. You know that the Democratic Party is going to support these budgets, and allow them to contextualize it. The scenario of repeating budgets that are out of date, which are made on the basis of completely outdated assumptions not because of the passage of time but especially because of the passage of the pandemic, makes it clear that we have to think that perhaps these budgets are not what we would have done, perhaps these budgets are not all we wanted, but, in short - I bet they are - these budgets are better than a repetition of previous budgets. In this scenario we have negotiated different amendments, as you will have seen, in which there are investments for Barcelona city. Let me focus this intervention in Barcelona city, where I am a Member, and within the framework of Social Security. In one of the amendments that we still had alive there is the question of a solar property of Social Security between the streets Josep Pla, Ramon Llull, Selva de Mar, Avenida Diagonal, 22@de Barcelona city. This plot of about 10,000 square meters had to host the great headquarters of Social Security in Barcelona, and for you to settle down, in 2006 Mayor Joan Clos and Minister Jesús Caldera signed the agreement by which to articulate this great headquarters of Social Security in Barcelona. Currently, Social Security in Barcelona province has thirty empty properties. In a parliamentary question I put were detailed those of Barcelona city, those of Manresa, those of Granollers, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-four of these thirty in Barcelona city and fourteen of these twenty-four in Barcelona city are in the district of Sant Martí. The truth, Minister, is that we were keeping this amendment alive because it would be a great success for the 22nd, for this new area of the City of Barcelona, that Social Security should concentrate its different buildings in a single management unit and, therefore, do things similar to those that were done at the time with the judicial city. It would win Social Security in efficiency, it would win citizens when it comes to processing, but it is also clear that Social Security has to do some sort of analysis in relation to all these empty premises. It was once proposed at the time of Mayor Trias to hand over these premises to the most rooted cultural entities in Barcelona so that they could do social work or cultural work, but Social Security now has more interest in having them closed and unused than in making them profitable. Therefore, we, as I said before, will support the budgets. Significant gains are made in Barcelona, also in the field of rolling mills. For us to solve the issue of rolling stock and that the money of rolling stock passes directly to the Generalitat of Catalonia is important to manage the entry and exit of the citizens in Barcelona and, therefore, the mobility in Barcelona city, but the Social Security in Barcelona also has outstanding duties and one of them is undoubtedly this solar in Diagonal Mar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u206	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Angulo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u207	Thank you, President. Minister, today you defend accounts that are a nightmare for the Spaniards because they contain the terrible policies that always bring more unemployment, poverty and exclusion, and because they have been a currency of exchange with the enemies of Spain, with whom they raise walls and seek to separate and exclude, and from this immorality is complicit a ministry called Inclusion but that of inclusive has only the name. With four million unemployed, 100 000 businesses destroyed, one million self-employed at risk, 70 000 workers in ERTE, 1,2 million households with all their unemployed members and a poverty rate of 21%, we offer tax increases to families and workers and the final stocking to thousands of self-employed, to whom their management of the crisis is leading to closure, unemployment and exclusion. Because to talk about inclusion is to talk about employment, and today's data confirm that the Socialist Party is once again the highway to more unemployment and poverty. [[Show a chart]] It is not just the COVID, it is the worst government of all, and while, its star measure, the minimum income vital, a failure. [[applause]] We support it, but you have made it the great deception of those who said to come to take care of the people; what you did not tell us is that the people were you. One million applications received, only 140 000 granted. While 600,000 families are waiting for help that they already need and increasing poverty and the queues of hunger, you are taking care of your people, a court of advisers that cost us 44 million, with which many of those two million Spaniards who come to the food banks to eat could be given income. And every day a new shining example of the reality of minimum living income, such as that of that unemployed mother with three children who have been given 18 euros a month. What will Galapagar's family do with 18 euros a month? Collapse, delay, internal struggles and, the victims? The humble ones, who are not able to help. For more inri, they eliminate the family support for child poverty that low-income families were receiving, which will now find themselves without anything, neither benefit nor income. They veto our amendment to recover it, they veto the fight against child poverty as they raise their wages to their mastodontic Government. An obscenity, Minister. It is 55 million with which 140 000 grants per dependent child could be paid. Lack of inclusion and unprecedented social crisis in migration policy. From the People's Party we warned them of the dimension of the problem, of the massive arrival of immigrants, but you ignored it. It is a problem for which they are solely responsible for ignoring all the alarms, for their inability to react and because when they burst into their faces, instead of coordinating and giving effective solutions, they dedicated themselves to fighting each other by avoiding responsibilities, and the damage to the Canary Islands and Spain is already done. And you, here today, Minister of Migration, profiled, telling us the same thing as a year ago as if nothing new had happened in the Canary Islands in the last year. [[Applauds]] While, more pateras arriving, more people in the hands of the mafias risking their lives and people to whom the left has had in subhuman conditions on the dock of shame, who will pursue them for life. And to the greatest degree responsible, Mr Sánchez, this humanitarian crisis brings him without care. He demonstrated it in August because, while resting in a palace, a few kilometres away, 4,000 people had already come to the Canary Islands and had no decency to come close to being interested, and now he is neither expected nor expected. [[Applauds]] You are responsible because, while your coalition partners contribute to the effect called with mass regularization, you are silent and willing, giving up working for an orderly and regular migration. Listen, Minister, to what all the parties in the Parliament of the Canary Islands have told you today: abandonment, desirousness and humiliation of the Spanish Government in the Canary Islands. Everyone. Only when the situation was unsustainable did they act but how? Instead of allocating resources to prevent and prevent the arrival from their countries and to repatriate those who arrive, rather than equipping the security forces with the means, to create a fund - which they vetoed - for the autonomous communities suffering from this migratory pressure, their solution was to allocate thousands of euros in hotel accommodation, damaging the image of the Canary Islands' employment engine, while vetoing our amendment to combat the poverty and social exclusion that canaries are already suffering. Is that so funny to you, Minister? Canaries, none. [[Applauds]] They target 85 million to turn the Canary Islands into the new Lampedusa, a large internment centre that will not prevent these people from continuing to Spain by playing their lives at sea and, in the meantime, you grant billion-dollar grants to the NGO of the secretary general of the Communist Party and today deputy of Podemos. Even on this very serious issue, Minister, first of all, friends. Stop lying already about a reality that no ministry of truth will be able to hide. This is the Ministry of Migration and there is no single measure to put an end to the migration crisis. Work for a regular, orderly migration, linked to the labour market, necessary, which is what we defend from the People's Party. Stop fighting each other, stop giving that show, give solutions that prevent thousands of people from continuing to put their lives at risk and make the situation in the Canary Islands not irremediable. Ask Mr Sánchez, the most responsible, to condemn in a clear and sharp manner the interferences in foreign policy and the message of 'papers for all' of his friend Mr Iglesias, who is doing so much damage to Spain, or this will not end. You from your ministry abandon the Spaniards who are here increasing the queues of hunger, but also leave and punish the Spaniards who reside abroad, who with these budgets punish by leaving empty the Return to Spain Plan, eliminating the games that serve to keep in contact and in communication with our country those compatriots who defend our culture, the pride of being Spanish, and spread the Spanish brand throughout the world. Has this also been a condition of those...? Look what they're interested in. Look, Minister. I'm done. That's why we ask to return the section, that's why we're going to vote against an exclusive, non-inclusive budget, because, as President Married said and says, you said you wouldn't leave anyone behind and the reality is that you're not leaving anyone standing. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u208	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u209	Thank you, President. Minister, good afternoon. I begin by addressing his lords and lords of the PSOE and the Bohemian-bourgeois of Podemos. I think they already know that these accounts increase spending by generating an obese and inoperative structure and that income is invented that nobody believes. It is not catastrophic, it is not a question of the right, it is not a question of the left, it is a question of indebtedness and superfluous expenses and in the midst of the pandemic. Mr. Elorza, by the way, you are a lot to miss people, where is the President of the Government? I haven't seen him since Monday. I don't know if you'll have such a big agenda that you're not even looking at your own budgets. I remind you that these are your stories, your forgiveness, your accounts. We had tabled several amendments on inclusion, but the PSOE, Podemos and Compagnie did not want them to be debated, directly vetoed them. I would like to highlight the Government's veto of the amendment that we are introducing in particular to bring about the reinstatement of the dependent child benefit - yes, progressive gentlemen, the dependent child benefit -, which is difficult to understand when you call yourselves the super-progressive government and claim to be with people. They stand up as the defenders of the weakest, but as soon as they can, they hatch. We can already call them caste, can't we, Lords of Podemos, or what's left of Lords of Podemos? Now, about raising the salary and putting in an indecent number of advisors, they haven't forgotten that. As far as migration is concerned, they must address the chaos that has been generated in the Canary Islands as a matter of urgency. We have asked for all the appearances, including yours too, minister - go prepare it - that of Vice President Calvo and again the umpteenth reprobation and resignation of the Minister of the Interior, who has again demonstrated his already traditional inability to address problems of a certain entity. Minister, let us miss out on policies that favour legal and orderly migration and resolutely fight against the mafias. That's the real problem. That's why I'm telling you, minister: get on with it, you're late. We are going to propose solutions, both in the Commission and here. Make possible, together with the Ministry of the Interior, the consideration, which we have already recorded in this House, of the Campo de Gibraltar as an area of special singularity. The security of the citizens of the area deserves it. In the area of social security, I would just like to refer, as you have done, to the Toledo Pacts, of which I have had the honour of being a party. You know them well enough. In fact, there is an impression of you in these agreements. We will be awaiting the implementation of the far-reaching social security reforms that derive from them, although in these budgets I have to say that we have seen few gestures that invite you to think that you are going to do what the Commission has agreed next year. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, some of its budgetary and government partners did not sign this historic agreement. Let's see how you'll fix it between yourselves, Mr. Escriva. They will have to convince Bildu and Esquerra, who have been excluded from that pact, of that reform. Lucky and the bull, he's gonna need it. We also see that the Government has vetoed the creation of a single social security agency, which we proposed and also proposed in the Toledo Pact, so that a tax agency would have significantly improved the management and rationalization of expenditure. Let's keep proposing it, Mr. Escrivá. By the way, Minister, minimum living income is chaos. You defend it, but it's chaos. Also, gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, now that they have already included Bildu and Esquerra in the government - and I do not say this myself - will also have to explain the fact that the Treasury withdraws the reinforced control over the Generalitat's expenses in Catalonia. With this measure we all know that the independenceists will be able to freely manufacture their illusory Catalan republic, besides with public money and exclude half the Catalans from public administration. The damage they're doing with this deal is infinite. I know that it bothers you - I would also bother me, sincerely - but you will have to listen day and day also that you have put in La Moncloa to Bildu, those who are not here. They are not here - the same Member of the People's Party has said -, they have not been in the whole negotiation, in the whole budgetary debate, nor Esquerra, they are not interested. They vote yes, but they don't care. It's curious. They only care about one thing they said they were never going to do, for their wages, like Rufian saying he was going to give it back to the year he was here. No, it has not returned it, in fact it continues to charge and, moreover, now it has entered the government. They will also have to hear that they have put Esquerra and Podemos in La Moncloa offering pardons to imprisoned politicians and the independenceists announcing their self-determination, as Bildu is already doing. They are liquidating Spain at the worst time, when the people are suffering the most. I'm done, President. On the first day a Member of the Socialist Group asked us what was bothering us about these budgets that we had not talked about. Simancas also said that we were not talking about accounts, that we were talking about other things. Well, I'm going to tell you a few small sentences about what bothers us about these budgets. We are annoyed by the exponential increase in advisors and fingerpoints; we are annoyed by the irrigation with public money to ideological organizations without any use for citizenship, including leftover ministries; terrible and irreversible assignments to the independenceists who are going to sow and water the seeds of the end of our state model; massive tax increases when the pockets of the Spaniards are more empty and Europe is also dictating us another way; we are annoyed by the revenues they claim to have. And why? Because they belong to a Spielberg movie. Your Honor, I can go on, but I'll sum it up in a sentence and I'll finish. These budgets are a usury mortgage for our children. We're going to pay dearly for this waste. These are not budgets, it is the first issue of the forward selling of the state model which, with its successes and errors, has brought us to where we are today, to the forefront of Europe. I was going to tell them they're going to pay for it, but I'm going to correct myself: we're going to pay for it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u210	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u211	Thank you, President. I wish to begin by condemning the murder at the hands of your husband of a woman in Pontevedra. We want each other alive. [[Applauds]] I would like to start by making memory and a little history to understand how important these budgets are and, in particular, those that have to do with the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration that we are discussing. Next Friday will be forty-three years since the Andalusian people flooded the streets to demand that the Spanish Constitution recognize them the same level of self-government that was to be recognized in Catalonia, Basque Country and Galicia. That of 4 December 1977 was a demonstration against memory and for sovereignty. Andalusia was well advanced in its autonomy status during the Second Republic, but was unable to complete its drafting, as Catalonia, the Basque Country and Galicia did, by the Franco coup d'état of July 1936. This mass demonstration of 1977 enabled the drafting of article 151 of the Constitution enabling the procedure - albeit infamous - by which Andalusia, after passing unjustly through the twelve tests of Asterix, obtained its status of autonomy. In addition, Andalusia was a precedent for other territories. Andalusia has always been and will be so, as identity and sovereignist as solidarity. Perhaps that solidarity was the one that, consciously and tortically misinterpreted, made it possible for many governments for more than forty years to think - and listen to me well, I am talking about Governments both of Moncloa and of San Telmo - that Andalusia could assume constant ill-treatment in the budgets. But no, the Andalusian people are supportive and not idiotic. We fought for an Andalusian like the most. While the ultra-right government and the hatred of the Andalusian Junta - of PP, Citizens and VOX - cuts in social rights, in these budgets the progressive coalition government increases and strengthens them. I focus now on explaining this. These budgets, at last, respect our status of autonomy and put an end to a decade of underfunding. While the Andalusian right-wing government cuts welfare pensions by EUR 250 000, these budgets set a 0.9% revaluation and double the CPI for non-contributory pensions, by the way the most impoverished and those affecting mostly women. This will improve the lives of 1.7 million pensioners in Andalusia. While the Government of the Right of Andalusia reduces the opening hours of shops and hotels, condemning companies to closure and many people to unemployment without any alternative or any other plan, this government of progressive coalition assumes in these budgets, for the first time, the quotas of cessation of activity for the self-employed. While the right-wing government of Andalusia cuts the minimum income by 20 million, leaving the most vulnerable people in my land to waste, the progressive coalition government creates a new right, the minimum living income, which will improve the lives of many people throughout the state and to 270,000 Andalusian households that are having a really bad time. While the Right-wing Government of Andalusia reduces the funding of migration policy by almost EUR 2 million and in Murcia a special racist and hateful Commission is set up on the consequences - or so-called - socio-sanitary and security consequences of the arrival of migrants, the Progressive Coalition Government increases the share of actions in favour of migrants by EUR 106 million. By the way, there is much talk about the Canary Islands and it is true that there is a very complicated situation, but today I have not heard of the burning of temporary and temporary settlements that took place in Niger yesterday. [[Applauds]] That is why I ask this ministry to continue working to put an end to this situation of years, years and years of violation of the rights of working people on my land. While the Government of Andalusia, a negationist of macho violence, cuts women's rights and gives a million euros to anti-abortion groups, we say to them: right to decide on our own bodies. In addition, this Government, and in particular this Ministry and also the Ministry of Equality of Irene Montero, increases the funding of the State Pact against Gender Violence and culminates in equal and non-transferable permits to sixteen weeks for the care of minors and for the promotion of co-responsibility, which will affect 66,000 Andalusian families. I'm done. There are two ways out of the crisis, that of the right bank, that of the same prescription expired and inadequate of cuts, of empty airports and now also of hospitals without sanitary, with the name of a president to become a bus, like that of Madrid. Or ours, that of United Podemos and that of this coalition government, to get out with more social commitment, with more public investment and with measures that extend and expand rights. That's why I'm proud to be part of the We Can and that We Can be part of this coalition government. That is why we will work from Andalusia so that in two years we can end the present retrograde and ultra-right government of PP, Citizens and VOX. For Andalusia where hundreds of Andalusians and Andalusians fought like Blas Infante, García Lorca, García Caparrós, Carmen Burgos, María Zambrano or La Cigarrera I dream that my land can have budgets very soon with this social spirit and a government that places Andalusia in the place it deserves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco Carmona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u213	Do you know something, ladies and gentlemen? Here in this Chamber there is no left, there is no right and there is no centre. We've been talking about left and right for a while, but it's not reality. Here in this Congress there are only two parties: globalism and homeland. [[Applauds]] These budgets are the budgets of globalism and we stand against globalism and present an amendment to the whole suicidal budget of globalism, which has not come to save anyone but to enslave all the peoples of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing in this debate with two sections, 32 and 60, of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, and it strongly draws attention to the fact that you are going to spend EUR 340 million on subsidising chiringuitos that encourage immigration; EUR 340 million that come out of the sacrifice and effort of the Spaniards. Security guards who make hundreds of extra hours to bring a decent salary to their homes; waiters who sacrifice hours with their children to be able to pay the mortgage; pensioners who choose between medicines or eat, between masks or milk; mothers who kill themselves to work cleaning portals to give a toy to their children for Christmas; millions of empty refrigerators; hundreds of thousands of autonomous ruined; families who will be left homeless by debts and thousands and thousands of Spaniards in the queues of hunger. Do you know what these General State Budgets are for? Do you know what money these thousands and thousands of families have been so hard to earn for? To encourage immigration invasion, yes, to turn humble neighborhoods into multicultural terns, yes, because it sends the agenda, because they send the elites, because it sends the great capital that wants mass immigration to be Europe's demographic and economic lifesaver. [[Applauds]] They send the enemies of the homeland. And you know what? That you, left and right, obey. Are they aware that they are playing with the neighborhoods of the Spaniards, who run the risk of becoming Leyton or Molenbeek? Could you sleep quietly if you were afraid because you're arresting a jihadist on the street next door? Because this is happening in the humble neighborhoods of humble Spaniards, who are indeed being afraid of this. He spent months in El Puche, in Almería, but also a few weeks ago in the municipality of Mogán, in Gran Canaria, where a group of twelve-year-olds told me: Here is the portal where they arrested the jihadist. I am glad that you are not the parents of those children who have to live with this, but I can only worry about the Spaniards who do live it and the threat that jihadism poses to Europe. I've told you before, but you can't be further away from the real world. This is not seen from their penthouses in the center of Madrid, from their walled urbanizations or from the windows of their mansions. [[rumors]] [[Protests]] Nor are their colleagues, the leaders of NGOs with billionaire payrolls, who profit from trafficking in human beings. NGOs... [[Rumors]] Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry. There are some NGOs like CEAR, for which you provide subsidies of 47 500 000 euros in this exercise, the same CEAR that attacked our guards in El Tarajal for doing their job. The Spanish Committee on Aid to Refugees, which does not help refugees, ladies and gentlemen, because what enters Spain are not refugees, are immigrants of an economic nature. Its Secretary of State for Migration said here, in the parliamentary seat, that what comes is raped women fleeing the war. They are neither women nor come from any war. Following their own approaches, perhaps among those who come would be those who violate them. Ladies and gentlemen, what war is there in Morocco? What war is there in Algeria? What war is there in Mauritania? They are not refugees, they are immigrants, they are men and they are young, and you also know it. [[Applauds]] But they've come to save the world, because they come to save the world, right? The Minister for Migration comes to save the world, comes to save the Moroccans, the Mauritanians, the Algerians, the Malians, the nationals of Gambia, Niger, Ghana and Liberia. Mr. Escriva has come to save us all. But do you know what the price Mr. Escriva has paid? Abandoning the Spaniards. Have you stopped to look at how much the Social Security budget increases? Four percent. Do you know how much pensions have increased? 0.9% of contributions, 1.8% of non-contributory contributions. Do you know how much child benefits have increased for severely disabled children over the age of eighteen? 0.9 per cent. And do you know how much funding has increased to the State Secretariat for Migration? 46.2%, in 150 million euros, ladies and gentlemen, this is a shame. The Spaniards who have been paying for years to get decent pensions, what is not expected is that their savings are there, paying at 300 000 euros a day the hotels to immigrants in the Canary Islands or Almeria, with full pension and party included with the Red Cross, to which we give 90 million euros. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Today it is published in the Official Gazette of the State which allocates 10 million to the MENA for their psychosocial care in the Canary Islands, when the youth unemployment of people under 20 years of age in the Canary Islands is 88%, ladies and gentlemen. Seriously, this is a shame. Moreover, you are humiliating millions of workers, making them believe that making partial amendments to unworthy budgets is working. That's not working, working is breaking your back in a play and arriving on Sunday at 8:00 p.m. without seeing your kids. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You are the fluff of a government that seeks to squander what is so hard to produce. Ladies and gentlemen, you are on sale to globalism, but Spain is not on sale. And I choose country. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u214	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Baños Ruiz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u215	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to address you for the first time from this rostrum, but believe me if I tell you that I am doing so with some concern for the dislating that of reality is being done by the right-wing on the valuation of the most social budgets in the history of Spain. Perhaps what really bothers them is that these budgets come to cut down the social cracks that provoked and deepened their policies in the government, ideological policies clearly, the same ideology they have now, and that all they pursue is what they achieved and that we still suffer today: poorer and more social fracture. Because the poorer the people are, the more vulnerable they are to precariousness, injustice and miserable conditions at work. And do you know what the socialist recipe for precariousness and poverty is, ladies and gentlemen? Redistribution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, of Citizens, of VOX, of Junts per Catalunya, the no-squadron, do you have the same ideology? These General State Budgets are committed to redistribution, put social justice at the centre of politics, increase social spending with the largest increase in history in this heading. Think well of your vote all those who claim to represent the working and middle classes, think well of your votes, because the increase is 239 765 million euros. With this increase, budgets will be obtained that will be poured through the principles of cohesion, social justice, the fight against inequality and inclusive economic growth. The development of inclusion in the State's General Budgets reflects the three fields of work of the Ministry of Inclusion: on the one hand, the impact of gender policy, because poverty always worsens and punishes women's lives. A second field of work is the 2030 Agenda, which is why the Ministry created the General Secretariat for Objectives and Inclusion Policy, one of which is precisely the eradication of poverty. And the third field of work is social services and social promotion, where this policy of minimum living income is born and the main policy is established to eliminate the severe poverty that our country has. As we all know, minimum living income was born at a time of crucial need, and little by little, of course, we have to improve it and we are in parliamentary process to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, those who vote against these budgets will be doing so de facto against minimum living income, against aid to businesses, to self-employed workers, also to hospitality, also against European funds, in their consciences and citizens will be able to interpret it. You, who call aid to the self-employed, the workers and the poor a waste, know - as you know - that you will be able to go ahead because these General State Budgets will be approved, which will not leave anyone behind, as the President of the Government said at first. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u216	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Diouf Dioh has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u217	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we have to address a health emergency situation with a shortage of resources for inefficient inherited management, in the last budgets discussed today, which are so necessary for this country, we are all less you, gentlemen of the PP and of VOX. Gentlemen of the PP, the first Aliens Act, the Socialist Party; the right to vote for immigrants, the Socialist Party; improvements in the reform of the Aliens Act, the Socialist Party; which has allowed cooperation today to have the weight it has in Spain, the Socialist Party. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] Lessons in migration, none. The PP has always implemented containment policies, measures and patch solutions. Today, the progressive Government is creating a system for managing predictable and reliable immigration with countries of origin and transit, both in Europe and internationally, to achieve secure, regular and orderly immigration. At such a key moment as this, to discuss and address the socio-economic situation through the approval of these budgets, the PP remains installed in the micropolitics behind the interests of the Spanish. With or without you, we continue to make progress, a legitimate and progressive government, and that is why we are here today defending the state's budgets. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, with a linear speech on Monday, the lies on Tuesday and today a speech full of bulls, falsehoods and hatred, do not bring absolutely nothing to the parliamentary debate or to the migratory reality, nor give life to Spain. [[Applauds]] We leave no one behind, nor - remember - classifying immigrant people. Madam VOX spokesperson, immigrants are people like you and me. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and some members of the Government, on the ground]] I'm one of them, deputy like you, Mrs. De Meer. Be responsible and acknowledge that these budgets triple the previous allocation by more than EUR 106 million. The reality is that, gentlemen of VOX, diversity is an opportunity, inclusion is the only way to look to the future. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and some members of the Government, who have stood]] Finally, since you speak of the Canary Islands, from here I wanted to thank you for the solidarity of the Canary people, for the work that is being done by the Government of Spain, of Salvamento Marítimo, of all the people in good faith who are helping to make the immigrant population feel good in Spain. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal and some members of the Government, who have stood]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u218	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, the debate in section 33, Ministry of Universities, is relevant. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I compare with you to present the budget of the Ministry of Universities for 2021. This budget is within the framework of the General Budgets of the State which our Government presents to you. These are the most expansive budgets of our recent history that, if approved, will allow to attend to the health emergency..., [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u221	... reactivate the economy in the short term and remedy the social emergencies resulting from the impact of the pandemic. The General State Budgets proposed by the Government include a social expenditure of almost 240 billion euros, the largest in history, and consolidate the protection of the welfare state and in particular of the education system at all its academic levels. In particular, expenditure on education at all levels of 4893 million and expenditure on research, development, innovation and digitisation of 11 483 million are proposed, an increase of 70% and 80% respectively. Although this expenditure is distributed in various ministries - in particular, education, science, economic affairs - the university system, for which this ministry is responsible, benefits from all these budget lines coordinated by the Government. Thus, the scholarship programme, jointly managed by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training and the Ministry of Universities, increases by 35% over the 22% increase already in 2020, reaching 2090 million. Approximately 40% of scholarships and 60% of scholarship expenditure correspond to higher education. Similarly, from investments in scientific and technical equipment, universities benefit from 73 % of the funds. With regard specifically to budget section 33 on the Ministry of Universities, the consolidated budget for 2021 is 494.34 million, an increase of 94.3 per cent by 2021. I would like to stress that the staff costs of this budget and of the ministry represent only 2% of the total and the current expenditure on goods and services 1%, which means that 97% of our budget is spent on expenses that directly benefit the university community as a whole, obviously not counting the funding of public universities, which is the competence of the autonomous communities and for what they have the State transfers for their total expenditure. The State General Budgets foresees an increase in transfers to the autonomous communities by 9%, which is more than 146 billion, i.e. 12,135 million more than in 2020. We assume and hope that, with these transfers, the autonomous communities will increase the funding of universities according to their criteria and within their competences, but bearing in mind that the resources of all public universities have been reduced by 21% in the last decade thanks to the policy of conservative governments. In terms of expenditure on education policies, programme 322.C, for university education, has an amount of EUR 136.13 million, i.e. a 4% increase. This includes, in particular, the new European University Programme co-financed with the European Commission and the funding of the National University of Distance Education. Our ministry has made the strategic decision to strengthen and digitize UNED, a large state university, the only one that, together with the Menéndez Pelayo International University, and while maintaining its full autonomy, has a direct link with the ministry. While UNED has always been an institution of excellence in our country, its role is now more decisive than ever because of the contribution of its semi-presential teaching methodology to the distance education imposed by the pandemic, and it also opens up a way forward for the diversification of quality-guaranteeed teaching modalities. Consequently, to the regular transfer of the 2020 budget, which was almost EUR 74 million, EUR 17 680 000 is added up to EUR 91 647 832, i.e. a 24% increase for the UNED budget. In addition, this draft State General Budgets authorizes UNED to resort to borrowing for an amount of EUR 10 million to complete the construction of the new building of the Faculty of Sciences. As regards the 323.M programme of scholarships and grants to students with a total of 39.3 million, this programme is not included in the general programme of scholarships already exposed. This includes scholarships from Menéndez Pelayo International University, national end-of-care awards dedicated to the excellence and co-financing of the Erasmus Programme which manages Sepie, under the Ministry, while maintaining the national co-financing of the Erasmus+ Programme with 30 million euros. As regards expenditure on research, development and innovation policies, as well as digitisation, universities are the main beneficiaries of the programmes convened by the State Research Agency, whose budget is, as you know, in the section on the Ministry of Science and Innovation. In addition, with regard to the section of our ministry, section 33, the following programmes should be highlighted. The 463.A programme for scientific research, with a 10% increase - i.e. 104.43 million - which includes training aids for university teachers. In 2021, according to this budget, we will increase the programme by EUR 10 million, which will allow the call for 1050 aid, i.e. 200 more than in 2020. Also, we keep the 100 assists Beatriz Galindo for the attraction of talent. The new programme 460.A, entitled research, development and innovation, within the European Funded Mechanism for Recovery and Resilience, budgeted at 203.9 million, of which we highlight the redevelopment and mobility of teaching and research staff with 129.05 million and the modernization and digitalization of the university system with 74.85 million. At the same time, we have modified in these General State Budgets the replacement rate for public universities as a result of including universities as a priority sector at the request of the Ministry. Therefore, the replacement rate for teachers and researchers is increased by 110 per cent. In addition, public universities will be able to transfer the surplus of their replacement rate to another university within the same autonomous community and the autonomous communities will be able to transfer the replacement rates that they will not use themselves to their public universities within the same community. These are essential elements to promote the necessary rejuvenation of staff. As far as external expenditure is concerned, international cooperation, promotion and dissemination of education abroad are estimated in our budget at almost EUR 2 million. With regard to the autonomous bodies, the Menéndez Pelayo International University, which plays a fundamental role in the intellectual dynamism of our society, receives an increase of 16.8% for operating expenses, up to a total budget of 24,882,000 euros. Sepie, the international branch of the ministry, increases the budget by 14%, reaching 42,640,000 euros. In this context, we maintain national co-financing with the European Commission of the Erasmus+ programme. And Aneca, the autonomous agency for the evaluation and accreditation of teachers, programmes and titles, receives an increase of 2.69%, until reaching a budget of 12,578,750 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of amendments, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u223	Thank you, President. Minister, I'm so glad to have you here. I would like to begin by asking you about a question that seems nuclear to me in the balance of revenue and expenditure of these budgets. The truth is that it is not in any game itself, but it has conditioned all the others. I am referring to one of the advance payments that your Government has made to secessionism in order to have the secessionist vote for this law: the elimination of the vehicles of the Castilian. Last Wednesday you made some least curious statements. In technical terms, they could be part of what David Roberts calls post-truth and, in Paladin Roman, being well thought out, either they are a mistake or they are a lie. I'll refresh your memory. You told journalists that before 2013 there was no legal indication that Spanish should be a language of communication and there was never any problem in Catalonia. I wanted to ask you two questions - I will start with the second and then I will go to the first -: first question, what do you mean by problem. Do you think that the parents who cannot school our children in their mother tongue, not even 25%, and that these children are harmed in their final competence - as they have shown studies like those of Professor Calero - is no problem? Do you think that it is not a problem that has to be brought to justice to ensure that fundamental rights are respected and that part of the population is trampled on? I shall refer to the second question. You said that before 2013 there was no legal indication that Spanish is a vehicle language. What do you think are court rulings, love letters? For me, up to now, these are legal indications, and I remind you that the ruling of the statute says, with a meridian clarity, that all official languages must be vehicular. What I have just told you - you will tell me: small butade - is relevant, because this is what the Spaniards will have as a result of the election that Sanchez has made: totalitarianism under a housing of normality and kindness, for the moment. Minister Castells, if there is a section that I have had to revise budgets - and I have had to revise quite a few - that for me reflects the essence of populism and nationalism I feel like telling you that it is yours, that of universities. Of course, we would not have included them or at least would not have included them in the same way as you have. For example, I would never have put in a sum of almost EUR 1 million for Catalan universities alone to hold a conference even with UNESCO, because I would have involved centres throughout the national territory and, above all, I would have negotiated not to have to pay that amount and to be able to allocate that money to the internationalization of all universities and to the improvement of teacher training, for example. I have made you an amendment that I have not been admitted to. For example, I would never have put in item 22,706, where there are a million eurazos for technical work of your ministry without specifying; above all, I would not do it if I was to get news as you are getting out that you are giving campaigns to exassayers of Podemos or that you are placing certain people in certain positions, because I would have dedicated that million euros to the reduction, for example, of the digital divide of teachers and students. I have made an amendment and you have rejected it. For example, I would have tried - I agree with you - to combat job insecurity, but I would not have done it as you did; I would have done it by increasing chapter 1 of the universities, because it is the one that allows creating new places of creation and that teachers who have years and years of career trying to have a job stability could be consolidated, and I would not have done it by increasing internal promotion in the terms in which you do it, which - I told the PP at the time - favors endogamy. We would also have tried to ensure the depoliticisation of the university, for example, by making universities have an obligation to publish an RPT, a job relationship, to promote transparency and competitive competition and that this job relationship is linked to the teaching and research needs, not to the amount of teaching staff, but I have proposed it in an amendment and neither have they accepted it. What they have done, on the contrary, is, in fact - you have explained it here - to open the way for the Administration and public universities to yield to each other, among them, the replacement rate, which from my humble point of view looks fatal because it can fall into: I have people left here, I cannot place it, I pass it to you. We, for example, would have increased the actual budget of UNED, which is of particular importance in the current context. We would not have left everything at the top of the European funds because we do not have them yet and they are about to arrive, but you have also not admitted this amendment to me. I understand you, because it is clear that your university model - the university model you are proposing - has nothing to do with the university model you are proposing Citizens - which I am proposing - because you are very concerned about ideologies - are reflected in the budgets with the amendments you have made - you are very concerned about entities and you are very concerned about tying power, and we have other objectives. We believe that the university's objective must be to ensure the improvement and quality of education and training for students, and to do so we must empower both the PAS and the faculty. We have tabled a number of amendments which we considered to be very important, some of which do not cost a lot of money and would help the students a lot. For example, we have proposed an amendment to introduce regulatory changes so that students can receive the scholarship in January and not later; we have not been admitted. We have also requested the reimbursement of fees paid during this course, because there are many people who are going to have problems, and neither have they admitted it; it is a different concept from equity. In short, they are very different models: in front of a model of excellence, of sanity, there is another more ideological model, and the truth is that I have to congratulate you because you have won yours. It's a shame for me, but it's a pity it's also going to be a pity for all the Spaniards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u224	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u225	Thank you, President. I would like to begin, Minister, if you will allow me, with some reference to the fellow Member of the House of Citizens who has spoken, because she has used some arguments that rouse demagogy and populism. I don't know what you want me to say. If the same UNESCO conference instead of being with Catalan universities had been with Andalusians, Galicians or Madridns would not worry them at all and would find it absolutely normal, just as they should fit this. Trying to demagogue on these issues, you may think it helps you because you have a campaign in Catalonia and I don't know if there you are going to try to scratch some vote with this argument, but using arguments with so little weight precisely in the university section, I don't think it helps anyone. Having said that, Minister, in any case I must congratulate you on the fact that few university ministers have been able to manage a budget such as that which you have at your disposal. I know it's insufficient, surely you're not happy either, but in any case you have a challenge and it's how to execute this budget. Now they have it and this is their responsibility and those of us who approve the budget today, I have said on more than one occasion, we will have the responsibility, from 1 January, to demand that this budget be implemented. I have also come up to this rostrum to comment on an amendment, which, although it is not strictly to this section because it was in the section, affected its ministry and which we have negotiated with the Government, and it is the one that will allow the viability of the UOC. The UOC, the Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, is a university that had a very specific problem with tutor teachers, who had to work. The UOC has a characteristic and is that, although it is not a public university, it is a university created at the request of the Generalitat de Catalunya and with partial funding by the Generalitat de Catalunya, and most important: with public prices. And since it has these characteristics, we understood that the same regime should be given to tutor teachers as that which could be given to associate professors of the public university, as established by the Law of Universities. This has been facilitated and it has been with an amendment that I believe can also favor UNED - which is another university at a distance, which I know very well because I have been mayor of Tortosa, where I had an associated center - but essentially it will guarantee the continuity of the UOC, which is doing a job, and you know it perfectly, important for Catalonia. It can also be important for other autonomous communities that have the same initiatives, I say in case someone thinks this is a custom-made suit again. The amendment puts it: autonomous communities, and the minister had a lot of interest in it appearing this way. Therefore, let no one see it as a privilege strictly to the Catalans. With the current wording, any autonomous community that has the initiative to create a university with these characteristics - I repeat, most importantly, at public prices - will have the same treatment. In any case, Minister, thank you also because from your ministry you have contributed to this transactional and very lucky with budget execution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u226	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u227	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, of a very long day now. I've seen a lot of self-congratulation, Mr. Castells, even a numerical engineering that doesn't fit. Minister, these are the budgets for the deconstruction of university policy. I'll explain it to you immediately. Deconstruction in the kitchen is often a technique of success. But not for college, here is a loss of strength and efficiency. That is what they have chosen in that ministerial dispersion. Thus Education is misunderstood, because it is to something else, and Science looks elsewhere or towards space, because this from the university is a mess and already tried it a timer. This is not the budget that you announced to us exultantly in your appearances in the Commission, nor is it the one that the left-wing groups who support the Government with that slogan of an extraordinary budget for an extraordinary moment. I wish! There's no spectacular climb like the one they're proclaiming. Look at this simple picture. [[Show a document with a map of Spain]] Budget 2018, 285 million, a little more; the unborn budgets 2019, 295 million, and the current, 290 million, a little more: the same programs with different ministerial structure. In these budgets there is no design to implement the necessary policies in the university in this long pandemic, nor an allusion in the structural headings. There is makeup in the shadow of the European funds of the Recovery Mechanism, which trusts the policies that are needed today and the structural measures for which this fund was not thought, which unfortunately comes because we are in crisis. We do not know when it will arrive and are projects to be evaluated and approved. Your commitments are not even being met, Minister. Either you lied or they don't take him into account, and I think you didn't lie. Do you remember the number to be determined in order to compensate for the decrease in fees that led to budgets? Do you remember depopulation policies? Do you remember suppressing the replacement rate? Do you remember the students at the center of their policies? Let the universities get away with it, none of that! He is not interested in the policies that the university system needs today in a time of state of alarm, pandemic, but parties and rules à la carte. It does not leave the Basque Country and Catalonia; forgiveness, better, does not come out of the approaches of the independence parties of these two wonderful autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] He looks like a counselor, instead of a minister. They must be delighted. It is clear that there is one task that you do on time: that of a member of that bilateral bureau of shame. Both in its normative plan and in the numbers it remains anchored in the situation of January 2020, and what the subconscious betrayed it and predicted that the world as we knew it was over. And I, look, I keep the hope of getting it back essentially. You said on May 7 in the Science Committee that the 2018 budgets were shame budgets. Now it was your turn, and you've cloned them, with that increase that was gradually occurring at a stage of economic recovery, and now, when all the indices collapse, no serious agency believes those accounts. He said that when they were introduced we would see what budgets are and that we would amend them. Since we're disciplined, we've done it. However, they have said no: not to COVID contingency grants that do not cover education grants supported by the pre-COVID economy or the COVID fund, designed for a short-term transient pandemic; not to support the digital divide of students, and it is now time to resort to online or hybrid education; not to promote and finance accessibility measures in this new scenario for students with disabilities; not to a strategy of active universities and depopulation; not to maintain the minimum amount of 10 million in Beatriz Galindo scholarships, of talent attraction; not to direct aid of 10 million to UNED to complete this indispensable building - it is seen that they do not trust much to have more money, because they resort to indebtedness -; not to UNED associate centres or to support the Canarian universities. And regarding the articulated, we are told not to break with the discrimination of certain retired tutor teachers if they are of passive classes, although so good service they have given to UNED; yes to Security, not to those of passive classes, but those are making territory in depopulated Spain. [[Applauds]] They said they were going to end as quickly as possible the precariousness of the accredited medical associates: we gave them a way for universities to feel the urge to incorporate them as soon as possible. No to the report on the impact of COVID measures, which would help to plan the measures for students. And really, Mr. Castells, don't listen to me, listen to yourself. You know that you promised me at the first appearance, that you promised it to all the members of the Commission; you told us that you were personally taking care of a study regarding the abandonment of university students. At this time the abandonment of first-degree students is impressive. You have to study the impact and you are a specialist. Tell the groups who have said not to. And do you know what they said yes to, as Mr Bel just exposed - to PP nothing -? Surprisingly, to a new amendment of the Organic Law of Universities by the back door, without having the unions, without having the UNED, without having the other universities, without having the groups. There are eighty-three universities, ladies and gentlemen; a private university - yes, private, legal person under private law - with public prices, the highest in all of Spain. They do not respond to the legal status of UNED guardians, and, by surprise and without talking to them, they incorporate this amendment. They favor a university, their university. This isn't a receipt. Remember you talked about the virtual university scam? It's gone too far. But now he also announces a decree. Let's be vigilant. This transaction...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u228	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u229	I'll be right out.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u230	No, it has to end now. Your time's up. Thank you very much, Your Honor. In turn of fixing positions, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mrs Márquez Guerrero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u231	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good night. I would like to begin the intervention by thanking university professors, students, administration staff and services for how they are facing the health crisis in our country's universities. I know that it is not being simple, and that is precisely why the collective effort of the university community deserves our full recognition. This effort must be especially valued, because universities were the public institutions that suffered the most from the 2008 crisis. In this situation of structural fragility in which they remained they have had to face a pandemic that has tested their capacity for resistance and resilience, because, despite these hyperbolic and catastrophic discourses, universities, in that effort to combat the consequences of the pandemic, are growing, giving themselves the best of themselves. Universities, a source of knowledge, research and innovation, are a powerful engine of development and general well-being, a place where new generations must be trained, facing a often very uncertain future. That is why it is time for the public authorities, within the competitive framework that we have given ourselves, to reach out to our university system. And that moment is that of the General Budgets of the State, which can well be described - I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the PP - not as a deconstruction, but as the budgets of university reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to assess what we have, we must not forget where we come from. Precisely during the governments of the People's Party from 2011 to 2018 the amount of university scholarships was reduced, on average, 332 euros, by 13,21 %. Only between 2012 and 2015 did Spanish universities lose 120,000 students, and we were not in a pandemic, largely due to the high rise in the rates of Minister Wert. Faced with this, the current budgets project a 35% increase in scholarships, up to 2090 million euros, because studying at university is a right, also for the daughters and children of the working class. [[Applauds]] These budgets focus on the needs of our system. That's why they include 10 million more for the FPU, about 80 million to strengthen the digital capabilities of our universities, the 110% increase in the IDP replacement rate and 20 million for internationalization. Whatever they say, the budgets for universities are doubled compared to the previous ones. They are courageous and ambitious budgets and will allow us to make much progress in the defence and reinforcement of public universities. Obviously, they will not allow us to achieve everything we would have wanted. That is why we will continue to work to correct the accumulated deficiencies in the past decade lost. We do not regard these budgets as a goal or a point of arrival but rather represent a start, a new starting point. In order to correct the structural shortcomings we are talking about, it will be necessary to involve all the administrations, all the actors in the university community, in a process of continuous improvement. You have to listen, you have to listen to the young teachers, who have not been able to consolidate their career because there were not enough places; you have to listen to the academic women, who continue to suffer from the glass ceiling. This Monday, the 30th was the anniversary of the birth of Margarita Salas, a scientist who began the development of molecular biology in Spain, the first woman to receive in 2016 the Echegaray Medal of the Royal Academy of Exact, Physical and Natural Sciences. [[Applauds]] She herself recalled that when she began her doctoral thesis in biochemistry, the woman did not consider herself fit for research. The ladies of VOX surely think that Margarita Salas was also possessed by that egalitarian obsession, as they call it. Today only one in five chairs is occupied by a woman. Have we made progress? Yeah, but we've got a lot left to do. It is necessary to listen to students, who see with concern their future work; to research groups, who need resources to ensure their continuity; to administrative staff and services, from which we can learn a lot about how to manage. We must listen, listen and listen, and all this from the priority defense of the public, without complexes, with the greatest pride, because if some had believed that the word university could be used as a mere commercial resource for profit they were wrong. The engine of the university is knowledge, quality in research and training. Therefore, in the center of knowledge there should be no room for vulture funds. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u232	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Hernández has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u233	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, more than 1500 partial amendments, right? Have you made a calculation of how many will go on, more or less? I think he looks pretty bad. But cheer up! Cheer up, you'll make it in the end. [[Applauds]] Deputy of Podemos, look how we know who Margarita Salas is in VOX that in the City Hall of Madrid, on our proposal, we have paid a special tribute to her, which no one on the left has done. See if we know who Mrs. Salas is! [[Applauds]] Minister, I threw the towel with you, and I'm going to tell you why. I don't expect you to send me the book you promised me, I don't need it anymore. Do you know what I've done? I've collected all your public comments and I already know you, I know how you think. For example: 'Speaking very clearly, I personally disagree'. These are his words, remember?, in the takeover of the wallet. You did not believe in this ministry. But the one I like best is this: 'The most important thing in the United States is that there is no Ministry of Universities'. That's a good one, Minister! [[Applauds]] With these demonstrations you would almost have to close the book and leave, because there is no one who amends you, you amend yourself; no one else is needed, you amend yourself. In any case, I'll go to some specific games. We speak of UNED, the largest university in Spain by number of students, the most modest, the worst funded by the Ministry of Universities. It is not your fault; indeed, it comes from a long time before. It is a university that performs the most important social work by vertebrating the territory, and especially at this time of the digital divide, in which it is especially necessary. It is also an example of equal opportunities: the same studies, the same subjects in each grade, the same examinations, the same means and the same levels of demand throughout Spain, and yet it is the worst Spanish university, the worst, according to U-Ranking 2020. And why this? This was clearly explained by the Secretary General of Universities at his appearance at the Commission on 29 January 2019. He said: The truth is that one of the things that hurt me the most when I arrived at the General Secretariat has been to think that UNED has not been treated well; for whatever reasons it is - he said - I will not go into why yes and why not, I simply suffered a rather important aggravation with regard to the universities that were transferred to the autonomous communities. With all this, this government, so social and so progressive, goes from providing UNED with €68.5 million for current transfers in 2020 to - guess - the same amount in 2021, not another euro. So progressive that they are and so social that they are! [[The Minister of Universities, Castells Oliván, makes negative signs]] By current transfers; yes, yes, it is in the numbers. Minister, what is most striking and what is most painful is that it is budgeted to transfer 186 million euros to the autonomous communities for their sectarian universities. How do you eat that? You don't believe in UNED. With these 186 million, 91% of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism was eaten, 91%. And I am going to another game - it has been commented before -: 870 000 euros to the Catalan Association of Public Universities, ACUP. Mr Bel - I don't know if you're in the room -, it's not that it's an association with separatist idealism - we all have flaws - it's that it's also prosedicious, and that's already very serious. [[laughs]] Communiqué of this association on its website of 24 March 2018 showing a deep discomfort for the imprisonment of several leaders and public officials. [[shows a photocopy]] Communiqué dated June 11, 2018, in which it is said that court proceedings express intolerant attitudes against coupsmen in Catalonia. [[shows a photocopy]] A closer one, released on October 3, 2020, which evaluates the disqualification of President Torra and says: Without respecting the decision of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, we consider that it does not help to convey the conflict through political means and through dialogue between institutions and governments. [[shows a photocopy]] This partnership does not deserve a single euro, nor does it deserve a single euro. [[Applauds]] José Luis Borges said that the university should insist on the old and the other; if it insists on the same and the contemporary, the university is useless, because it is performing a function that already fulfills the press. You with this budget, Minister, are turning the university into something useless. I couldn't even tell you that with that attitude of mere observer you've stayed just to warm up the chair. I can't tell you, because your constant absences mean that your seat doesn't stop wondering who that gentleman is sitting on top of you. [[Laughter and applause]] That is why I say to you that this budget must be rejected, because it does not improve the university. Thank you very much. I said. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u234	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Morís has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u235	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start by referring to Mr de VOX. The truth, that we come to speak from VOX of the Asturian Margarita Salas, who four days ago in his native land, in Asturias, in Luarca, has just been given a tribute, and also constant references from the Ministry of Science and from Universities; that comes to speak of Margarita Salas VOX, which denies the gender gap in research, the truth is that it gives enough thought. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing budgets with the greatest social investment in our history, and the university was to be no less. It is committed to the knowledge society and education as one of the pillars of the welfare state. And this must be emphasized, because what is being pursued is precisely that none of our young people are left without the possibility of attending university for socio-economic reasons. That is why they are political budgets, of course, because they set priorities, and education, and more specifically the university system, is one of those priorities. As far as scholarship policy is concerned, it is clearly committed to this budget. It had already been a priority of this Government, one of the strategic axes in education policy in this legislature. It was before and it is now, when we are suffering the worst pandemic of the last century. And we have to remind you of this again, Mrs Moro; yes, yes, you have forgotten, it seems, you have forgotten what the policies of your governments implied, that the People's Party implemented a very harsh policy of cuts and that you not only cut the scholarships but went further and carried out a reform of the model, enhancing the inequality of access to education, whose consequences we are still suffering. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, we are still reversing their policies, the obstacles and difficulties they have created for access to scholarships, whose concept as a subjective right we are recovering from a progressive government by a significant increase in these budgets of 2021. Its aim was no more than quality education was the privilege of a few. I know you don't like it, Mrs Moro, you always tell us in the Commission; I know you don't feel comfortable when we remind you of your policies, but after listening to you there is nothing but comparing models and reminding you of your management: the rise in tuition prices, the tightening of the model of access to scholarships, the reduction of amounts, a lethal combination, which, as you know, led to the loss of thousands of university students. [[Applauds]] His policies served that purpose, to expel students from Spanish universities. That is the reality of their policies, and we must remind them, because, if they were able to expel students, to truncate life expectations, to truncate expectations of personal development, we are not at all surprised by their combative and contemptive attitude towards the best budgets for universities in a long time. We must remind you of the data from these General Budgets: EUR 2090 million, EUR 515 million more than in 2020, 35% more for the state scholarship system; 253 000 university students will benefit from this budgetary policy. As was well said here, the university is education but it is also research; teaching and research go hand in hand, you cannot understand one another without the other. And this budget, also cross-cutting, because the budget must also be seen cross-cutting, prioritizes not only educational policy, but also research policy, science. And here, especially among the gentlemen of VOX, there is a lot of negationism, but there are also many Members, a lot of right-wing Members who only demand greater investment in science when they are in the opposition, but reduce investment when they are in the government. [[Applauds]] They should therefore reflect on their position on scientific policy as well. We are facing a huge increase in research funding, and that also benefits universities, because their researchers participate and compete in these research projects. It is also very important to highlight the increase in the budget for FPU scholarships, the training of university teachers. It is an important bet, which is also made on regular budgets, with the aim of continuity, which will allow to rise from 850 to 1050 predoctoral contracts. This is the basis of the continuity, of the renewal, of the incorporation of new generations, of the generational relief, which will allow the sustainability of our university system from the human point of view. It is important to increase the replacement rate by 110 per cent for both PDI and PAS, as well as to give up the replacement rate from one public university to another within the same autonomous community, a policy of foresight and flexibility that will facilitate starting with stabilization in universities, as well as retention of talent, because it has also been said that there are 15 per cent places for researchers who have completed the Ramon and Cajal Programme and other autonomous, national and international programmes of excellence. This new programme of research, development and innovation of the Recovery Mechanism also lays the foundations for modernization and digitisation as axes of the Spanish university system. There are nearly €70 million in aid in this area, also in the boost to the international retraining and mobility of teaching staff and university researchers. Of these two games, 10 million will also be for UNED, because UNED is also at the centre and heart of the ministry's policies. Universities have a lot to contribute to this country. These ministries provide the basis for these dynamic, active and committed universities to contribute everything they have to bring to the change of our productive system. Gentlemen of the PP, was there really no argument to justify at least thinking about your vote in favour of these budgets? These budgets double the number of universities; they will go ahead despite you, and with them we will continue to strengthen the equal opportunities that makes the Spanish university system one of the most equitable in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-02-CD201202.u236	Thank you so much. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and five minutes of the night.
