ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u1	The meeting was called to order. We again began this session of the Congress of Deputies, under the well-known conditions of reduced presence and telematic monitoring by most Members, expressing as representatives of the citizens our deepest thanks to all those who fight the pandemic and to those who guarantee the basic services and safety of their fellow citizens. We also convey our desire for early recovery to those who suffer from the disease and its consequences. And in the same way, as agreed yesterday by the Board of Spokesmen, we joined in our sympathy and memory for all the dead, keeping a minute of silence. [[The honourable Members present in the Chamber, standing, keep a minute of silence.]] APPLICATION FOR AUTHORIZATION OF THE PROGRESS OF THE STATE OF ALARMA DECLARED BY THE REAL DECORD 463/2020 OF 14 MARCH, DECLARING THE STATE OF ALARMA FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SITUATION OF HEALTH CRISIS OCCUPIED BY COVID-19, PROROGED BY THE REAL DECLARATIONS 476/2020 OF 27 MARCH, 487/2020 OF 10 APRIL, and 492/2020 OF 24 APRIL. [[File number 091/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u2	Discussion of the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decrees 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April and 492/2020 of 24 April. I should like to inform you that the proposals concerning the request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm will be voted on in person at the end of the debate. The plenary session will then be suspended so that those Members who cast their votes electronically can do so with regard to the request for an extension. The sitting shall be resumed and the request for extension shall be put to the vote in person. In order to explain the reasons for the request for an extension, the President of the Government has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Spain has begun its descalation, its transition to new normality. And we have not come this far because the circumstances have taken us, we have not come this far because the virus has lost its ability to contagion; we have reached this point with the effort of thousands and thousands of healthcare professionals and with the sacrifice of millions of Spaniards. His is all the merit of this first victory - partial, but first victory - against the pandemic. I would like to begin this intervention by expressing in words what we have expressed with our silence a few seconds ago, the most sensible condolences to those who have lost their loved ones because of COVID-19 and also by sending the maximum support, the maximum warm support to those who continue to fight the disease in their homes or in hospitals. In our memory there will always be the suffering of so many compatriots, the memory of the victims will last among us. From this moment on, I want to announce to you the following, and that is that at the moment when most of our country is in phase 1 of the descalation, that is, as soon as the streets are retraced in our country and the official buildings visited, the Government will declare the official mourning. And likewise, as soon as the integrity of the country culminates in the descalation and we are all in the new normality - as a result, this new normality is accepted and public health conditions are given - there will be a public tribute to the victims of the epidemic, in which the Government has been working for weeks and I have transmitted it to the head of State, to his majesty the king. Ladies and gentlemen, my appearance in this House today is intended to call once again for an extension of the state of alarm for a period of fourteen days. They are advanced in the sense of the Government's proposal. We have started a victory, as I said before, partial against the virus, with the effort of many health professionals and the sacrifice of all and we have done so with a legal weapon, fully constitutional, as is the state of alarm. We have not been brought here by chance, we have stopped the spread of the epidemic because we have limited the channels of infection of the virus, and we have limited the channels of infection of the virus thanks to the state of alarm and the legal weapons that give us that state of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this on some other occasion, in the management of this pandemic there are no absolute successes - this is evidence - no one always succeeds in an unprecedented situation as that which we are living, as extreme, as complex as this, neither from the government nor from the opposition. There are, therefore, no absolute correctness, but there may be absolute errors, and raising the state of alarm now would be a great absolute error. Before reasoning this request, which is vital to complete the victory in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, allow me to account for the use that has been made of the legal powers granted to us in the more than seven weeks since the state of alarm was first decreed. They all value the importance of continuing with the state of alarm, for health reasons in the first place - primarily health reasons - but also for economic and social reasons. I will start with the economic measures that have been taken and that have been aimed at alleviating the brutal impact of this crisis, which I insist, in addition to health is social and economic. The estimated cost of the measures and guarantees included in the stability programme is EUR 139 billion, of which more than EUR 4300 million is earmarked for health measures, EUR 107 billion for economic measures, EUR 27 billion for labour measures and EUR 816 million for social support. For its part, the Ministry of Health has distributed more than 117 million units of sanitary material, of which 91 million units have been allocated to the autonomous communities, as of 30 April, I repeat, 91 million units, including: masks, more than 82 million units; rapid diagnostic kits, more than 3 million units; nitrile gloves, almost 30 million units; disposable coats, divers and other protective materials, almost 2 million units; and around 1 and a half million material has been distributed between 30 April and today, from purchases made by the Government of Spain and various donations. There are also 60 million manufacturing masks in Spain in the next six months, thanks to the manufacturing equipment that arrived a few days ago, in which the Government of Spain has had much to do, and which will allow our industry a massive manufacture of masks. This industrial relocation will allow us in the future not to be dependent on purchases abroad, in tense and aggressively speculative markets, as we have seen in recent weeks. In several Spanish territories, the manufacture of masks, sanitary material, PPE, hydrogels, respirators and everything that was and is so necessary has begun to develop. It was a step that we had to take and that gives us security in the face of the immediate future. In relation to the actions of the Ministry of Defence, work continues on the presence, recognition, disinfection in critical areas and infrastructure; in forty-seven localities of the national territory and through the Ministry of the Interior, 770,000 proposals for sanctions against citizens for failing to comply with the actual decree of the state of alarm have been collected and nearly 7,000 persons have been arrested. I would like to highlight one important fact, and that is that the number of infringements does not coincide with the number of offenders, as there have been numerous recidivisms. With these numbers in hand, what I can assure you is that 99% of the Spanish population has had more than responsible behaviour, I would say modelly. Spain has been the most disciplined country in the world where measures to restrict mobility and also social activity have been followed. At the last Conference of Autonomous Presidents, last Sunday, I announced the immediate launch of a non-reimbursable reconstruction fund for the autonomous communities, amounting to EUR 16 billion. This is a logically temporary, exceptional instrument outside the autonomous financing system, with which we want to provide the common system's autonomous governments with the resources necessary to share the social and health needs that COVID-19 is going to cause in 2020. This is the largest injection of public money made by the State to the autonomous communities of common system. They will not have to repay it; it does not therefore constitute a loan with repayment periods and interest, as it did in previous crises. The Government has made this decision because it believes that in the current circumstances it must bear the cost of this national threat, COVID-19, in our country. Since we are still awaiting an in-depth reform of the autonomous financing system, which is, by the way, one of the main commitments of the Government of Spain, it would be irresponsible, in our view, to charge such an extraordinary amount of money in the already neglected accounts of the autonomous communities, in particular of some of them. We do so, therefore, without any compensation, assuming the financial cost resulting from it, but I think it is precisely now time to ask the autonomous communities, some autonomous communities, for the future that fiscal co-responsibility. The effort we need in the coming years to overcome this blow cannot be made with tax gifts, as we are seeing, and even less with gifts to those who have the most. The EUR 16 billion fund will consist of three tranches, as I told the autonomous presidents: a first tranche of EUR 6 billion and two more tranches of up to a maximum of EUR 5 billion each in the second half of the year. These EUR 16 billion would cover an impact of EUR 10 billion on health expenditure, EUR 1 billion on social expenditure and a decrease in the income of the autonomous communities quantified by EUR 5 billion due to the fall in economic activity. On the other hand, yesterday, as you know, the Council of Ministers approved the new and third line of endorsements of the ICO. The amount will be EUR 24.5 billion: EUR 10 billion for SMEs and self-employed, EUR 10 billion for the rest of the companies and EUR 4 billion for the alternative fixed income market, in addition to EUR 500 million for Cersa. And with regard to the two lines already launched, of EUR 20 billion each, I would like to detail the following figures. The total number of financing operations amounts to more than 265,000, i.e. 265,000 operations have been endorsed over these more than seven weeks of state of alarm. The approved amount amounts to a total of EUR 26.8 billion - EUR 26.8 billion - and the total funding amounts to more than EUR 35.2 billion, in the form of new loans and other forms of financing and renewals. Most of the guarantees are concentrated in small and medium-sized enterprises, including self-employed workers, which account for 98% of total operations - 98% of total operations - with an approved amount of more than EUR 18 860 million and a total financing of more than EUR 23 600 million. Therefore, 98 % goes to SMEs and self-employed, with an approved amount of EUR 18 860 million and a total financing - I repeat - of more than EUR 23 600 million. In other words, an extraordinary effort to maintain the productive fabric as a result of the stoppage and the closure of economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have done on other occasions from this rostrum, I would also like to take stock of the impact that all the measures we have put in place, from social to economic, are having on citizens. I want to start by talking about science, research and development, something essential to the security, freedom and progress of our country, something essential for a country to combat this pandemic. Let us never forget it again; I believe that this is one of the main conclusions we can draw from this pandemic, because we have tragically verified the vital importance of our science and our researchers. Currently, 44 clinical trials of medicinal products authorized by the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products are being carried out, 12 of them over the last few weeks, involving more than 28 000 researchers; 668 university professors benefit from the extension of their training assistance during the state of alarm; there are 62 hospitals and 4000 professionals working in a trial aimed at seeking alternatives to improve the protection of health professionals in the fight against COVID-19; the Public Health Institute Carlos III leads a European network for the coordination of virological studies on the prevention and control of COVID-19, and the complete sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 was carried out in samples of patients from different parts of Spain, among other decisive actions. In addition, 1731 researchers will continue their work thanks to the extension of their temporary contracts financed by the State Research Agency and the Carlos III Institute of Health. I mean, we've pushed, we're pushing, and we're going to keep doing it when all this happens the protagonist of research and science. It has to change the time of Spanish irrelevance in research and science. We have to look for leadership. If it was clear before, it is now evident and I think we have the best, which is human capital, materialized and personalized in our researchers and researchers. With regard to health measures, I would like to inform you that the seroprevalence study is under way, to which the Minister of Health, under the leadership of the Department of Health and the Carlos III Institute of Health together with the Autonomous Communities, has referred in some public appearances. This study, which will be fundamental to understand exactly what is the degree of evolution of COVID-19 in our country, will estimate the percentage of Spanish population that has developed antibodies to COVID-19. More than 36,000 Spanish households have been selected and a total of 90,000 people will participate. In the social sphere, among many other issues, I would remind you that EUR 25 million has been allocated to the Autonomous Communities for the dinner grants, which makes it possible for some 148 000 children to receive adequate food. In turn, EUR 300 million has been allocated to the autonomous communities to increase the concerted social services plan - home care and tele-care - which serves more than 12 million people. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can imagine, without a roof any protection would be impossible. Housing policy is a fundamental right that must be guaranteed with or without a pandemic and with ICO endorsement lines, designed to protect people in vulnerable situations or who have become vulnerable as a result of the economic and labour impact of this crisis, it is estimated that almost half a million tenants, exactly 450 000, will be able to cope with their rent. The ban on cutting supplies for vulnerable groups will benefit 1 300,000 people - 1 300,000 people -. The suspension of the updating of gas prices is already benefiting 5.5 million consumers. More than a million companies and self-employed people will be able to suspend their electricity and gas bills up to six months after the state of alarm has been lifted. I therefore reiterate at this point what I warned at the beginning of my speech. In the management of the pandemic there are no absolute successes, but there can be absolute errors on the part of all those present here, and raising the state of alarm now would be an absolute, total and unforgivable error, because these aids are carried out under the umbrella of the state of alarm and the millions of compatriots who welcome them need them to have a roof, to have electricity, to have gas, to keep a business alive and to receive the collective support of public institutions. In the field of education, ladies and gentlemen, for example, almost 14,000 university students will benefit from the moratorium on payment of fees from March to December 2020 for university loans. And on the labour side of this sector, ladies and gentlemen, 40 000 assistant professors doctors, associate professors, visiting professors will benefit from the extension of university contracts. I would like to re-name, ladies and gentlemen, for a Government committed to gender equality, the 61,000 women who benefit from all preventive and assistance projects or programmes to protect and assist victims of gender-based violence, sexual exploitation, trafficking or sexual assault during the COVID-19 crisis. The situation - logically we can share most of the groups we are here - has been extreme for them, and we will not forget them, we cannot look elsewhere, they are a fundamental pillar in this struggle, we need them free, protected and secure. In the area of combating gender-based violence, a total of 205 000 preventive actions have been carried out by the State Security Forces and Bodies and a total of 5394 arrests have been carried out for these acts from the beginning of the state of alarm until 30 April. In addition, to date, 570,000 workers have benefited from the consideration of temporary incapacity as a result of accidents at work, and 570,000 workers. In addition, the unemployment benefit has been extended to workers who have been dismissed during the probationary period and to permanent discontinuous workers, and almost 50 000 businesses and self-employed persons have requested that their social security debts be deferred until 30 June this year. From the six-month moratorium on social security contributions, 1 125 000 self-employed persons have applied for benefits. An even greater amount, 1 233 000 self-employed, has applied for the extra benefit for cessation of activity, with 93 % of these benefits granted until 1 May and more than 80 % having already been paid. In other words, the management effort being made by the Government and the economic departments is extraordinarily intense during these weeks. More than 4 000 000 workers benefit from unemployment protection measures due to suspensions or reductions in working hours. And, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has poured all the resources of the State in support of the workers, the self-employed, the small entrepreneurs, the women, the children, the most vulnerable families. We have done so because that is the objective of the State, at least as we understand it: to support in the first place those who need it most, those who have become vulnerable as a result of the stoppage of economic activity and confinement. Surely, ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough, probably the interventions that you will then make will underline that it is not enough, and it can be true; surely, ladies and gentlemen, there have also been delays and some failures, but this is an action that has no precedent in the history of our democracy. Yesterday, for example, we adopted a package of measures for a sector hit hard by the economic crisis of COVID-19, such as the culture sector. We want there to be a network for no one to fall, we want a social network for no one to fall, and especially the most vulnerable groups, as I said before. Not leaving anyone behind, ladies and gentlemen, has been our guide and will continue to be in this whole crisis. We are moving forward together and this past week I believe that we can share, ladies and gentlemen, which has been decisive, although we must be cautious, as the Minister of Health repeatedly points out, and study with precision the evolution of the crisis in each of the territories. Our situation has obviously changed radically with regard to the terrible weeks we have been through. Spain has finally entered, as I said at the beginning of my speech, a phase of transition towards this new normality, a phase of descalation. When seven and a half weeks ago - remember, ladies and gentlemen - the state of alarm was decreed, the virus increased its spread every day by 35%, yesterday it did it by 0.40%, eighty-eight times less, and today it does it by 0.31%. The other indicators, ladies and gentlemen, show - I stress this with all caution and with all caution - that the disease is being controlled. As the contagions go down, nearly six out of ten infected people have already fully recovered. And I remember that we didn't get here because it brought us the current, we got here with effort, with sacrifice and also with a constitutional and fully legal tool such as the state of alarm, which, I insist, has worked. Thanks to this victory, which is undoubtedly partial, not complete today, we have had this opportunity to initiate, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the phase of descalation. And to do so we need the same legal tool, the same constitutional tool, because it is the only one that allows us to blind the virus's contagion pathways when it still retains much of its lethal potential. We limit, it is true, the right to freedom of movement and we limit, it is true, the right to freedom of assembly, but we do so in order to guarantee two other fundamental rights, such as that of public health and also that of saving lives. It is true that restrictions will be less and less severe - let us hope that they will be less and less severe - but there will still be restrictions, and those restrictions, ladies and gentlemen, need a state of alarm. As you know, for each phase of descalation, different markers will be established, measures, which we will also evaluate territory to territory and which have previously been agreed with the autonomous governments. Spain has just begun this expected process of return to normality and we will do so with caution, always ensuring that public health is preserved. The descalade comprises, as you know, four phases. Last Monday we started phase 0, the stage of preparation for that transition, whose conditions you already know. The most prominent order that came into force on May 2nd is the one that allows to take walks and exercise outdoors to the whole population, by slots and according to the specific groups, to protect especially those most vulnerable to the COVID-19. We need, logically, to avoid agglomerations and, therefore, this order regulates the walks by slots in the municipalities of more than 5000 inhabitants, establishing, first of all, two bands for those over the age of thirteen and under the age of seventy, which will be able to leave between six and ten in the morning and between eight and eleven in the evening; another two bands for those over the age of seventy, which will be able to leave between ten and twelve in the morning and between seven and eight in the afternoon. In this way, the central hours of the day, that is, between twelve in the morning and seven in the afternoon, are reserved for the walks of children under fourteen years of age. Moreover, since this Monday, as you know, the use of masks is mandatory in public transport, in buses, in railways and in air and maritime transport. We believe that this measure is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because especially in urban transport there are situations in which the safety distance established by the health authorities cannot be kept. This measure has also been requested by most autonomous communities, by transport consortia of the main autonomous communities and also by municipalities. Of course, and so that it can be fulfilled, on Monday a total of six million masks were distributed throughout Spain in the main public transport nodes and, in addition, we will deliver another seven million masks to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, for distribution for the same purpose, and one and a half million additional masks to NGOs, such as Caritas, Red Cross or Cermi, the Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities. In order to make progress also in the relief our economy needs, at this stage of preparation or phase 0 we have arranged for the opening, as you know, very limited - very limited - of some public establishments and the resumption of some activities that are known and that affect restaurants, cafes, shops, service facilities. There are also some restrictions on professional sport. All the confined workers have made a great sacrifice, ladies and gentlemen, but it is clear and easy to understand that the additional sacrifice of a sportsman, who has seen his physical form and abilities jeopardized, was an issue that we had to resolve as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, as I announced in one of my last appearances, the descalada, as we have seen and have said, must be asymmetric, and the example of this, for now, is that, since this Monday, four of our islands have moved directly to phase 1, that is, to the initial phase of transition of that descalada, the Formentera Balearic Island and the Canary Islands El Hierro, La Graciosa and La Gomera. The restrictions at this stage are a little more relaxed, of course. Social contact is allowed, for example, in small groups of not more than ten people, maintaining, that is, a fixed distance; that people can go in the same vehicle; that the educational centres reopen to be disinfected, and go to shops that have resumed their activity without needing a prior appointment. The Government wishes to appeal once again to citizens to shoulder their responsibility. If a person has symptoms of illness or has been in contact with someone sick or sick with COVID-19, he should go to the doctor and logically avoid any activity - even if allowed - that puts the health of others at risk. Consequently, the descalation - as I said before - will be asymmetric, as we are already seeing in the different territories, and in addition, will be co-governed. We will lead it together, the Government of Spain and the governments of the various autonomous communities, in co-governance. Although the ultimate validations will logically depend on the Ministry of Health and on the evolution of the virus, obviously the established process is adaptable and participatory; that is, the autonomous governments, the autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen, as the nearest administrations will have a leading role in the descalation. To this end, we have established a co-governance procedure that will help us to order work, flow of information and also decision-making. It will develop - if I may at least explain - as follows. First, the autonomous communities will have to submit their proposals to the Ministry of Health, indicating which provinces they consider to have to change phase or which islands or autonomous cities, or, if so, which lower-level territories, together with what measures will be applied in each of those provinces that change phase. In essence, the proposal will have to include, first of all, a description of the measures to be taken, which must be based on the measures provided for in the de-escalation plan and, where appropriate, add those which they consider appropriate, always with due justification. In addition, they will have to carry out an analysis of the strategic capacities available in the health system, the evolution of the epidemiological in the territory and the mechanisms to reduce the risk of transmission in the population. Finally, they will have to indicate any economic, social or mobility aspects that may be relevant to decision-making. The Ministry of Health will study each of these proposals together with the Autonomous Communities and, finally, a decision will be taken that will preferably be agreed. The autonomous communities, moreover, will have the interpretative capacity to develop the orders that are dictated, given the complexity that the situation has, the immense casuistic that each of the territories has, and the impossibility of reaching the maximum detail in the rules, as you can imagine. I want to make a final point about the phase change. In order to take account of the proposals of the Autonomous Communities, the following requirements will have to be met - in which I believe it is possible to reach broad agreement in this House, as we have, of course, also with the Autonomous Communities -: the territories must have the capacity to install within a maximum of five days between 1.5 and 2 intensive care beds per 10,000 inhabitants; they must also have the capacity to install within a maximum of five days between 37 and 40 acute care beds per 10,000 inhabitants; and, of course, they must have updated and communicated the information of the indicator panel, since otherwise it would be impossible to know the state of the situation in each territory and therefore to properly evaluate the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, all this that I have just detailed, I believe that, if anything sums up, if anything summarizes, it is the great collective achievement that we have achieved during these more than seven weeks of joint struggle against COVID, that we are moving forward and that we are moving forward together - and I want to underline this, we are moving forward together -. The boys and girls rejoiced on the streets this weekend and the adults have returned their lives to the neighborhoods, avenues and walks of our municipalities. Citizenship is regaining the pulse of its life and is finding itself more secure every day. This is what we have done among all of us. And I want to thank him publicly because it has been the majority of this Congress, the majority of this House, that has explicitly supported the prolongation of the state of alarm. I will not tire of repeating that we must increase vigilance, that we must be thorough, prudent and cautious. We are facing, ladies and gentlemen, something extraordinarily unheard of in our lives. Today we received - as I said earlier - with relief that only registered in Spain yesterday little more than 0.31% of new diagnoses, that is, 685 compatriots. But to understand the risk we still run - and this is what I would like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen - let us think that a single infected from the eastern end of Asia put all humanity in danger in less than a hundred days. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has begun to recover, that is obvious. We have returned to the streets - we are seeing it through the media - in our neighborhoods; they have reopened the small shops; our cities again seem like living places - with limitations, but obviously living - and above all our health system is no longer collapsed as we have unfortunately seen during these last few weeks: there are thousands of recovered - as we are seeing daily - there are increasingly fewer diagnosed. I think this is a symptom of what we have been asking for all this time: solidarity, responsibility and union. But the virus, ladies and gentlemen, is still there, on the lookout, its ability to spread is more than obvious. The number and level of contagion allows us to progressively alleviate the limitations that we have self-imposed, which we have endured, but does not allow us to eliminate all those uncertainties. We need to further limit the spread of the virus, and to that end, ladies and gentlemen, we need to limit for a few weeks more two fundamental rights which we have logically seen restricted as a result of the state of alarm: the first is the right to free movement and the second is the right, as I said before, to assembly. There are, of course, two rights to guarantee another two, which are that of public health and that of life. And to limit those two rights to mobility and to the meeting we need the only constitutional and legal instrument that allows us to act on them, which is the state of alarm; it is the constitutional tool designed, ladies and gentlemen, to fight pandemics and health emergencies. This is expressly stated in the Organic Law, which develops the state of alarm of a number of years ago, of 1981. We are tackling the health emergency - yes, it is obvious - and we already have the social and economic emergency, to which I referred earlier. We know that, but we have decided not to forget anyone, because, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the homeland, when we talk about flags and when we talk about Spain, we talk about precisely this, about the millions of citizens who today would have nothing to eat, not even electricity to turn on the washing machine, if the public sector did not protect them, the state. As I announced last week at the European Council, the pace of economic growth we had before the pandemic came has been suddenly interrupted. The healthy economic horizon that Spain had has vanished as a result of the virus; our national wealth is going to be reduced - and these are the forecasts that we sent to Brussels - by 9 % this year; employment will be terribly affected, as we are seeing the latest figures of unemployment, and according to the calculations, we will need two years to be able to recover the levels of creation of national wealth that we had before the outbreak of the virus. We are convinced, ladies and gentlemen, - and I have also said this on many occasions that I have been able to address you from this rostrum - that Europe is a key part - I would say fundamental - of the exit from this crisis not only for Spain but also for the whole of the Union and, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that I have fought and continue to fight from the first day so that it may be so. We need an ambitious pact in the European Union, which is commensurate with the circumstances and the social and economic gravity that economic activity has brought to all companies and workers. We do not want easy formulas that mean that we are in debt in a perverse and deceptive way, as has happened to us in the past. So once again we have chosen a more difficult path - it is true - which is to demand that European response that is consistent with the gravity of the situation, and you know that the results, even though insufficient, are in the right direction. Europe is committed to this reconstruction, to this recovery in solidarity, in a generous way by working together. Europe is the main pillar for the economic and social recovery of our country and our continent. Ladies and gentlemen, I only believe that there is one way - one way - there is only the way to Europe and there is only the way to union in Spain. We must do our best as political leaders, support ourselves in the country that we have full of talent and capacity for work and recovery. We need to support a social and economic reconstruction pact, work it together proactively, trusting that we have what we really need, that they are workers, workers, entrepreneurs, self-employed, entrepreneurs. Spain, in short, is waiting for our political response, is prepared to walk, to move forward, and therefore, at least for my part, I look forward to the start of the work of the parliamentary committee that you have agreed on in the legislative branch. Ladies and gentlemen, let us put aside the suspicions, I insist. Let us make a point and apart, a parenthesis of cooperation, of collaboration, of coordination, which I believe is necessary, and is also demanded by the whole of Spanish citizenship. Let us do as citizens ask: let us renounce maximalisms, let us work discreetly and with loyalty. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that all of you will present these proposals for the future, proposals for reconstruction and recovery, in the committee. The Government will take care of them because it is our duty and it is also our commitment to advance them. The virus attacked us all and we have to get out of this situation together. As a first step, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, as a basic condition to address that reconstruction and complete the total victory over the virus, we need that union. Look at some data that I believe demonstrate the seriousness of the situation we are facing. The virus has already taken a quarter of a million lives in the world - in the United States, more lives than in the Vietnam war -; it has paralysed the world economy, as we are seeing; it has locked up half of humanity in their homes; it has emptied the streets; it has suspended flights; it has crushed promising companies; it has broken down vital and business projects. Anyone understands that the fight against such a harmful enemy consists of two stages. In the first stage, we must stop it, we must keep it in line, and for that we have given up part of our freedoms - we have stayed at home, we have renounced encounters with our loved ones -; therefore, we have done the hardest. Now it is not the hardest, but the most difficult and the most complex: a second stage in which we will gradually recover the movements, the encounters; we will gradually resume the activity and our social life, while we protect and protect the rest of our fellow citizens and continue to keep the virus at bay. We still need, ladies and gentlemen, to limit our movements a few more weeks - it is clear -; we need to limit our meetings even more a few more weeks. That is what we have called descaled in everyday terms, and to do so we need the constitutional instrument that allows and enables us to do so, which is the state of alarm. In the management of this epidemic - as I said before, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to repeat it again - there are not always any successes, either in the East or in the West, in Europe or in America, in the Government or in the opposition. There are no absolute successes in the management of the pandemic, but there may be absolute errors. I would like to share that concern with you: there can be absolute mistakes. Ignoring the risk of the epidemic and raising the state of alarm in haste would be an absolute, total, unforgivable mistake that the Government is not going to make - therefore, I ask for the extension - and I urge its lords to avoid. Lifting up early, as I said, the state of alarm would be to unprotect the Spaniards from the virus and there is no noble political purpose to justify taking that step. The state of alarm, ladies and gentlemen, is no twisted resource of centralism, it is not; it is a tool to limit mobility for a few more weeks; it is the means to prevent the virus from moving unchecked between provinces; it is a shield against the spread of the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of alarm is not, as some opposition groups have said, an arson to limit freedoms, it is not. All freedoms, ladies and gentlemen, are intact; all the rights of the Constitution are intact and are fully protected by the laws, the courts, the Parliament and the press that act without a trample. There is not a single freedom violated, only limited freedom of movement and freedom of assembly to prevent precisely the contagion and logically save lives and guarantee the public health of all citizens. There can be no other interest, but that of saving lives and culminating the effort that we have made among all; there can be no other goal than to regain our labor and productive capacity as soon as possible. That is, ladies and gentlemen - believe me - the only ideology that exists through the request I make to this House again of the extension of the state of alarm: protecting public health and saving lives; extreme lives and Catalan lives, Andalusian lives and Galician lives, left-wing lives and right-wing lives, in short, the lives of compatriots. Now is not the time for reproach but the time to make a transcendental decision that will mark us forever. What is to be voted on is whether we gradually descend or break ranks - this is the question, ladies and gentlemen - whether unity prevails or whether it is imposed on anyone who can. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not only a political but also a moral option. Over and above the correctness or mismanagement, regardless of the assessment they receive, we will all be measured by the ethical implications of the decision we are going to make today, and I do not want to reduce the least gravity to this issue. Any partisan political purpose is legitimate, ladies and gentlemen, I do not question it, but within certain limits; one of them, the most sacred, is that of health and that of the life of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the goal is near, the goal is near. I urge you to persevere for a few more weeks. If we do this within a few weeks, we can celebrate together the first victory in the face of the epidemic, although we will logically remain vigilant to avoid any resurgence. But that day, ladies and gentlemen, even if it is near, it has not yet arrived, we are not there yet; however much we wish, we have not yet arrived at that moment. We need to maintain for a few more weeks some limitations on our mobility and some restrictions on economic activity in order to finally control the disease. We owe it, as I said at the beginning of my intervention - and with this I am ending - first and foremost to the dead, who have paid the highest price of all; we owe it also to the sick and the sick who have recovered and to those who are still hospitalized; we owe it to the thousands of health workers who have been fighting with self-denial and with an extraordinary dose of humanity for two months; we owe it to the police, the military, the workers in the countryside, the workers in the city, and we owe it to the older and the younger, who have given up so much and so much. So, calmly and without reproach, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to add your vote to the fight against the epidemic, I ask you not to deprive the government of the necessary legal and constitutional weapon to complete the victory against the virus. I ask you to vote in favour of the renewal of the state of alarm. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Rocío. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, you, who like dystopic slogans, remind Huxley when he said that the facts do not cease to exist even if they are ignored. You intend to draw a story aside from reality to reach that disturbing new normality that you intend to sell us, and you do it by lying about the causes of the severe impact of the coronavirus in Spain, you do it also by manipulating its economic and social consequences and you do it by misrepresenting the instruments of the democratic system for the management of this crisis. He will begin by analysing, first, his deception about the causes that have motivated Spain to be the country most affected by COVID-19 around the world. We have the highest number of deaths per inhabitant, with more than 25 000, according to their figures. You will say that Belgium surpassed us last week, but it is there that they compute the deceased with symptoms and without proof carried out, and here they do not even compare the annual differential of the registration of deaths. The explanations given by the Government are more typical of a healer than of a scientific committee in a developed country. First, they said that it was because of our custom to embrace us, as if they greeted each other with reverence in Portugal, that it had 900 victims; then, that it was because of the aging of the population, as if it were not the longest-lived country Japan, that it had less than 500 victims; then, because we were more east than other countries, as if we were less than Greece, that it had only less than 200 victims, and the last excuse is tourism, when the autonomy least affected are those that international tourists arrive at this time of the year. The malicious anticipation began by saying that this was going to be a flu with just a few infections, while hiding the World Health Organization and the European Union's alerts, calling us alarmists who we said were taking action and exposing hundreds of thousands of people to the infection at the demonstrations on 8 March. This led to the incompetence of failing to protect health professionals until it became the country of the world with the most infected, who are already 44 000, 20% of the total, and half a hundred dead, all because of the inability to buy material that sometimes arrived defective from suppliers accused of bribery or socialist intermediaries. Later, the test sanatorium, along with reports from OECD, Oxford and Johns Hopkins, came to recognize the ineptitude of mass testing and an epidemiological map. This makes the descalade a Russian roulette in which asymptomatic infected people can infect the rest of the population without knowing it, but despite all this, Mr Sánchez, you still do not recognize a single mistake and demands that we all support you without hesitation. His war rhetoric already seems more like a Gila joke, which would produce hilarity if it were not for the drama that accompanies his gruesome management failure. So that I don't say that these are bulls of the opposition and of the non-aligned media I'm going to tell you the chronicle of courts that awaits you by professional collectives. The CSIF civil servants'union has complained against its Government for the offence of reckless homicide; the Association of Consumers and Users, for the offence of reckless injury; the Professional Association of the Civil Guard, for the offence of violation of the Prevention Act; the General Council of Nursing of Spain, for the offence against the safety of workers; the General Council of Official Medical Colleges will bring charges against the purchase of fraudulent material; and the State Confederation of Medical Unions, for the distribution of defective masks. Are these also disloyal and unworthy? Mr. Sanchez, this week we've seen that your spokespersons are opening Pandora's box of responsibilities for the ravages of the pandemic. I think it's reckless of you, but if you want, we'll accept the orderly. According to Mr Ábalos, if we do not support the state of alarm we will have to respond to the citizens of the round of cases, and according to Mr Echenique we would be threatening to provoke a rebound, the collapse of the health system and thousands of deaths. So, according to this perverse logic, are you responsible for the death of 25 000 Spaniards? We wouldn't fall into such low morals, we're not like you. [[Rumors]] Therefore, they do not parapet their spokesmen in that disguise of false moderate who no longer deceives anyone, nor their partners. If you want to open the chapter of political responsibilities, go ahead, because you are the one who has failed in everything and everyone. I see you already have the monkey of your democratic syrup and you don't even expect to be in the opposition to use the victims against others again. If we were in the government, they'd be scrambling at the door of our homes, calling us murderers in front of our children. That's his old normality. Mr Sánchez, all the political parties, business and trade union organizations and autonomous and municipal governments, in their Aló Presidente, we learn about the sudoku that they have called a descalation plan. He didn't bother to inform or consult anyone, and so he goes. Even the socialist president of Aragon rejected him saying that it was more important to save lives than to save his political career. Defining without a seroprevalence survey is like walking down a mountain with blindfolded eyes, and walking out into the street without adequate protective material is like walking through a minefield. Confinement has existed since the Middle Ages to contain epidemics, but we will have made some progress since then. We asked you at first to avoid the collapse of hospital emergencies, after your delay in taking other measures. But after two months some plan B will have to not be to put all the weight on the shoulders of the Spaniards, which we have already put up with too much. We're sick of televised coaching sessions, we want certainty and no more snorkels, improvisations and bandages. Do you want us to develop a kind of Stockholm syndrome that we forgive you for your mistakes in exchange for probation to take a vermouth during the slots in which I stand? Do you miss the tourism and hospitality sector until December, as your Minister of Labour? They learned, as always, at the last hour of Sunday of opening conditions that lead them to ruin. Are you going to support the automotive sector, or are you going to continue demonizing it, as your Energy Minister? Please note that they pay taxes equivalent to 40% of all Spanish health expenditure. What's going to happen to the kids next school year? Won't you be able to go half to school, as your Education Minister said yesterday? We've had enough with supermarkets and pharmacies, Mr. Sánchez. What they should do is stop playing trial and error, using the Spaniards as Pávlov's dogs, and agree on measures with the affected sectors, with the social actors, with the political parties and with the autonomous communities, and if possible in Parliament. The PP has only stood up for the autonomous state. We are not federalists, nor confederals, nor Jacobins, nor nationalists, nor independenceists; we claim the model of the Constitution, especially at this time when municipal and autonomous governments are the best counterweight to a bad national government and because you have become a bottleneck. Just as the confinement has been from the top down, the descalation must be from the bottom up: from civil society, businesses and workers to the municipalities, autonomy and then to their government, which, by the way, is increasingly overflowing. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the causes for which coronavirus has affected Spain so much, secondly, I would like to analyse the falsehoods that the Government is launching about the consequences of its negligent management. They intend to launch their social engineering gear and take advantage of the pandemic to advance their programme against individual freedom, private property and the rule of law. From announcing the social shield they have gone from human shields to the unemployed and the self-employed, threatening to withdraw their aid if we do not approve today the extension of the state of alarm. Does this seem ethically decent to you, Mr. Sanchez? We support the support by ERTE in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, but, against all logic, they were then linked to the state of alarm in Royal Decree-Law 9/2020, which, of course, we could not support. Instead of pulsing with the arms of millions of unemployed families and boasting yesterday of having to grant five million benefits - what a great brother -, you should worry about the economic hecatombe that is already occurring in Spain. Since the beginning of the crisis there are already one million more unemployed, another million self-employed people who have ceased their activity - although half of them have been paid the quota - and there are four million workers who have been receiving ERTE since the end of March without paying and still a third of them will not pay them until next month. You will tell me how this extra-social government intends that they can make the purchase and pay their receipts. Every day six thousand companies have closed down in Spain, but the government has not yet granted 20% of the €200 billion in liquidity pledged to SMEs and self-employed people. Is that not leaving anyone behind? His vice president said that the impact of the virus on the economy would be insignificant and transitory when we presented our economic shock plan two months ago, but today there are almost nine million Spaniards who want to work and cannot, and there are twenty-one million people who depend on the state on their income, compared to the fourteen million workers who are fully active. This is simply unsustainable. In order to maintain pensions, public health, social services must reactivate the economy urgently, and with sufficient protective measures for workers, as other countries have done - their mistakes on masks and tests are also listed on the stock exchange -; otherwise, the economic crisis will lead to a social catastrophe, because according to the government's own data sent to Brussels, our national wealth will sink a historic 9%, unemployment will fall to 19%, the deficit to 10% and the debt to 115 %. However, they hide the deficit forecast by 2021 to cover the adjustments they would have to make in the welfare state. Can you explain how you intend to square the accounts, or do we have to find out for the Italian Prime Minister again? For him we knew they were going to ask for the ransom, something that the vice president no longer denied on Friday. Can you tell the Parliament of the nation you serve how much that will cost pensioners, unemployed and civil servants? For Italy too, what could be the required adjustment: half of the declared deficit, that is to say, about EUR 60 billion. Where are you going to get so much money from with a budget that allocates 8 out of 10 euros to pensions, unemployment benefits, civil servants' salaries and debt interest? You could start by reducing your hypertrophied government. Or is it that new normality that makes it repeat its performance in 2010 by voting for the largest rescue of the welfare state in the democratic history of Spain, according to its predecessor, that is, the biggest cut that this House has suffered in all the social services of our nation? If you intend to make the Spaniards pass through these caudina gallows, at least tell the truth now or you will pass as Rodriguez Zapatero and his green shoots. As much propaganda as I do, the Spaniards remember what happened in the previous crisis and who wreaked havoc on employment and social services. By the way, last week his Ministry of Finance published the Cofog report which said that health spending rose almost 9 billion euros in four years from the last government of the People's Party. Are your own reports also bubbles? Mr Sánchez, besides the causes of the gravity of the pandemic in Spain and its consequences, he is also not telling the truth about the legal means to manage it. You say you have no plan B to the state of alarm, which is already in entry is a tremendous irresponsibility; what I doubt is that you ever had a plan A. It says: Either you are supported or this is chaos, although you already know how Ramón's mythical vineyard ended in Brother Lobo: 'What is chaos? And you ask me? The chaos is you.' Spain cannot continue to live in the constitutional exception unlimitedly. In addition to having the hardest and longest confinement with the worst result in number of dead and unemployed, you demand to maintain absolute political powers. The opposite is true in the rest of the developed world. The road map - which you voted for - of the President of the European Commission and of the President of the European Council recommends that states of emergency which grant exceptional powers should be replaced by more specific interventions to ensure democratic accountability and transparency, as well as respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. March 26th. In France, they have not applied the exceptionality of article 16 of its Constitution but an organic law adopted by the National Assembly. By the way, lying down by the Senate yesterday. In Germany, they have limited themselves to applying the Federal Infections Act, which has allowed the Länder to make confinements only if they needed it. In Italy they have adopted a decree without resorting to the constitutional exception. Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Denmark, Greece, Norway, the Netherlands and Sweden have not implemented it. And those who have done so, such as Romania, Czech Republic, Portugal, Ireland or Finland already raise it. All of Europe has an aversion to exceptional measures. Only Hungary, Poland and you maintain the measures, without realising their completion. You seem more and more installed in that absolutism of: After me, the flood. By the way, where did your Noah arks end? He prefers to rule in unilaterality or, at best, in the prebends at the last minute rather than in collaboration with administrations and parties. Mr. Sánchez, our Constitution and its corresponding organic law state that the state of alarm cannot suspend any fundamental right, but you have repeatedly exceeded this limitation, which has placed us in an obscure state of emergency. That is what I have pointed out in all the debates on the extensions, and for that reason we have never tabled motions for resolutions, so as not to endorse this legal outburst; neither do we today. That state of alarm made sense at the beginning of the pandemic, to prevent the collapse of hospital emergencies, when 900 people died in one day and that is why we have supported it until the health situation has stabilized. But it cannot be extended indefinitely, even more so when the Constitution restricts the application of the state of emergency to sixty days, which must similarly limit the duration of the state, less severe, of alarm. Review the debates between Gabriel Cisneros and the recently deceased Fernando Morán or the writings of Peces-Barba during the constitutive presentation to read about the constitutional violation of which he predicted in the differentiation of these states: 'The situation of exception does not allow the establishment of a constitutional dictatorship. [[...]] ' This is not what I say, as Manuel Aragón says, who was a judge of the Constitutional Court on the proposal of his party. You came to power two years ago with a motion of censure and since then you have been ruling by decree, without having been able to even approve budgets. But it now seeks to govern by ministerial orders even to limit fundamental freedoms, which is unacceptable and is a fraud of law. It has taken advantage of the state of alarm to limit parliamentary control and that of the media, and to pursue criticism on social networks through the State Security Forces and Bodies. It has used it to abuse emergency public procurement, which is totally opaque, without competition and with direct award, which has led to serious irregularities that are already in the courts. And he has used it to content his partners, modifying the CNI commission, the rules of pardons, the processing of the decriminalization of the insults to the Crown and an increase in the number of high offices yesterday, in the midst of crisis. In addition, it has used this exceptionality to modify the time limits for judicial investigation and the role of the Office of the Prosecutor, to question the right to own housing or to make an educational counter-reform through the back door. And now, it aims to scare the Spaniards and take hostages to the unemployed, self-employed and students by conditioning their aid to be supported by the fourth extension, but that is unacceptable as well as false. Because on 12 March, before declaring the state of alarm, you decreed the closure of schools and universities, the confinement of localities such as Igualada and Haro and enclaves of Tenerife was allowed and air mobility with Italy was prohibited. All cultural and sporting activities and meetings of more than a thousand people were suspended. You've already used that plan B, but it's just that you're more comfortable with the cesareanism of plan A. Mr Sánchez, the current legal order allows you to maintain the single health command and the limitation of mobility without prolonging an abusive exceptionality, as you claim. First, with the Law on Special Measures in the Field of Public Health, which allows, since it is organic, the limitation of the rights entailed by confinement and which authorizes in its article 3 the appropriate measures for the control of diseases of a communicable nature. On the other hand, the General Health Act, also of 1986, allows for how many measures are considered to be health justified in the face of an imminent and extraordinary risk to health. Another law enacted by another socialist government, the law on cohesion and quality of the National Health System of 2011, allows it to take measures that are strictly necessary in all this area.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u6	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u7	Yes, Madam President. The General Law on Public Health of the same year establishes in its article 14 the automatic competence of the Ministry of Health in the management of alerts that may transcend the territory of an autonomous community and allows - textually - the suspension of the exercise of activities and actions if there are health risks. The Regulations for the Control of Infectious Diseases, as amended by his party in 1982, are also in force, which states that in this case, locals, schools or traffic and trade may be closed. Not to mention the judgment of the Madrid High Court of Justice on the question of the Excalibur dog, which states that the competent public administrations have wide discretionary powers aimed at the prevention and protection of public health. Part of this legislation has already been successfully launched in the SARS and Ebola crisis. It cannot therefore deny that the single command cannot be maintained under ordinary law. In addition to all these health-related laws, there are others in the area of safety, such as the National Civil Protection System Act of 2015, which allows Article 7 to adopt restrictive measures of law and Article 30 provides for the single command for crisis management in situations of national emergency. The National Security Act of the same year allows in its article 23 the reinforced coordination of the resources of all the administrations, through the declaration of situation of interest for national security; not counting the Law on Citizen Security that, in order not to like this Law bites - in their words - although they have used it with almost a million sanctions to limit the freedom of movement in just two months. At the international level, the international health regulations of the World Health Organization in articles 15 and 18 and the European Convention on Human Rights in article 5 provide that restrictions and limitations on freedom of movement are not considered a violation of the right to freedom of movement because of pandemics; this facilitates the interpretation of the application of all this basic national legislation. That is to say, Mr Sánchez, that there are several legal instruments that are much more precise than the generic powers of the state of alarm to manage the single command and the limitation of movements without having to resort to emergency legislation. The coronavirus vaccine, unfortunately, will take months or even years, so we have to establish the ordinary legal regulation to deal with any rebound, even if we have to support some legislative amendment by emergency procedure, as I offered you in our conversation yesterday, we can do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u8	Mr. Married, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u9	I'm done, Madam President. What is not possible is to maintain the arbitrariness of the Government with exceptional powers that no other opposition has granted so widely and for so long in the other countries of our environment. Mr. Sánchez, to end, also with a dystopia, remember Orwell when he said that in times of universal deception telling the truth becomes a revolutionary act. The People's Party will continue to do so always, whoever falls, in the face of any threat or oppression. Our loyalty is not with his Government but with the Spanish. We are a state party that fulfills its word with coherence and responsibility. For all these reasons I have explained to you, I told you yesterday that we could not support this extension to the state of alarm and today we will not support it. And I also told him, and I explained it in public, that I could avoid our vote against if I disassociate the ERTE and the help to the autonomous and SMEs from the state of alarm, if it improves co-governance with the autonomies and if it adapts the actions against the pandemic to the ordinary legislation in order to leave, within two weeks, the constitutional exceptionality. His new variable geometry has led him to undertake to do these three actions, even if by force, and to accept the declaration of national mourning. He said today that he is willing to do so and that is why we will remain committed not to voting against him. Not only my parliamentary group but all the Spaniards hope that for once it will comply and this is the last decree of extension of state of alarm that will bring to this House. If you are not able to find in fifteen days a plan B adjusted to the legality and respect for the freedom of our compatriots, do not ask again for loyalty and unity to the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rincón. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I would like to begin, as in previous speeches, by expressing my condolences to the families of the deceased, of whom we do not yet know the number: 25 000, 30 000, 40 000, 50 000; many more, in any case, than would have occurred with reasonable management; too many; victims, on the one hand, of the pandemic and, on the other, of the management of a health crisis which has been the worst in the world. We will never forget the tens of thousands of Spaniards who have died in the dark because the Government and its subsidized media have been much more concerned about hiding them than they were about protecting them and alerting them. The government hiding information from the Spanish and the media laughing at what looked like a common flu. His Government is asking us for support as long as the President insults us, and as long as the Vice-President threatens us. Mr Sánchez, in his previous appearance, the one that you are obliged to do every fifteen days for the state of alarm, not because you want it as you sometimes want us to believe, did not answer my questions and poured falsehoods on my party; and it forces me to deviate for a minute on the issue that we are dealing with today. Look, you can label us or insult us as you wish, Mr. Sánchez, but we care about the Spanish regardless of their color, age, sex and sexual orientation. But since you brought that up, which had nothing to do with what we were dealing with and what we were dealing with, I beg you to abandon that historical hatred of the left towards homosexuals. Stay away, please, from idols like the Che Guevara, who imprisoned them, and encourage their government partners, who now do not seem to want to listen, to move away from ideologies that catalog people according to their sexual status. People must be able to love anyone, Mr. Sánchez, and it must be very hard for homosexuals that you continue to pay tribute to their persecutors and murderers. In VOX, ladies and gentlemen, we do not despise anyone for their sexual tendency; in VOX, of course, they will not have to endure an ex-ministry who sat on their side and now the prosecutor insults them seriously, as he did with other comrades on the blue bench. It will not be easy for him to convince his associate Churches of a gesture of humanity, because the Lord Churches is a negationist of all the crimes of communism; moreover, he went up to this rostrum a few days ago to make apologia of that criminal ideology. I even believe that we should reflect on whether that negationist position put forward by the Vice-President in the rostrum of the various genocides of communism does not constitute a crime, as recognized by the Criminal Code in its article 510, which provides for prison sentences for those who publicly deny, trivialize or exalt the crimes of genocide. Mr. Iglesias came to this rostrum, by the way, to threaten Spain's third party by appealing to the Civil War. Let Mr. Iglesias know that he will not frighten us either his forms of Bolivarian thug or his threats of Chequist, or even his control of the CNI; moreover, he reassures us every time he goes up to this rostrum because millions of Spaniards know him better and see that in him there is only hatred, violence and pathological obsessions with the 1930s of the last century. Back to the 21st century, ladies and gentlemen. I will tell you with an image that may help you understand: under your ominous government, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, you have died ten times as many Spaniards as those who murdered your idols in Paracuellos. Perhaps with those examples you are able to imagine the magnitude of the tragedy you have caused. Mr. Iglesias, with that Soviet pride that characterizes him, told us on March 19 that he was responsible for the residences of the elderly during this crisis and that is why we accused him directly of the horror of management, because he himself pointed out, because he himself anointed himself, because he wanted to have that responsibility. So do not hide Mr. Iglesias - who has now gone away - talking about the public and the private, because he had authority over all the residences and in all have lacked the protection measures for the elderly and for the working staff, have lacked the tests of detection of the disease and has lacked the support needed by the elderly; there they have died, and not even appear in the statistics, thousands of elderly abandoned by this government and personally by Mr. Iglesias. We will therefore demand that you face your responsibility to the families of the victims, to the Spaniards and to the judges, and you will soon find yourself talking about your beloved Lenin or the wars of the grandfather, the sad wars of our grandfathers. Mr Sánchez, I have only heard an important truth in your entire political life, which I also share: that the Spaniards could not sleep peacefully with Mr Iglesias in the government. Some have not even been able to survive their management because it is not easy to survive the management of the communists, either economically or physically. And you are most responsible because while allowing Mr. Iglesias to attack the parliamentary monarchy, while shielding him at the National Intelligence Centre, the elderly died abandoned and hidden in our residences. Mr. Iglesias doesn't even like Spain, why should the Spaniards worry? I imagine that every time you come up to this rostrum you will have to make an unusual effort to pronounce the name of our nation which, until recently, was perhaps renegade as a way of making friends with terrorists and other domestic or foreign murderers, because we have seen you in the ETA garrison praising the terrorist band ETA. Yes, Mr. Iglesias said it: I can't say Spain, I can't say Spain; with a mixture of disgust and hatred, because they disgust our anthem that he calls cutre, facsimile pachanga, our red flag and our king. I'm not making it up. Mr. Iglesias contorts when he talks about the homeland, patriots and patriotism, as he did the other day in this rostrum to answer us about residences. And I don't say it, has Mr. Churches acknowledged it literally, or is it that you no longer remember Mr. Churches? So now don't come here and teach us lessons about patriotism or ask us to applaud your contortionism. Mr Sánchez, I don't think you get to that, I don't think it's hard for you to pronounce the name of Spain - I don't think you care much either, and I'm sorry - but I think you'd pronounce anything, Mr Sánchez, so long as you stay in power, in the palace, by private plane and with a lot of cops around, and I'm sorry to tell you. Mr Sánchez, you had a public deficit last year of 2.8% of gross domestic product and you have twenty-two ministers; Mrs Merkel had a public deficit of 1.4% and you have fourteen ministers. You, double deficit, double ministers, because you do everything big. You are the champion - and also unfortunately for the Spaniards - in this crisis in the number of deaths per inhabitant per coronavirus and in the number of infected toilets per inhabitant; also in television hours per hour of programming. His statistics are amazing, so we are not surprised by the data given him by the CIS of Tezanos, which wish him such good results, and that television treats you as a sultan. But Spain, Mr Sánchez, is not a sultanate, nor, Mr Iglesias, is a Bolivarian republic; it is a parliamentary monarchy. And you two are undermining it and destroying it. VOX warned of the totalitarian drift of this Government, which has turned the state of alarm into a state of emergency. And unfortunately, we're back to being right. Because fifty-three days have passed since the decree of the state of alarm and the only thing that has been cut and fought from the government has been the freedoms and rights of the Spaniards. The speed, joy and effectiveness with which you restrict the rights and freedoms of all contrasts precisely with your inability to protect health and the national economy. I think if you don't leave, Spain will end the spring with more fines and stops than I'm testing. Speaking of freedom cuts, Mr Marlaska, I ask you: why did you order Saturday to stop the vehicles running with Spanish flags? I ask you to use your authority to intervene in this rostrum and to answer me and also to tell me here, at the seat of national sovereignty, whether you have decided to repeal the Constitution. Because on Saturday, with your orders, you de facto revoked and suspended the constitutional rights of the Spaniards by prohibiting a demonstration in cars that did not pose any kind of danger to public health or the life of anyone. I need to know because the Spaniards want to demonstrate on the streets, with all the relevant security measures, against their government. Many Spaniards are already doing so on the network, despite threats of monitoring and public-private censorship, assisted by Atresmedia journalists and other underprivileged media. But we're also going to do it on the streets, Mr. Marlaska. We will do so by car, individually or in families living together, with all the security measures by the center of the main cities carrying flags of Spain and asking for the resignation of his Government. Are you going to ban it? Are you going to stop it? Are you going to give us the reason? Have the courage to say so in this rostrum because tomorrow we will notify all the delegations of the Government of those calls for demonstration, absolutely safe and absolutely legal if you are not lying in this rostrum. Say that you have banned the rights of assembly and demonstration and say that your only fear is of the people and that you want to protect yourself from the Spanish. Because you don't like freedom, no matter how much you invoke it, or the truth. Precisely, using the first, we will tell you the second in this rostrum and in the streets, and we will reveal that you, Mr Sánchez, pretend to have the Spaniards as hostages and that you are trying to blackmail this House - as you have done from this rostrum - to renew a power you have abused. Citizens, I have to say that I am sorry, I am also sorry for the abstention of the People's Party. Maintaining this state of illegal alarm - and which has been so harshly criticized by Mr Casado, on the other hand - with this president and with this vice president, neither saves lives nor saves jobs; what would save lives and save jobs is a change of government. You have decided to support them and you have decided to abstain and, indeed, that I can only say that I am sorry. I think that more and more Spaniards are checking that you cling to the state of alarm as you need it for other things, especially your vice president. And also in the logic that you propose, as it all depends on the state of alarm, the social aid that must be given to the Spaniards at this time depends on the state of alarm, how long do you want to have us in the state of alarm? Until December? The whole legislature? Because we understand that when the state of alarm is no longer approved, there will no longer be any social aid to give to the Spaniards. Or are you also lying to us about this in the gallery? Our vote is not going to put the fate of the Spaniards in their hands, even if we had - let me tell you what I am going to say - to disappear as a party we will never help to strengthen in power those who are disregarding life, freedom, prosperity and the nation in Spain and those who have taken us to the greatest disaster of this century but speak of the data of the United States referring to Vietnam. We have had to suffer from your management, but we are in time to prevent the disaster that you have caused from getting worse. For this we continue to offer this House the possibility of a national emergency government that logically we do not want to lead - as you will say immediately after my intervention - that will be able to lead the next few months until an election. And since this government is not going to assume its responsibility, it seems to me that it will depend on each and every one of you, Members of Parliament. I do not rule out the need for a motion of censure, even if only for the Spanish to know, with names and surnames, who are the Members who want the maintenance and continuity of this ruinous government that is abusing power. The responsibility lies with the opposition's first party, but if it is delegated, it may have to be exercised by other groups because this is a ruinous government that tens of thousands of deaths are already beginning to add up to millions of economic victims. The data on yesterday's unemployment, of which you boasted, are particularly terrible. I repeat for the umpteenth time that you must, before leaving, pay the salaries and salaries of the self-employed and the workers of the months of March, April and May, of all those who have not been allowed to work. Of course, we will also have to deal with those Spaniards whose management has already been expelled from the labour market and perhaps a minimum income is needed in these cases, but not to have the Spanish captives, as their vice president wants, but to ensure that they have the sustenance while the national economy recovers. For that to begin to happen, one only has to exclude from the economic positions his demented obsessions that so much wealth have squandered. And I'm going to set you one example, Mr. Sanchez. He was recently talking about Vietnam, therefore indirectly about Mr Trump. You said we had to fight Trump. Are you aware of the consequences of Spain saying that the President of an allied country, such as the United States, must be combated of the consequences with regard to tariffs on Spanish products? Do you realize what has happened to Navantia, which has lost a million-dollar contract of 58 billion euros to build ten frigates? Its belligerence against Trump and that of its subsidized media - while pointing out what is happening in the United States and hiding what is happening in Spain - clashes with the attitude they have on the other hand with the Chinese regime, a servile attitude with a country that, by the way, buys defective material and that has not even asked for forgiveness for the Wuhan virus. In fact, we don't want them to ask for forgiveness, it would be enough for us to tell the truth about the origin of the virus and start paying for the disaster they have caused with their concealment of information. Over the past 50 years, ladies and gentlemen, mankind has twice faced a global danger: one originating in Chernobyl and another originating in Wuhan. It is no coincidence that this has happened under the communist regimes so much idolized by the Vice-President of the Government. But let us return for a moment to the Government of Spain, which has become a laughing stock of the international press, which says that it no longer even publishes its data because no one believes it. And that lack of international credibility, Mr Sánchez, has fatal consequences for the financing of our debt. Who would lend money to a company when some of its partners work to destroy it, as with their investment accomplices? I know it's hard for you to put up with all this, but don't worry I'll be done soon. Of course, you are not the only problem, you are not the only culprit, also the Europe of bureaucrats has a great responsibility and is proving to be against the interests of Spain and against our sovereignty. We will not beg for money from Europe, we will demand it, and we will demand it because the European Central Bank also belongs to the Spaniards and because the European Union has also been built with the resignations of generations of Spaniards in the countryside and in industry. That's why I conclude, President, we don't want a ransom. Mr Sánchez, the Spaniards will know how to rescue ourselves from you and we will know how to cut unnecessary political spending and drive our industry and our economy in general because Spain, when it has not had to endure harmful rulers, has been able to create wealth like no country in the world. We've proved it in the past and we'll prove it again. That is why I ask you again, Mr Sánchez, to pay the payroll and to leave, that Spain has important tasks to undertake and you must prepare your defence in the courts. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u12	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u13	Thank you, Madam President. As you know, since the suspension of ordinary parliamentary activity our group decided that only those who lived in Madrid, in line with medical indications, would come. For this reason, today is the first time I have taken the floor from here, and I wanted to start with a reflection and a thank you, not without first sending a reminder to the relatives of the deceased. The reflection is by Albert Camus. In his book La Peste he asked a question that many of us have asked these days: How to defeat the virus? His answer was simple, but compelling: with decency, the decency that is exercised not from the rescue who can, but from the bonds of fraternity, cooperation, empathy, which puts what unites us above what separates us, because the worst epidemics are not biological; the worst epidemics - Camus said - are morals, when the best comes out, but also the worst of each. As in the great catastrophes, the pandemic is a stress test that challenges us and puts us to the test as a society and as individuals to each of us, and in the balance weighs more the good than the bad, because in the human being there are more things worthy of admiration than contempt, Camus also said. We have seen this in the titanic effort of those working in our health system and in other essential services. I wanted to give thanks to them and to them. Your decency is our vaccine against coronavirus. Thank you so much for such a noble task. And many thanks also to the majority of citizens, some of whom are listening to us today, who have shown a great capacity for sacrifice in these dramatic moments. However, ladies and gentlemen, this House has again witnessed today, as on other occasions, how in the same circumstances the worst, the pettyness and the indecency of the moral epidemic can also emerge. We've repeated it many times. It is not a novelty for the right to have a patrimonialist view of the State and to create illegitimate any Government other than its own. They did it with González, with Zapatero and also now. The indecent thing is to keep that attitude in the midst of the worst global health crisis of recent times. This attitude is unparalleled in Europe. Some people think this has something to do with our story. We are not by chance the only country in Europe in which fascism was not defeated and it had to be agreed with the franchisors in the Transition. Maybe that's it, I don't know, but that anomaly they see in Europe. I read The Financial Times: In some countries the pandemic has allowed political rivalries to be set aside. That is not the case in Spain. I hope, Mr Abascal, that after reading this you will not also be tempted to demand the closure of that British liberal newspaper as part of a global social-communist conspiracy. You can tell me from the bench on the right that I tell you all this because I am not in your place, because we are not in the opposition, but, if you want to know what a responsible right does and what we would do if we were in your place, you just have to see what yours and ours are doing in neighbouring countries, in Portugal and in France. I read a few statements from Jean-Luc Mélenchon, the representative of Unidad Podemos in France. They're from yesterday. You know him because he has a great oratory, a sometimes aggressive oratory. Yesterday it said: Our strategy so far was that of frontal shock on all issues, as a generator of political consciousness, but in this time of coronavirus the frontal shock does not favor awareness; it does the opposite, block it. That is why we have moved from that policy of confrontation to a constructive and purposeful opposition. I think that's what we would do, and I think that's what citizenship wants. I believe that citizenship is waiting for us to leave our zones of ideological comfort and to put aside the partisan struggle. Because, if not now, when? We are not asking anyone to give up their political objectives, but we are asking them for a little decency, as the WHO is also asking health professionals in their videos and their manifestos. Stop instrumentalizing the dead and the pain of others to achieve their goals, whatever these are: the suppression of the state of autonomy, the independence of Catalonia or the fall of this government. The COVID-19 has taken away a lot of things from us. Let us not allow the spirit of human cooperation to take away from us too, because every time we fight as humans the virus advances, it wins. That is why the truth is that I thank Mrs. Arrimadas and the Citizens who have understood that and made them right-wing responsible. Clearly, you believe that we are a social-communist government and that we are never going to govern together, but hopefully we can come to understand ourselves in the defence of public health. Mr. Married, I sincerely expected from you a change of attitude today, not because you have a lot of faith in your party and less after the unfortunate images we have seen of Mrs. Ayuso playing waitress, as you skipped the sanitary safety protocols. Not because of that, but because you actually had the opportunity today to present yourself as leader of the opposition and to live up to someone who, like you - not like Mr Abascal - aspires to be president of the government. Today's vote is, in fact, very far-reaching. We play to win the battle against the virus or to throw away all the sacrifice we've made. That is not what we say, as the experts, the constitutionalists say. Without extension this Congress would be leaving the social shield pending a thread and ending with a legal mechanism that is the one that allows the confinement, the limitation of mobility, the rules of distance or the obligation to wear masks in public transport. It is not true, Mr. Rufián, that nothing falls if the state of alarm falls. To this day the end of the state of alarm is the end of the ERTE and the moratoriums on rents and mortgages. It's true that maybe you could look for other formulas, I don't know. I don't know if they exist, they're not there at the moment. Many citizens are now watching this debate to see if they can go to work, whether they can go to the beach this Sunday or not. We are forcing them to stand by this vote. Mr. Rufián, I once told you that the race and the competition with Junts would only lead us to the precipice of VOX. I think those words today make more sense than ever. I wish you would listen more to your fellow Tardà, when he said a couple of days ago that you had to see more of the forest and not just the row of trees. We think we need more Tardà and less Torra. We need more the Left of Tardà than the Left that lives bound with the feet and hands of Torra, as it used to live bound to the Convergence of Pujol. We need you to regain the spirit of fraternity of Companies that you have so many times invoked from this rostrum to avoid the contagion of the sectarianism of Torra, because only from fraternity and republicanism can we defeat the virus of identity confrontation. I know you're closer to Tardà right now than your party; I'm convinced. I haven't spoken to you, but knowing you, I'm convinced of it. Because, by retrieving the words of the leader of the opposition of the Portuguese right we spoke of earlier, the fate of this plan of descalation is not the fate of a party, not even of a government, it is the fate of all, of all, of doctors and nurses, of cashiers, of carers, of all the people who need that social shield and who are awaiting whether or not they can fall with this vote. More than three million workers depend on the validity of the state of alarm, they depend on the economic umbrella of the State. That's why the unions are worried, and the CEO, IBEX and Ana Botella were supporting Mr. Married the other day, it seems. Mr President of the Government, our parliamentary group will support this extension of the state of alarm because the fate of its management is the fate of all, and because we are convinced that you and the Government will do everything possible to bring the country to a successful conclusion. Much criticism can be made of this Government, but the truth is that no one can doubt the titanic effort he has made in human and material resources to get out of this crisis differently from 2008, when the dismissals, evictions, were facilitated, when the bank was rescued instead of rescuing families, as we are doing now. The truth is also that no one had ever had to make so many decisions in such a short time in such a changing, complex, uncertain context. Another German philosopher, Walter Benjamin, said that while we are acting we are clearly going ahead of what is our own knowledge. Never before had that been so true, there is no precedent for a global quarantine or an abrupt economic stoppage without prior planning like this; despite the a posteriori captains, the prophets of the past or the epidemiological brothers-in-laws, the truth is that there are still many things that we do not know about the virus, or its expansion, that go faster than our ability to understand and react as human beings. That is why it is important to be flexible, not to make final decisions, we must be ready to dialogue and correct on the march when it is necessary without dogmatisms. In that regard, I would like to thank you, President, for having had that attitude: the attitude of a good leader, to listen and to change his mind when, for example, the decontainments by health zones that we told them or that the boys and girls had to be the first to leave the descalade. However, there are issues on which we need to deepen. I will point out two: the crisis cannot be - as Naomi Klein warned - an excuse to give white paper to arbitrariness, and there are images that we have seen recently that we do not like, that worry us. That is why we appreciate the speed of action when we stop, for example, the people who humiliated a trans person in Valencia. But there are still outstanding subjects: Spanish prisons. We need to go to a residential confinement of all those who are in semi-freedom or we need to go to an exceptional regularization process so that no person, born where he was born, is left without rights. On the other hand, we need more federal culture, more co-governance, because we have a debt to the autonomous communities and to the municipalities. I think it is fair to acknowledge that in this area, we still have a long way to go in terms of decentralization and territorial coordination. It is true that we have taken a giant step when we announced this unprecedented autonomous fund, but we must continue to work in that direction. Today, the best recognition of the multi-national state is to move decisively towards a decentralized exit from the crisis with co-governance. It is necessary to listen more to the territories that are closest to the citizens, the municipalities, the autonomous communities. And I end as I began, President, with Camus' reflection: the worst pandemic - we said - is morality, the pandemic of distrust, selfishness, insolidity or fear. At the moment when fear appears, it usually becomes catchy, suffocating and quickly contagious like a virus; then it has effects such as isolation, resignation, the neighbor's suspicion, because fear shrinks, paralyzes, returns to the most conservative, more fanatical, more suspicious people; with fear affections break, bonds, and individualism expands with its multiple forms of selfishness. Yesterday we were celebrating precisely the anniversary of the end of Mauthausen's hell, and we have to keep that in mind, because that's when that happens, when hate speech expands. This is where the extreme right is nourished, to inoculate his speech of hatred against the different, the emigrant or the vulnerable, to make them guilty of that discomfort. And a formula to overcome that is the mutual support, the creation of spaces of solidarity, of cooperation, whether institutional or social, like the APAM, and the exercise of decency, of decency that we talked about at the beginning of my intervention; because decency has a very important moral dimension, but it also has a material dimension. It does not defeat the virus of fear only being decent in our behavior, it defeats that virus when we can ensure decent jobs, decent income, decent housing, decent education and decent and decent public health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Rocío. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u15	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Two preliminaries, inevitable. The first is to answer to Mr Abascal. I'm going to let go of that defense you've made of the gay community, which I take as a joke, but I am going to answer the claim you've made of Mrs Merkel. Do you know what Mrs Merkel has always done in Germany - and I am not suspected of being pro Merkel -? Isolate the far right, isolate fascism. That's what Mrs Merkel has done. The second advance is for Mr Asens. Jaume, I respect you enormously. I understand perfectly well that you have been pulled out here to attack Republican Left, and you know perfectly well the unjust, the cheating of some of your words. I hope they will make you feel better after supporting this pact with Citizens. I've been in this for four years, though it looks like four decades, and I've won some things and lost many others. There have been good days and above all there have been bad days, but no doubt this is the worst, for the sad, for the cheating and for the frustrating of all this. I'm starting with a premise, some of which have heard me once. Referees like Joan Tardà, the great Joan Tardà - and I will always be, yes, very close to Joan Tardà - taught me that politicians are neither healers nor commercial; that politics is not a church nor a shopping center; that we are neither to repeat doctrine nor to sell products; that politics is much more than immobile dogmas or motivational phrases of breakfast cup; that the hemeroteca is to improve and not to giggle; that sometimes the politician, and they are sometimes tougher, has to say things that do not like, but that is our responsibility, and that does not make you any less pure, makes you more useful. The problem in politics is not junk food, which also, the problem in politics is junk politics, and there some will never find us. Fifty-five days, six weeks, a state of alarm, four extensions and three warnings. Today we do not see the Republican Left's no to the fourth extension of the state of alarm. Today, the government's no to negotiate with Esquerra Republicana the fourth extension of the state of alarm. It's the only thing that can be seen. Today we do not vote against an extension of the state of alarm. Today we are voting against your extension of the state of alarm. Because, let everyone know - and it's dramatic that we only say it ourselves -: there is alternative, there is alternative to this extension of the state of alarm. There is, in short, an alternative to re-centralisation, militarization and the regression of civil rights in the management of this crisis. I repeat - and it is dramatic that only we say it -: there is alternative. Irresponsibility is to manage a crisis like this as if it had an absolute majority. That's the irresponsibility. VOX is not the threat that must cause the left to blindly obey the PSOE. VOX is the threat that should make the PSOE agree and negotiate blindly with the left. The dichotomy between state of alarm or decontainment, between state of alarm or misery, between state of alarm or chaos, is not true. The dichotomy between rights or health, between health or freedom, between blind obedience or disloyalty, is false, is perversely false. Here the only real dichotomy there has been is that of the government, that of negotiating a state of alarm with PP or with Citizens or with us, and they have chosen the first thing. To say that today Esquerra Republicana votes alongside VOX is like saying that the PSOE votes alongside VOX when vetoing commissions of inquiry from the emeritus; it is the same intellectual level. It's fake. To say that Esquerra Republicana votes with VOX is like what they said in the State General Budgets a year ago there was no interprofessional minimum wage. It is false; they ended up adopting it by royal decree. As today they can approve and extend each and every economic and social measure and to alleviate the situation of economic and health crisis outside the state of alarm. To say that today we vote next to the right, next to the extreme right, is like saying that Colau is mayor on the right, by the votes of Citizens. It's fake, it's fake, it's on the same intellectual level. And that's the truth. Linking the state of alarm to life, or this state of alarm to life, linking everything that is happening to this re-centralizing, inefficient and abusive framework is blackmail; and in Royal Decree 11 yourself you acknowledge that any measure can be extended through the Council of Ministers. So, today they come to tell us once again that this state of alarm is what there is, it's what there is, it's lentils. And today we come to tell you that we are fed up with that 'it's what there is', because it's no longer worth the 'it's what there is'; that's enough. And for the sixth week and the sixth week, we tell them that that's enough. For you - and I am very sorry to say this - do not do it, ladies and gentlemen of the Government; you are forced to do it; and from time to time you have to tell them not to do it. And who knows best, who knows best are his fellow travelers, the Ladies of the United We Can. You know it perfectly; you know it perfectly. They know perfectly well that there is an alternative. I repeat, the dramatic thing is that only we say it. Where is the plurinational government? Where is the government of dialogue, if we find out about things through the press conferences? Where is he? We said we either stopped the country or ran out of country. We said that there was no point in going to buy one at a time on a Saturday and going on a subway to work on Monday; we said that there was no point in going to a hairdresser before you could go to the village to see your mother; we said that there was no point in going to get a vermou before you could go to a wake; we said that in making decisions you have in one hand the data of the virus and in the other the phone of the employer. We said all that and we say it again - we repeat it again - and we repeat that there are no sanitary criteria to continue justifying this - I repeat, this - state of unique command alarm in Madrid. This only extends the chain of decision in the territory without wanting to have the crucial, relevant, information of the territory. The reasonable thing is that you can decide the territory, which is who has the most information, and that is not nationalism, that is not ethnicity, that is not chauvinism; that is pure efficiency, because, I repeat, there is alternative. They leave out, jump and ignore who does have the information, who does have the skills, because - with all due respect to Mr. Illa - the skills do not have an empty - emptied - health ministry, they have the advice of the autonomous communities. Do you know what would happen if the state of alarm that will be approved is not approved today? Nothing; nothing. If the Government wanted nothing to happen, because in the current legislative framework, I repeat, in the current state and autonomous legislative framework, there are ways to continue with the confinement and to extend each and every social and economic measure to alleviate the situation. We are about to extend exceptional policies, not to extend exceptional states. Between giving them black flags and ties to eat people, between distributing squid jars in Ifema while you've been breaking from March 8th, there's an intermediate space; there's a space between that or absolutely acritic embrace any government decision, and in that space it's us. We do not say no to the sine die extension of the state of alarm, we say no to the sine die extension of having no rights, no more or no less. There is alternative - there is alternative -, there are two: the first, co-responsibility. If it is so important to maintain the state of alarm, why does the Government not burn its eyebrows by negotiating with those who facilitated their access to Moncloa? If you want to keep this frame, let's negotiate it. It was already done with the departure of boys and girls. He listened and got better. If I were United We could be very worried to see that every time the PSOE can turn to look at Citizens, ultimately to the right; it would be very worried. And two, horizontality, the Organic Law on Special Measures in Public Health, the General Law on Public Health, the Law on National Civil Protection and the Law on Autonomous Civil Protection. There are four laws, four existing laws that recognize mutual state-autonomy collaboration. Horizontality. Autonomies should not work for the Ministry of Health, they should work for people, and that is done through institutional respect. We are not in the autonomy to distribute or to deliver data - and you will see -, we are to correspond to decisions, and that is possible. Even in France, in the Elysée, they are delegating to the mayors. You lie, then, when you say it is this or chaos. There are millions of people who have voted - like it more or like it less - their autonomous parliaments, their autonomous governments, and have the right to decide how to get out of it. Even if you're wrong, you have a right. They paid attention to us with the moratorium on rent mortgages, they paid attention to us with the flexibility of the surplus, they paid attention to us with the departure of boys and girls, they paid attention to us with the reduction of VAT on social health material, they paid attention to us by taking the military out of the press. I ask you, please, to listen to us now: horizontality and co-responsibility. The alternative is the right, the alternative is Citizens. If you're so progressive and if you're so dialogueal, you'll notice. We repeat this again: nothing that has happened between Esquerra Republicana and PSOE in recent times is the result of innocence or candidity. Nothing. Everything is the fruit of circumstances and context. Nothing's free in politics. The only thing that is free is to give the PSC the third institution in Catalonia so that it does not have the Republican Left. That was free. Facilitating an investiture, as promised, to screw the Government into a dialogue and negotiation table is not free, it is an electoral commitment. And so we will continue, fulfilling electoral commitments. And today we welcome another: taking them from a tax margin to a collaborative framework. Without dialogue - I repeat it again, without dialogue - there is simply no legislature. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, the dead cannot be instrumentalised, they cannot be made with or by the flag that is made. Many - myself - have been accused of nationalists for this decision. Look, I'm not a nationalist. I am very clear that Catalonia is simply what is called that place on the map. For me a homeland is the keys to your mother's house, the bed where your son sleeps, the people who get up too early to go to work. For me independence can be an opportunity to expand rights or simply to become a neoliberal Länder. For me, that's independence. To say that Spain steals us is like saying that Palau de la Música or three percent steals us. No, we were robbed by those who managed it, which, by the way, were always the same. That some see Republican Left one day trapped by the Catalan right and another day as social-communist Bolivarians is simply because Republican Left right now wins, leads and has its own sense and critical sense, and so it will remain as long as I'm here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u17	I'll leave some of the allusions for my replica shift. Mr Sánchez, in my first speech in this Chamber I finished my words with a poem by Fabio Morábito entitled Ears. You don't remember, Mr. Sánchez; you certainly don't. And even if I wanted to tell you again, I don't have time and it would be in vain once again, because neither do you have ears. They say that it is a government that listens, but, in reality, it is a government that wants to be heard. He says he dialogues, but, actually, he just wants to be obeyed. It would be good to stop ordering and to let yourself be advised, because plan A - so much so that we have talked about plans - is evident that it has not worked, that the ranking of figures places Spain in the highest place of a macabre podium worldwide. They said there was no plan B and they ended up implementing plan C, with the citizens. We already know that he likes to make last-minute decisions, he's used to publishing early-morning decrees. This time, at least, he has made a deal at yesterday's dinner and the pact in extremis may have saved his vote, but he is spoiled, if not already, by the slogan of being the most progressive government in history because his alliances have mutated before the same virus. It has improvised measures and now improvised support as well. But, above all, they have dedicated themselves to making threats saying that we will be responsible for chaos if we do not support it; they threaten us between you or chaos, but they have already been told that you may be chaos. We are alarmed by his ingrainment, his ability to persist in error. We have been warning them, but they have ignored how many measures, proposals, resolutions and amendments we have put before them, up to 370, and this epidemic is a huge challenge, but the chronicle of its management is the chronicle of disappointment. It tells us that in the management of the pandemic there are no absolute successes, but that not approving the state of alarm is an absolute error. Do you like us talking about absolutism? Well, if you have assumed the powers in an absolute way, take on the responsibilities too, because not doing so is a mistake, in addition to a scam. It is heartwarming to have seen him defend today a state of alarm and a confinement that cost them so much to decree as to come to say that it would be an absolute, total and unforgivable error, as he has said, and to use emotional blackmail and the appeal to morality. Do you know what an absolute mistake is? All the dead, the infected, the failed businesses, the queues of people in social entities to be able to eat and a very long etc. That's a mistake. And, having assigned all the powers, know that it is also up to you. Would you like to extend the alarm state? We have always proposed to him to reform it. We told him here 15 days ago: another state of alarm is possible; I told him myself. That's why we're going to insist on no today. After two abstentions, this is our second no. And we are concerned about the evolution of the epidemic, of course, but we are further alarmed by the autonomous and democratic involution that you lead, and even more so when efficiency shines through your absence. They have assumed speed and anticipation, when what has been shown is that what defines their management is going to tow and rectify. And for sample, a button: your advance with data. On 11 March, WHO declared the pandemic. One day later, Catalonia confines Igualada, decrees the first drastic measures of containment by liberating aforos, closing educational and university centers, restricting activities. Two days later, President Torra asks for the total confinement of Catalonia, and that day you announce that the next day you will decree the state of alarm but that it will not enter into force until forty-eight hours later. And it was not until March 29, exactly sixteen days later, when the total confinement was decreed, with the aggravating fact that on March 25, Junts per Catalunya tabled an amendment calling for the total confinement, to which they resisted, and the Government voted against it, even though it applied it by Council of Ministers four days later. On 16 March, the Government of Catalonia sent out measures, including the abolition of the tax moratorium, and it was not until 31 March, once the self-employed and businesses had already settled their social security contributions, when you proved it. On 14 April, one day before the end of the period of residence of taxes, his Government approved a moratorium of only one month, and I suppose it should be about to approve the new one, as we have repeatedly requested, but they are also waiting for the last day. Rectifications: hairdressers; slots; Catalonia asked it, we heard the minister say that in no way, and four days later the departure of minors was approved and ten days later that of the entire population. There was no self-criticism, but at least there was rectification. Not to mention militarization, defective purchases, publicity campaigns, press conferences, trying to minimize opinions against his government or if Portugal stopped the pandemic earlier because it is a little further west. I'm done, President. People do not deserve this misconception, which would be worthy of the memorial of folly, but they do not deserve this uncertainty either. Far away is Minister Illa's headline: 'we are prepared', January 26, because they were neither, nor are they, and we doubt that they will be. Think that you have families who in these stages of descalation already have to go back to work and cannot take their children to school because they are still locked up and are considering leaving them with their grandparents. There is chaos in the management of the ERTEs that I have already told you that neither Kafka, and they talk about coordinating with the autonomous governments when they do not coordinate nor the measures you propose. Plan B, Mr Sánchez, existed, exists, and consists of listening to and, above all, applying common sense and trusting in the goodness of a truly decentralized State, but if you do not believe it, you will tell me who will believe it! We've long lost faith, we're in another phase. Plan B, Mr Sánchez, consisted of returning competencies, even if the price is to show their incompetence. Do it before it's too late, because the virus attacks people, but its errors, absolute or relative, attack the future of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Rocío. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm gonna start with the most important thing. Chesterton said that one of the drawbacks of the rush is that it takes too long. Today the good news is that the number of people infected is dropping, the number of people killed is falling, and we are beginning to defeat the virus. That is the most important thing to say here today. And we are doing so precisely because tough measures have been taken and because the Spanish people are complying. I would like us to shake a little that kind of complex as a provincial self-hate for which the Spanish people are undisciplined, do not comply and have to watch it all the time with the stick. The Spanish people are fulfilling, and precisely because they are fulfilling they do not deserve the ceremony of frivolity that we have seen these days. The government and the opposition cannot play with something that does not belong to them, which is the effort of the Spanish people, the discipline of the Spanish people and the hopes or fears of all the people who have fulfilled during these hard weeks. I begin with the Government because it has the primary responsibility, precisely because it governs. In my opinion, Mr President, sufficiency is a bad adviser. If you were to worry only the numbers, actually, today the extension of the state of alarm will come forward, and a cynical or a realistic, which are sometimes the same, could say: well, if it comes forward, the rest are just words. But the words weave shared meanings and complicitys, and today, Mr President and gentlemen of the Government, you leave this House with less support and less pens, and believe me that you will need them for what is coming. I am not so much in favour of repeatedly talking about big pacts like the Moncloa Pacts and more of practicing small agreements from day to day and from week to week, and for that you have to learn to care for Parliament and its supporters. It is not enough for VOX to call a line to support a government that, as it does not have an absolute majority, has to learn to negotiate, has to learn to dialogue and has to learn to listen. The decrees cannot be issued with two hours for the groups to amend them; blackmail cannot be used, because persuasion works more, and I refer myself to the evidence. Alternatives must be developed - if it has not been possible this time, they must be developed for the next time - so that none of the measures do fall, and we must learn to take care of the bloc that invested the Government. There was, Mr Sánchez, a majority that made it possible for your Government, which made you president, and because you didn't care for it today that majority has been cracking, it has been cracking, and you have had to seek the support of those who voted that not at that time. That path, in my opinion, is short-lived and does not bode well for the changes. Welcome everyone who adds to the responsibility that the Spanish people have shown in the confinement. I no longer understand so much that one joins responsibility in Spain and supports, sustains and sustains irresponsibility to the head of the Government of the Community of Madrid. I am addressing the People's Party: I have been used to not waiting very long, but, Mr. Married, at least we can expect to understand exactly what they are doing, because I hear you in this House saying that you have to wear a black tie because it is very important to mourn and because the situation is very serious, and then I see your party organizing the 'Ifemazo' and taking pictures distributing squid sandwiches or passing magazines, I do not know in what capacity, or caressing sheep. I want to know what the People's Party is playing at, because if you put at least half the effort in caring for Madrid's public health that you put in squandering the work in Spain and the work to get ahead of the virus, I think we would all do better. Today, from More Country, we vote yes to the extension of the state of alarm, and we do not do so because they deserve it, but because the effort of the Spanish people does not belong to it, it is not the heritage of any Government or of any party, and because it would also be the Spanish people, the most humble families, who would pay the broken dishes that in the end, by throwing on one side and on the other, the rope breaks. I was able to express in my conversation with the Vice President of Ecological Transition some of our fundamental concerns. We are concerned about mobility, which has to be a green and sustainable mobility, we are concerned that the law is still being used - which we are supposed to want to repeal - to punish citizens and that this can fuel or promote abuse, and we are fundamentally concerned about conciliation. Imagine the anguish of thousands of mothers and parents in Spain who have to go back to work and have nowhere to leave the children. That is why we have proposed a series of measures which propose, first of all, that there should be no juggling between family and life, between family and work, and which starts with a measure which proposes a benefit equivalent to that of temporary incapacity for conciliation, so that the burdens do not always fall on women. I'm done, Madam President. I started quoting Chesterton and I ended up with Nicos Poulantzas. He said that a defeat can also be a battle not waged at the right time, not having been able to set long-term goals in a declared crisis. This is a crisis that no one wanted and it is an unprecedented crisis, but it is also an opportunity to rebuild the country, and reconstruction has to be with social justice, fiscal justice and ecological transition. Not looking away and not taking advantage of the opportunity would already be a defeat, and today's is not a good sign or a good direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u20	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. When something is not clear, the Valencians have a phrase: What will we do: fire or escape? What shall we do: fire or flee? Ladies and gentlemen, are we here today to work for people or are we thinking about party revenue and the upcoming elections? Are we going to solve problems or create them? Are we thinking about the toilets, the people, or, as Professor Antón Losada said, do we want to manage the catwalk and the medals? Commitment is clear: people first. We do it in the Valencian government and we do it here. That is why, in each of these extensions, we have put forward positive proposals, some of which have been accepted by the Government, and that is why we are proud. That's the utility of Compromises. We proposed the price control of the sanitary equipment, the protection of the workers of the culture, the protection to which they were dismissed in the contract of practice, the reopening of the telematic public tender and the armoring of the public health in the Constitution, on which the president picked up the glove. Let us hope that it is not just a matter of collecting it, but that it will actually move from words to deeds. Today we continue to make proposals. First, that companies having their registered office or subsidiaries in tax havens are not eligible for aid. Those who pay taxes there cannot benefit from aid here. Secondly, that during this epidemic no autonomous community has funding below the average, that all can have the same liquidity to fight the epidemic; an epidemic that obviously does not know of deeply unfair and unequal financing systems. We defend that the municipalities can spend the money of those municipal huts to help their neighbors. Do you intend to authorize it? Finally, extend time limits to the municipalities in order to justify interrupted procedures. They are all reasonable proposals. I'm done. We will vote in favour, despite the fact that this Government has negotiated very little and late with the parties that we are helping to set it up; a government that has re-centralized a lot and trusted rather little in the absolutely indispensable role of the autonomous communities; a government that has often acted as if it had an absolute majority. We will vote in favour of respect for the more than 25 000 victims, of respect for all the health workers and for the workers who have taken risks for all of us. We will vote in favour of respect for the millions of citizens who for months have parked their lives, to whom they have lost work and income, to whom they have closed the blinds of their businesses with uncertainty and are not yet sure to open up. We will vote in favour because these citizens want solutions, agreements. We will vote in favour because for Compromís people are the first and the alternative, indeed, Mr Ábalos, could be chaos; the chaos of this right which has no proposal - in half an hour of speeches by the two right-wings, not a single positive proposal - and which flies over, like the vultures, in the misfortune of a country. But listen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, listen and take a long time to think. This country and these people do not deserve the uncertainty of the last three days. Think of plan B, C, D and whatever it is, negotiate it and explain it. Mr. Sánchez, remember that flowers, even those that are not in the vases, may one day fade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u22	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, from the outset the BNG maintained a constructive attitude in support of the state of alarm because we have always made it clear that the main objective is to save lives and that this is ahead of any political objective. We maintained it even when we found that on some occasions the Government did not act on this criterion. We maintained it even when our proposals - I think they were all absolutely sensible and carried out with a spirit of cooperation - were not taken into account or were taken into account late and insufficiently, as happened with the paralysis of non-essential economic activity. We have maintained and maintained a constructive attitude of political responsibility and, therefore, we are in favour of extending the state of alarm for the next fifteen days, because it seems necessary to us to end the control of the pandemic and save lives. But we know there are ways and ways to do it. We have already pointed out on previous occasions that we disagreed with the government's management and with concrete decisions, such as the centralization produced with the so-called Single Command in Madrid and the usurpation of competence of the autonomous communities, not for political reasons, but for health reasons, because it is negative for the practical effectiveness of the operation against the pandemic. Look at the state in which you have put the question that, in the face of a government of parties that call themselves autonomous and even at times federalist - which is precluding in centralizing - we are sovereignist political forces, that we do not defend the autonomous state because our objective is the sovereignty of our nations, which we are here defending the autonomous powers, in our case not the managers, but the national institutions of our country, of Galicia. If centralization didn't make sense in the climbing phase, let alone now, in the descaling phase. The criteria set out by the Government show the ignorance of reality in our country, which is very different from other territories. Have you taken into account, for example, that Galicia has more than half of the population of the Spanish State as a result of a dispersed habitat that causes many concellions, which far exceed 5000 inhabitants, to have no nucleus that is even close to that amount? Or that the provinces, created in 1833 to strengthen centralism and which do not respond to any defined social reality, have no meaning as a management area? In the view of the BNG, the area of decision at the phase of progressive decontainment should be Galicia, based on the general criteria that the Spanish Government would like to mark since its coordinating role. We have a different way of inhabiting the territory that they never understood in Madrid and that seems to be still misunderstood by this Government. That is why we are presenting a proposal for an amendment which we hope will be accepted this time. If that were the case, we would vote in favour. But, of course - and it ended - we see that instead of talking and agreeing with the sovereignist and leftist forces that we were supporting them, they preferred to do so with those who so far included in the ultramontane right. Anyway, you choose your way and we'll see where it leads. In any case, the BNG does not want to hinder the extension of the state of alarm and, therefore, even if they do not accept it, we will abstain, because - I insist - we disagree on how but we agree that the state of alarm must continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I cannot begin in any other way than by transferring the condolences from Citizens to the families of the more than 26,000 registered dead; today, by the way, there has been a rebound in the number of dead. And I want to start my speech by saying that we cannot normalize the pain, we cannot celebrate that there are days when there are almost 200 dead in our country. We are in an absolutely dramatic situation, there are many families who have had to fire their parents, if they have been lucky, through the mobile phone; many who have not even been able to attend their funeral. We are facing a dramatic situation, and I say this because sometimes political discourse seems to be disconnected from this reality. It was not written in the destiny of the Spaniards to have the worst data on the number of dead in the world, after perhaps some other country that already knows how it is doing the count. It was not written in the destiny of the Spaniards to be the country of the world with the most infected sanitary. It was not written in the destiny of the Spaniards to be the country of the world with one of the confinements or perhaps the hardest confinement but, at the same time, with the worst data in number of deaths. The Spanish will judge us all for what we have done during this crisis, but they will especially judge the Government, which has made great mistakes and which has come late and wrong to fight this pandemic. But what we need to do now is to know what the general feeling of the Spaniards is. There is a widespread feeling, first of all, of fear for their own lives, for their parents, for their grandparents, for vulnerable groups. Also of anger, because this crisis has not been managed well. Concern, uncertainty, but not only about the pandemic, but how this pandemic has been responded to from our country. And this feeling has occurred, yes, because it has come late and bad, but also because there have been improvisations; there have been many unilateral decisions, there have been corrections that have plunged the country into great uncertainty and also because there is no political unity, because there is no consensus, because there is no seeing a rhythm, a clear direction for Spain and because we have the international image right now very touched. We, from the beginning, have tried to be useful and have thought about the general interest of the Spaniards; in fact, we advanced many days before the state of alarm was decreed, I personally called the President of the Government to convey to him our enormous concern for the evolution of the virus. We have been pro-active, we have been loyal, we have had a sense of state, because we have only had one goal from the beginning and it has been to save lives and save jobs. And the hand we have had, the responsibility, has never been to cover up or justify the mistakes of the Government; in fact, we have been, we are and will continue to be very critical by firmly denouncing the enormous mistakes of the Government. But we have reached out to try not to repeat them, to try to correct them, to try to save the lives and jobs of the Spaniards. I would like to recall what is being voted on here today. I say this because, for some of the speeches, it seemed to me that some were in an investiture debate with Mr Sánchez with Mr Iglesias, and perhaps there are people in good faith who are seeing us today really think that we are issuing a vote in favour of Sánchez or Iglesias or in favour of this government. No, what we're doing today is just voting for this same Saturday to drop the state of alarm or simply extend it for fifteen more days. We are voting if we want this Saturday to be able to leave without any kind of control, if we can take the car and go to the beach residence, if we want the ERTE and the aid to be dropped, yes, because right now they are linked, it should not be so and the government will have to correct it, but today they are linked. That is what we are voting for today, and after this vote this Government will continue to have 155 seats, not one more or one less. The truth is that I don't think there's a single Spaniard who doesn't know what I think of the government of Sánchez e Iglesias; in fact, I was seen by all the Spaniards trying to avoid that formation of the government by raising the 221, while others were in the comfortable position of the no: that this government be formed, that they ruin Spain and then we will be voted on and we will fix it. We were all seen trying to avoid this government, but today we do not vote for the investiture of Mr Pedro Sánchez, today we vote if the state of alarm is extended fifteen more days or this Saturday the state of alarm falls with everything that it entails for the Spaniards. And I can admit that seeing Mr Sánchez's press conference on Saturday, perhaps some would have been taken away, because Mr Sánchez has spent eighteen days without calling the opposition, eighteen days; eighteen days in which there have been 7,000 deaths in this country. At that press conference Mr Sánchez really said that aid would fall and said that there was no plan B, which was a sense of threat in many Spaniards, but we have to think about the welfare of the citizens and to vote that yes to that extension of the state of alarm we have negotiated with the government, we have opened negotiations and dialogues with the government to avoid problems for the Spaniards, and we have achieved three conditions that I believe are very good and that even Mr Casado has acknowledged in his speech. The first is that the government prepares to untie the ERTEs and the aid for the declaration of the state of alarm, in common sense; when the state of alarm falls, there will be many companies that have not recovered their demand and, therefore, it makes no sense for companies to have to maintain one hundred per cent of the staff until they have one hundred per cent of demand. The second is that the Government needs a plan B. And yes, we all heard the President of the Government say that he needed a plan B, that he did not have a plan B and that there was no alternative. I think it is surprising, because the 155-seat government needs a plan B, it cannot tell the Spanish, Mr Sánchez, that if you one day lose a vote in Congress - a government that has 155 seats - it can no longer protect us in any way, it has no alternative. Therefore, the second of the conditions is that the Government is planning this orderly departure from the state of alarm to protect the Spanish from the health, economic and social point of view when that state of alarm falls, because the Government does not have an absolute majority. The third of the conditions is to call the opposition every week, to listen, to agree on the measures and also to take account, of course, of the autonomous communities. We will be very vigilant under these three conditions and we will be vigilant so that this does not imply any more privileges for some nationalist parties. But we need to talk about measures, for example, masks. We are in favour of increasing the mandatory use of masks, as has already been done in public transport; they should also be extended to other private areas where many people can continue to be infected. We are thinking of the interest of the Spaniards because I do believe that this government is capable of keeping its word and leaving the Spaniards unprotected on Saturday, and I believe that it is capable of not having a plan B if this state of alarm falls. Some today will think that this vote serves to overthrow the Government, but it does not serve to overthrow the Government, serves to avoid a state of alarm on Saturday. Someone could say that, well, that the state of alarm will fall, that chaos will come, that aid will end but that we will already be responsible for saying that it is the government's fault. Others, perhaps, are thinking that if the state of alarm falls, we will say that it is the opposition's fault. Well, why don't we focus on preventing that from happening? Why don't we try to live up to the Spanish and try to negotiate measures that we all know are good for millions of self-employed people and families at a time like this? Frankly, if this is a change of course, if this means that the measures will be agreed from now on, if this means rectifying some of the government's measures, I think it is something to celebrate. It is true that it is not an extension for fifteen months or for three months, it is an extension for fifteen days. I must also say, Mr President, that the state of alarm has been necessary to contain the pandemic, that the state of alarm has been necessary to maintain a general Spanish confinement, but it is necessary to think about the orderly way out of this state of alarm and, above all, to remind you, Mr President, that the state of alarm serves what it serves and should be used for what should be used. An alarm state moment cannot be used to process an educational law through the back door. An alarm status cannot be used to make appointments that do not meet the employee requirement. In fact, I would tell you, Mr Sánchez, that we are thinking about how to reduce the number of bars, duplicities and plugs so that we can cope with this economic crisis, the opposite of what has been seen so far. This crisis cannot be used to close the Transparency Portal, which we have indeed denounced even in the European Parliament. But we have to be a useful and clear party that we have an obligation to denounce the government's mistakes, but we also have an obligation to be useful and to make proposals and get good things for the Spanish. I will always think about the general interest of the Spaniards and I believe that many millions of Spaniards - think what they think, vote what they vote for - are looking at us again here today, in Congress, and they see no humility, they see no rectification, they see no hands stretched out; they see scorn. And I think it's an opportunity to tell the world that Spain can straighten the way. We don't deserve the data we have, it wasn't in our destiny to have the infected health care providers, to have this number of dead people. But I can assure you that every time we decide our vote in this Congress, every time we have to decide between the green button, the red button or the yellow button - of the favorable vote, against or abstention - we will always think about the general interest of the Spaniards. And these three conditions that we have achieved are good. Spain cannot leave the state of alarm this very Saturday, but it is true that the Government has to commit itself, as I say, to untying the aid this state of alarm, to preparing that plan B, that orderly exit from the state of alarm and, without a doubt, to having much more dialogue with the opposition and with the autonomous communities. Between being useful or useless, I have it clear, and between not contributing anything or trying to save lives and jobs, I also have it clear. So our vote is in conscience, I take absolutely responsibility for this favourable vote so that this state of alarm does not fall off next Saturday and I hope, Mr President, that the negotiations that we have had and the agreements that we have reached can be carried out and that a correction by the Government, which will certainly be good for all Spaniards, will begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to begin by putting a little perspective on what has happened in recent days, in recent weeks. Because many times events happen very quickly and we don't know exactly how we got here. When you asked us for the previous extension, I was the only one in this House who told you that I would ask again for another, that I would come today, and you made a gesture to me like saying: No, no, man or think. [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, I remember very well. I said to him, "Man, unless things go very well." I told him to use these fifteen days to get ready. For what? To set parameters, a generic framework that the State would do and that development and implementation would do so by the autonomous communities; but that the next extension - if asked and it seemed obvious to me that it would do so at that time - would have to be prepared and we would be in other conditions. What you are announcing at the end of April, the 26th of April more specifically, is a plan of a month and a half or two months, a plan that you do not consult with anyone, either with other institutions or with the autonomous communities, on how that descalation must be to what you have come to call the new normality. And it also sets us a parameter, a general criterion, which is the province, more peculiar to the French departments and French unitarism than to a state of autonomy. He also made us absolutely strange when, at the request of the press, he said: there are no exceptions, this has to be carried out like this, and insisted on the single command. Yes, that's what he said at the April 26th press conference: one-man command. Because, moreover, he came to say: this is not a race in descalation and a risk. And it seemed to imply with that phrase that, in the face of the responsibility and good judgment of the Spanish Government, the rest of the institutions and political agents were a little, as we would say in Basque, txoriburus, heads that could compete to see who ended up faster and who gave more freedom to do things to people. That mention of an autonomous career - which you mentioned and which has then been repeated by other government spokesmen - seems to me to be neither fair nor correct. It's true that we've seen some little show, but I think it's been an exception rather than a rule. We cannot maintain a situation of exceptionality in something permanent, but, given the circumstances and how everything was going, we have tried, as you well know, to be constructive, to look for a way out and that it was a joint way out. Of course, the health decree passed a few days ago by Mr Illa does not come out of nowhere either; he takes a certain direction and prepares the ground for a possible subsequent agreement, because we have been talking for a week. We are talking about the decree, but the order also came out and, although for us it is not perfect nor to the taste, at least it guided the ground. He was in charge of the ground, but it is still an order, which the Government can change perfectly the next day. That is why it is absolutely essential that things be clarified in greater depth and that they be clarified in this decree that Congress must ratify. It was necessary to expand the possibility of amending those measures and to do so through the text that the Congress ratified and that we have tried to implement, and I believe that the Government has understood that. Finally, it has coincided - and I want to think it will be directed like this - in co-governance, co-decision, in going hand in hand. None of us are crazy, nor do we intend to act irresponsibly, and let things get out of hand and go back to the exit box, much less, but I believe that it is necessary to carry things hand in hand and from a co-decision, allowing that initial rigidity to be modified by the autonomous communities to adapt it to reality and that even elements that are at different stages within the plan designed by the Government but that, according to the circumstances of an autonomous community, could be advanced or perhaps self-delayed. That is why our amendment says: modification, extension or restriction of the units of action and restrictions on the freedom of movement of persons, measures of containment and measures of insurance of goods, services, transport and supplies, in order to better adapt them to the evolution of the health emergency in each autonomous community. This is the spectrum of measures contemplated in the rest of the articles of this state of alarm. And, of course, once this is agreed, whoever implements these measures, who modifies them, is the person who holds the ordinary representation of the State in the autonomous communities in accordance with their own statutes of autonomy, which is the president or president of that autonomous community. I believe that agreements are possible, that it does not have to be anything difficult, based on the parameters of the situation of each autonomous community, especially health care, of course, but also of another kind, to be able to implement these margins. If you don't remember, it's going to become a political problem; I'm sure you can handle it. That has been our disposition and our work, trying to seek an agreement and trying to give a way to what could be a political mess. I would now like to say to you, Mr President, as I did 15 days ago, that I am preparing for the future in these 15 days, with a good understanding. He makes gestures to me; we each have our own point of view. I'm explaining mine to you, and you'll have yours. In the next fifteen days there has to be a good understanding with the autonomous communities and you have to think about how the implementation will be beyond this fifteen-day period of the state of alarm, because you have implemented the government's plan at different stages, but perhaps not all need the state of alarm in order to be able to develop properly. You should start thinking about that. There may be some places where it is more difficult and where it is necessary to restrict more, because, of course, at some stages there are talk of second residences and I already know that the provinces are mentioned, but perhaps it can be even wider at a certain time. There are cinemas and theatres open in phase two - I don't want to count you in phase three anymore - meetings of fifty people, etc. That state of alarm may not be necessary to tighten those movements firmly. Similarly in some sites of the State yes, but it is that the Act itself of the states of alarm, exception and site says that it does not have to be declared throughout the territory of the State. We would have to see what the reality is within a few days, but also the way to return to normality on the legal and regulatory level, because in my opinion it is not comfortable for anyone, and health laws could help us a lot in all this. I would like to make a reference - you mentioned it - to the economic injection that the government wants to give, the ERTs, social aid, etc. Legally, they do not depend on the state of alarm; another thing is that it has been said: until the end of this. Well, I don't think there's any way in which social aid, SME aid, or even some sort of prolongation of the ERTE after the state of alarm is over, because then we wouldn't have solved anything. In fact, I know that the Government has been working on it and is working on it, and I am not going to go into details, although some could be given. It makes no sense for many measures to disappear. The Government knows this, it is aware, and what it has to do is to shut down the end of the state of alarm and specify as soon as possible. I know it's not easy because we don't know what evolution is going to be either, but we're all aware that we can't tie it to the end of the state of alarm, and more knowing that we're getting closer and closer to that end. It is therefore urgent that a decision be already taken, which can then be rectified, but that a decision be already taken in these areas. He also announced economic measures, money, etc., and said that the State was going to assume a debt. Well, Mr President, I would tell you that indebtedness cannot be assumed by the State alone. It should not only be taken up by the State, but there should also be a margin for the rest of the institutions, for some depend on their own resources, that is, on the collections they make and not on the transfers of the State. The State has already assured the autonomous communities of common system of the revenues that they will have according to this year's collection estimate; however, the outside institutions, in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Navarre, do not function in this way. They depend on their resources and, therefore, if there is going to be a fall in State revenue, logically, there is also going to be a fall in income in Euskadi and in the Navarra Foral Community. It would logically be that the indebtedness that the Government is going to assume would also be allowed to those outlying communities, with the same idea, with the same logic that you are working. By the way, a small precision, but only a small one. The Minister of Finance is not here, but I hope she is following the debate and if not someone tells her. You mentioned, Mr President, the extraordinary fund of 16 billion for the common system communities. I'm just going to make a reference. See Section 11.4 of the Economic Concert Act. I'm just finishing up, Madam President. Our amendments are aimed above all at trying to unravel a complicated situation for all from a collaborative and co-management disposition, because we believe that this is the best way we will be able to function. I assure you that this manifests it with absolute loyalty. I am convinced that we will be able to reach agreements. I also tell you to think about how to modulate that future. On the other hand, much has been said before about preserving rights and that the state of alarm implies that certain rights cannot be preserved. There is a situation of institutional and democratic anomaly in both Euskadi and Galicia, as is well known, since elections were called and then had to be suspended - moreover, in a way that was not provided for in the legislation, because no one could predict that such a thing could happen - to be resumed later. You're predicting a new normality. If in phase 2 - and I do not say in phase 3 anymore and in the new normality - meetings can already be held, bearing in mind that from the time the elections are called until the vote is passed fifty-four days, even if the exercise of the vote can be requested from the first day they are called, there is no problem in calling the elections. But it would be necessary or desirable - not so much necessary but so much desirable - and hence our amendment, that, in the event that they were called, the postal services, the services of public fedataries or the electoral administration could function properly, and to that the State must give good coverage. I insist, if we can ensure that the meetings of the citizenry up to fifty people already in phase 2 will be done normally, how are we not going to be able to secure the basic right to vote? I think it's actually a lot easier. Finally, I want to make a reference to the enclaves. From Madrid capital we think the world is flat, but the territories are complicated. There are some municipalities - without having to be enclaves - in which, by the orography, their communication, where they go to buy, where they go to study, where they go to the doctor, is with another province. In some enclaves, those within their own autonomous community, this could be solved by the amendment that we have tabled through an agreement between the Government of Spain and the Government of that autonomous community, but there are other enclaves that belong to different autonomous communities. And what is your reality from day to day? Well, the one in the province that surrounds them. Therefore, for the purposes of the health emergency and as long as we are in this situation, it is logical that the measures to be implemented or the degree of greater or lesser control of the province surrounding them be the one applied to them. Otherwise, some poor people won't leave the village. There are some municipalities that have very few square kilometers to be villa too. They're detailed. From Madrid it seems all flat, but the world is round and very complicated. We are therefore also trying to help in all this, although the key to the amendment is the co-management, co-participation and hand-in-hand between the governments and, above all, that those governments that know the ground better, which are those of the autonomous communities, can, depending on the powers that are already theirs, implement the measures in accordance with their reality and without this having to be monitored on a timely and daily basis by the Government of Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u29	Good morning. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Madam President. First of all, I also want to remind all the families hit by this pandemic in which they have lost their loved ones, and I also want to remember today the families of Joaquín and Alberto, on this day when it is three months since the rubble in the landfill of Zaldibar has remained buried. Go from here our hug to your family. After this preview, in this debate today I will start at the end to be as clear as I think we need to be right now. It will not be Euskal Herria Bildu who drops the state of alarm, and we will not do so for a simple reason, because this would lead to more uncertainties to which the citizen already has, because I do not know if you have heard, ladies and gentlemen, but people are afraid, they are afraid of the epidemic and fear of the black economic future that awaits them. For this reason, in no case should we be here to generate more chaos or uncertainty, because each and every one of us here is here to give certainty and certainty to the citizenry, not the other way around. We are to respond to your demands, but it seems that most of you do not listen. We don't understand if not, how you can be playing this way with something so serious. And this applies to you and your Government, Mr Sánchez, and to that opposition which is embarking on a strategy of destruction taking advantage of something as serious as this pandemic which is haunting us and which has not yet - I remember - disappeared. There have been plenty of examples in recent days that politics is more like a bazaar than an activity in which values and responsibilities should prevail. This is not a casino, ladies and gentlemen; with people's rights you can't trade, and we won't get into this macabre game. When citizens need politics most, when they expect answers and responsibility, in the midst of the worst crisis, the political class is failing. While people are asked for responsibility every day, when it comes to demonstrating it here, the political class takes the worst of itself and sets the worst possible example. This is not the way we understand politics. We believe that we cannot play with the health of citizenship, which right now is and should be the priority. And yes, we are very critical with the way to manage the state of alarm, we are very critical with the recentralization of competences, we are very critical with the inadequacy of economic and social measures to protect citizens. We are, but we're not gonna put people at risk. So far, we have been prudent and responsible, and we have not come here to cast a blind eye because, in our opinion, the situation is not for that purpose. But we ask you, Mr Sánchez, that you also have that responsibility and that prudence for those who are and are acting in this crisis with criticism, yes, but always with the aim and the will to improve. So today - and I am doing this from a more personal point of view - seeing how this week of blackmail and regattas has been going on, I share my criticism of that right-wing opposition that is seeking political defeat at the expense of something as serious as this pandemic with the criticism of the government for maintaining positions that are at all costs out of logic and common sense. Because you and your Government, Mr Sánchez, are the ones who have the primary responsibility for what is happening, because it was your Government that made a basic mistake, the mistake of centralizing the powers, arrogating the single command and acting with the closure of the order and command, without having the other institutions and the other political actors to co-lead the decisions in this pandemic, and we regret that instead of substituting it, it has persisted in its error. Virtually all the opposition forces that, whether active or passive, allow their investiture we are raising, over and over again, the same problems and the same requests. There are other ways of managing the state of alarm, Mr Sánchez, and you know it, and when you refuse to explore them, you are the one who is missing your responsibility as president and government. Do not attempt to pass on your responsibility to others. Today we have made a proposal to add to the state of alarm that we sincerely believe is logical and common sense, and that it is the autonomous communities, always in coordination and collaboration with the local and regional institutions, that can design, manage and develop the plans of descalation, naturally, in coordination with the Ministry of Health and with the validation by the ministry of these plans. Doesn't that make sense to you? Do you not think that it is possible to descale without risk and gain, however, in efficiency, in reaction capacity and, above all, in knowledge of reality? In our territory, when facing the health crisis of COVID-19, it is the local and health areas that frame better management, more effective and logical. That is the best measure, that is the best unit of action against the virus, the local one, because it is the one that knows the health, social and economic situation best. This formula is the most suitable to existing realities, the safest for citizens and the easiest to manage to get the descalade to a good port, which is what I want to think we all want. Mr Sánchez, we will be responsible, as we have been so far. We have criticized what we felt was wrong or insufficient, but we have always accompanied every criticism with an improvement proposal, always. Today we present a formula that we believe can be satisfactory for all political institutions and forces and that, above all, it can be beneficial for citizens, because we owe it to them, to citizens. Today we will abstain, but, Mr Sánchez, do not understand for a second our abstention as a blank cheque, do not understand it as loyalty to the Government and much less to you; understand it only as it is, a position of responsibility and loyalty towards the citizenry, because our main objective has been and is to protect people in health, economic and social terms. That is why we will abstain, not to add zozobra to the population, which is now looking towards the ERTE, towards the job it had and does not know if it will again have, towards that dark horizon which is right there, around the corner, and which hangs like a sword of Damocles over thousands of families and people. But I also want to give you a warning or, rather than a warning, a advice. You must listen, Mr. Sanchez. You are the president, you are the government, and therefore it is you who must get the support of the opposition, and not the other way around. It is up to the opposition to be responsible, yes, but the first responsible must be you, because it is you who governs, who governs in minority, moreover; it is you who must earn the support, not demand it or give it for the facts and wait for it to commune with them. It cannot continue to demand responsibility from them, nor can it be assumed that, whatever happens, the responsibility of some will be imposed. Everything has its time and its limit. Either we're all responsible or something breaks down. We understand, for all this, the positions of those who, from the will of collaboration, have gone face to face, posing the risk of not supporting him in the extension of the state of alarm because of his irremovable attitude in the centralization of power. We understand them because they are determined by this attitude of the Government, which apparently does not mind breaking the support block that led you to the presidency. But you, instead of rebuilding the bridges with those who made the investiture possible, have chosen to agree with the right. We hope that this will not be the front door of new agreements and that it will not be tempted to continue along that path, because it may gain some punctual support, but it will lose many along the way. Pacting with Citizens, Mr Sánchez, is synonymous with neoliberal policies and re-centralisation, incompatible with a progressive exit and a multi-national conception for which, at least on paper, his Government was betting. We have already told you in your day: the right will want to benefit capital and its interests and the left will want to protect the social and working majority. While we want to promote the public and the common, to offer guarantees of life and decent work for all, your new allies on the right will want to privatize the common and precarious life. We hope that it will not make the balance, once again, lean in favour of the few to the detriment of the many. This week, Mr Sánchez, it has been Kafkiana, so much so that we have come to move the debate of the media on whether there are possible alternatives through other legal frameworks for the fall of the state of alarm, which has been a real and plausible option. There may be alternatives, other laws or articulated ones that can be put in place to replace the current one, yes, it is as much as possible. In any case, tell me, when we have not finished understanding what is going on, when, by not understanding, we have not yet internalized or assimilated what the four stages of descalation mean, do you think that you can take things to that limit and subject the citizen to this added stress and fear in this way? Do you think this is serious, really? The people, those people that many and many do not seem to see from this watchmanship of Congress, what they want is to know how they are going to get their jobs back; what is going to be of their life in a month; what is going to happen to the shops that barely survive in front of the apisonadoras of the malls; what is going to be of them and them. That's what they care about, not if this or another law can extend or not this or another measure. They want answers, no more questions, and it seems that most Members of this House do not even understand it. I said that this week has been kafkiana, incomprehensible from many points of view. We also find it incomprehensible that the pandemic issue should be used to force the Government to yield not to common interests for Basque society, but to party and electoral interests of a political force. This is very serious. We also find it incomprehensible and grave that the spokesman minister has made it clear that the Government is going to have the remaining treasury of the municipalities. Another barbarity; a barbarity that I hope will not be true and will be clarified as soon as possible, Mr Sánchez. Look, we are living in a critical situation, also for this government, a situation that is not easy, I know, and I also know that you come to this House to ask for an extension every two weeks, that your government is subject to parliamentary control and that the Minister of Health appears weekly informing and collecting questions, complaints and proposals of all kinds. We value that attitude; it is much more than other institutions and governments have done, but it is not enough, and we therefore criticize it, because this whole situation has been created because his Government has not had the waist to negotiate, to dialogue and to agree. Mr Sánchez, do not break the bridges and rebuild the supports by listening to and responding to the logical and common sense requests that a large part of the opposition has made for you to get here and you are doing it today. You ask us for responsibility and height of sight, and we believe we are demonstrating them. Do so too; let us not add any more shambles to the future. We are, indeed, to create security, not to generate fear and uncertainty. Let's learn and move on. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which now has its turn in reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning. I'll start with three previews. To the lords and ladies of VOX - Mr Abascal is not, but surely he sees me from some screen -: His flag - which must be that of the eagle - has extorted, persecuted and killed many homosexuals and everyone who opposed the dictatorship, so stop instrumentalizing the dead and the gay community. A Podemos: We have been accused during the last week of voting with the extreme right and have been asked many times why. What we are asking ourselves is why you critically support a government that shields the military, the monarchy and the bank, and why most left-wings support the discourse that there is no alternative. And, Mr Asens, one detail: in fifteen days you have approved neoliberal budgets with Mr Torra and a state of alarm with Citizens. And to Esquerra: Mr.Rufián, they are not the only ones who talk about the alternative. We are glad that they are coming to the fact that there is an alternative, and ours is going to be to build some Catalan countries that are free, popular and democratic. We're sure we'll find ourselves on it. And to the Government: Mr. Sánchez, it is not a novelty that we are not going to vote for the state of alarm, what is new is that you say things that are not true. It is not true that the state of alarm is the only way to confine - you have health laws to explore -; it is not true that the state of alarm is the only way to guarantee housing - even the Spanish Constitution shields it -. What should be served by the state of alarm is for the democratic intervention of the economy, but you are giving the money to the bank. See, in 2018 the Spanish bank increases its profits by 22%. You have not returned the ransom; however, at the BOE on 1 May, you transferred EUR 112 billion to the bank to cover the interest on housing credits. You are giving public money to the bank and also to large companies, and I give you the example of ERTE. HandM has made an ERTE of 6124 workers; HandM had a profit last year of 14,445 million euros. Citizenship knows that when there is an ERTE it is the State that covers the salaries. Imagine: HandM, 14 445 million euros in profits and the state pays him salaries. In the face of the plundering of this collective wealth, we understand that you, together with Mr Marlaska, are applying the framework for the control of public order. In fact, you said that 99% of Spaniards have had exemplary behaviour, and we agree. However, the Ministry of the Interior continues to maintain the deployment of the police forces and the military; it does not clarify in the document of the descalation when they are going to withdraw from our streets; you have put more than 800,000 sanctions - before the President of the Government said another number; we have taken it from the website of the Ministry of the Interior - and even the Constitutional Court failed last week against the demonstrations of 1 May. We cannot express ourselves, but we can go to work: nothing new in this Government. We understand that, as the situation is limited and you have not touched a single privilege, neither banking nor big fortunes, you have to protect; you fear that people will rise. You said: There is no freedom violated. It is not the same as the Institute of the University of Gothenburg, an Institute linked to the Department of Political Science, says. It warns that the Spanish state is at medium risk of taking measures against the rights and freedoms of citizens. It is not true, Mr Sánchez, that there is no freedom violated. You are using the state of alarm to plunder the public arks and to extend a state of siege, control and limitation of freedoms, and we are not going to contribute to that. I want to tell you that there is an alternative, there is always an alternative from the left, and also that dialectics with the extreme right all it does is that you seem communists. They are not doing any favors to their beloved Spain or to this Parliament, because they are giving them the story and doing the same thing that happened in the Supreme Court's trial: that these people mark the story. The extreme right must be isolated, not dialogue with it; the extreme right cannot be given, it cannot be given to mark the public discourse, and this is what you are doing to save yourself in front of the citizenry as if you were a left-wing government. I ended up greeting the Catalan workers of the Nissan, who are on strike. Yes, we said: this state of alarm will be followed by strikes. They already have the first: that of the Catalan workers of the Nissan. Mr. President, you were asking for responsibility from the citizenry. Well, surely in this situation the greatest responsibility that citizens can have is to fight for their rights. Thank you very much. Dream the fight.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send an emotional reminder to the 25 000 people who have died, to the 40 000 health care workers affected and to all their families and, secondly, I would like to express my joy at the incorporation of our Vice-President Carmen Calvo. Mr President, at the end of the day, what I said to him in the investiture happened: he had partners who were not reliable and who at the time when the country's interests had to be put above the electoral and personal interests would fail him. Coalition Canaria has supported all the decrees, not only those of the extension, but also the others, without any glue, even though we could not make contributions, even though no one from the government called us. On Monday we decided not to be an obstacle to the extension, but not to again support it, because we need to listen, we need parliamentary agreements and we need what you said in your speech today: to adapt the future to the territorial reality, to the participation of the autonomous communities and the administrations - that co-governance - and to recognize the special difficulties that some territories have. I give you a data yesterday: in the Canary Islands more than half a million people are unemployed or in an ERTE, in a community that has 2 million citizens, and if those ERTE became unemployed 60% of our community would be affected. The government has announced a distribution of funds in which Canaries is again damaged, because it is going to take precedence over those who managed the worst or those who had the most problems - I am not going to enter into this controversy - because a significant part is divided according to the sick, the ICU, etc.; another part, according to the income that is no longer received from the state, in which Canaries is not there either because it does not have those taxes, and, in the end, according to the population, and we have fewer populations. The Canary Islands Government has managed the health crisis well and we need to keep talking about other things. My party had decided to vote for abstention, but yesterday afternoon I received the call from Minister Ábalos on his behalf, when our vote was no longer necessary - and I want to say it here - to see the possibilities of starting another path, of dialogue and of support, because we have gone through the hardest, but it comes the hardest, which is to rebuild this country and give hope to people that it can have a future in this country. I told him I agreed, but there is a canary reality different from the rest of the communities, because for us it is not a problem of descalation but of international openness and the weight of tourism, which accounts for 50% of employment. We reached an agreement early in the morning so that it could be announced that in the case of tourism, exclusively for now, and in the case of the Canary Islands, the ERTE would be extended under the same conditions as the time it took until international markets were opened. That's a way, it's to start talking and contributing. I finish, Madam President, with a phrase that I liked very much the other day, and that says: One of the tests of leadership is the ability to recognize a problem before it is an emergency. Canary Islands is going to go into emergency in the coming months, and I am glad - I would have liked it to be earlier, but I am glad - that the Government is beginning to recognize this problem and is willing to talk about it together with the Canary Islands Government and with the political forces that we are here. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much, Conchi. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, as you know, Nueva Canarias has supported all the measures of the alarm decree so far, despite the differences we have expressed on some occasions. We have also insisted that centralist practices seriously harm all communities, and more so the Canary Islands, given their uniqueness. There has been none of the Canary Islands' proposals which, as we can see, have put us in the difficult position of having doubts about voting for what we agree on, but we have reflected deeply and decided some things in New Canary Islands. Firstly, we are not going to trade in any case with the health of the population and, therefore, we are going to support the extension of the state of alarm, because the clear reasons for public health so require. Secondly, there has been a change in his speech; we have heard him speak of co-governance, with more emphasis on asymmetry - necessary, because we are asymmetric - and this is better, it is better. In addition, there has been progress in some discussions with the Minister of Health, both with the Government of the Canary Islands and with me, in which he has now given a quick response to an urgent meeting between the Government of the Canary Islands and the State to discuss the Canary Islands' singularities in this whole issue. We are also pleased - we have just heard - that Mr Ábalos supports a position on the extension of the ERTs, to which the Minister of Labour had already expressed her support on day 4 to the Government of the Canary Islands. Therefore, very well, that indicates that there is general agreement. However, we insist, the consequences of this crisis in the Canary Islands are a social fracture. This is monstrosity. That is to say, I now sign 20% unemployment, an unemployment that is announced in the state media as the drama that we are going to reach, and I sign it now because we are going to double if this continues. We need a different response because we are in a different situation, but we also have some elements that are an advantage. The Canary Islands have managed to generate a surplus of between EUR 3000 and EUR 4 billion. This is a lot of money for the Canary Islands and it is absolutely necessary to give a response to the social fracture that will necessarily occur to us. In addition, look what, the Canarian community is the least indebted community of all the Spanish common system communities, by the way. Look at what opportunity to authorize the indebtedness capacity of a community that has met as no one else, because now treating us as well as others is hurting us, that is, those who have met are more harmed than those who have met less. I understand that the needs of everyone have to be met, but we need bilaterality in this and I trust that this is the way we are starting. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Firstly, once again, from the Union of the Navarro People, we want to convey our memory to all those people who are suffering all these days because of the coronavirus, especially those who have seen their relatives die without being able to say goodbye, both those who come out in the figures and those who do not appear in the figures but who, of course, have also died in very special circumstances. You have to have a memory for all of them. It will also allow me, Madam President, today, 6 May, to have a special, very special memory, for Tomás Caballero Pastor, spokesman for the Union of the Navarro People in the City of Pamplona, who was vilely murdered today twenty-two years ago by the terrorist band ETA. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Here I have to tell you - and it hurts me to say it, Mr Sánchez - once again that you know that you are president with the votes of those who celebrated that murder and who never condemned you. I have to tell you, and I have to ask you if it's worth passing that red line. Was it worth it? He'll answer us if it's worth crossing that red line. If you listen to the president of the government today, it will seem... [[Rumors]] It doesn't make me any fun, Mrs Calvo, it seems to me to be a very serious issue, the most serious thing that has happened in this country with what is happening now. In any case, if we hear the President today, we might think that the best state to live in Spain is a state of alarm, because he told us that during the state of alarm people have where to sleep, people have to eat, people are well cared for, etc. Man! What is expected is that people are treated well before the state of alarm, during the state of alarm and when the state of alarm ends. Let us hope that people will always take good care of it, not just in states of alarm. I believe that this is a little the opposite world, but, of course, the opposite world of the whole government. If we hear from the Minister of Labour that she is happy that there are many unemployed... Governments usually rejoice when jobs are created, not when there are many unemployed people. Governments are happy to generate employment, not to create unemployment. I believe that these are issues that need to be put on the table. We have been responsible; we have voted the states of alarm and we have voted the decrees without anything in return. We voted because we understood that it was an exercise of responsibility to vote, and we did so like many others here. We have been much more responsible than some who supported him in the investiture, much more. It is true that, in return, what has been received has been to speak to no one. I'm not telling you now that I'm talking to us, but the normal thing would be to talk to everyone, to talk to the opposition, but day by day, not when you've been caught up in a boundary scenario where there's no longer any chance; that's when you've called people. We've been like this for almost two months. The normal thing is to talk with the autonomous communities, but not to give them a conference, but to interact; to talk with them, to trust them, because the presidents of the autonomous communities know their territory, as the mayors know theirs. So we need to talk to them, we need to talk to the citizens as a whole. If a group like that of the hoteliers says they are in bad condition, we must not tell them not to open the establishments; we must talk to them to see how they can open those establishments, because we have to think about the day after, because we have to think about how we raise the country. In that sense, and with regard to the change that seems to have forced those with whom he has made a deal in the last few moments, we will see whether it is true that openness and that talk with the whole world, because we will be in everything that is to be built, in everything that is to improve the country. We trust the Spanish as a whole. The Spaniards are acting phenomenally in this situation, they are very responsible. Of course, the Spaniards are much more responsible than the government that governs them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor. Mr. MAZÓN RAMOS: Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all knew that more extensions were going to be needed for the state of alarm, almost everyone took it for granted and we all took it for granted and no one questioned their need. In addition, no one felt bad about the president coming here every fifteen days not only to ask for permission for the extension, but also to report on the evolution of the pandemic. In fact, this has been demanded of him from many of the seats in this Congress. Seventeen decree-laws have been enacted this year, almost all related to COVID-19, and all who have come have been validated by this Congress. Apart from the specific criticisms there were, it seemed that we all agreed on the basics, to control the contagions and to cure the sick and the affected and to protect the population with social and economic measures. And what happened during this time so that things got so complicated? That the parties that are not in the government and the rulers of the autonomous communities have felt none, and this should not stop seeing you. The requests of the Autonomous Communities to manage decontainment have been virtually ignored during this period, and I do not think any of them would like to separate themselves from the overall strategy. In Cantabria, of course, this has been so. His plan of descalation is a good one, in general terms. It is up to you to do so, it is the government and it is assumed; in addition, things can be changed. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria will therefore vote in favour of the extension. Besides, from what we've heard here today, it looks like you're already going to put the roller aside. That is why I say to the gentlemen of the government that they delegate without fear to the autonomous communities. I'm sure they're all going to propose reasonable things. They're their skills and they're going to do it very well. In addition, they are the first to be interested in this. In Cantabria, I guarantee you that's how it's going to be. They have already heard President Revilla at the conferences they held with the President. All the petitions - by the way, today will arrive in writing from the Cantabria government - are logical things, which at no time endanger the control of the pandemic. I'm the one who thinks he hasn't done anything wrong. Here it seems that everyone wants to present statistics compared to other countries. We are not the best, but neither are the worst, as they say, nor much less. Everyone takes the parameter they want, there's for everyone. What is true is that there is much missing to know about this virus, much missing to know about how it affects different people and what are all the factors of its spread. This would justify many differences, although then we will see that there are not so many. In fact, the ones who know the most about this are the ones who talk the least. That is why I want to say to the opposition, primarily the People's Party, that if they want to protest at how badly this government is doing, as they say, they have already been heard, but if they want to be constructive and really want this to end as soon as possible, they should change their position. You have voted in favour of the extensions and the decree-laws: it would be an inconsistency now to change this course we are going for, it would be like withdrawing from the party when we are still in the first place. I would ask you to join the Government, to join you, because the Spaniards are going to thank you. I am also convinced that the Government will change its attitude. You, Mr. Sanchez, I think you should call Mr. Married every day...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u39	Mr. Mazón, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u40	I'm done. I think I should call you every day, because at the moment, apart from being the government's alternative, we are seeing how we are able to make that state pact - by the way, tomorrow we will see at the first meeting of the Commission how it is presented - and we will see what is the real will and what is willing to give up each one. So cheer up, Mr. Married, you are very important; well, we are all very important. Returning to the extension - and I finish - we already have quite a complicated regulation. Of course, you can propose another new scenario and another new legal regulation and continue to complicate things further, but I am convinced that in Cantabria, of course, the cantabres would not understand it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I will vote against this fourth request for an extension of the state of alarm because after almost eight weeks the measures that Spain needs to deal with the health emergency resulting from the COVID-19 would, in any case, require the declaration of the state of emergency, ending the impairment of rights in which its Government has converted both home confinement and the limitation of the activity of many productive sectors or the curtailment of free movement. If there is an alternative that is not chaos to your extension of the state of alarm, but you intentionally hide it for your personal political interest with a management in which the priority has been propaganda. Today we are suffering from the umpteenth manipulation of public opinion, which is the subject of the Government's decree trying to give the date of March 11 as the beginning of the pandemic in Spain, which is manifestly false because it began month and peak before. However, the Government's irresponsibility wasted precious time on preventive measures and failed and continues to fail in the logistical provision of basic materials to protect the health of the population and especially exposed professionals. That is why Spain is, with increasing and exponential difference, the country of the world with the highest percentage of infected health care workers, and the most prestigious international indicators place us in the last place to react to the warnings of massive and very aggressive infection. In the midst of this misadjustment emerged the fourth vice president, assuming that Spain is in the high-end of success, proclaiming an absurd theory of the virus that entered the East and disparaging our hoteliers. Mrs Ribera has already caused the collapse of the diesel sector and now the tourism sector is sinking. Ladies and gentlemen, since the state of the weapon has been overwhelmed in its content by several real decrees of urgent social and economic measures to deal with the coronavirus and its development regulations, I have tabled a set of motions for resolutions which I take for granted, stressing that freedom can only be suppressed by constitutional instruments such as the declaration of a state of emergency and because the measures adopted without this coverage become null and void, as I have already pointed out in the debate on the previous extension. In short, the alternative to the arms decree is the legal basis for managing the crisis without extending the existing exceptional regime and are, inter alia, those contained in the General Law on Public Health, the Law on Citizen Security and the Organic Law on Special Measures in Public Health. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor last.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u44	We, ladies and gentlemen, will support the extension of the state of alarm, and we will do so because it is recommended by the scientific committee, mainly. Also because not prolonging it would be an obvious health risk that we do not want to run, and also because not prolonging it would send an equivocal and confusing message to society, which would induce a relaxation for which we are not yet prepared. After the sustained social effort that has been made, we must end and win the battle. It looks like today doesn't matter the numbers anymore. However, in the last two weeks 40% of health care workers have been infected, 40% have been infected. That means we still don't know how the virus works, because, theoretically, it happened when there was protective material, and the virus is out there. I think we're trivializing the situation, but it's still tremendous, it's still the party's first quarter of an hour. The Government will have been wrong, of course - in all countries there have been mistakes, and nothing happens to recognize it, we are managing a situation of historical and dramatic crisis - but they must acknowledge that they have been wrong and must be corrected. We have pointed out three or four aspects, which we believe to be very important, which are transmitted to us by the citizens, for example, on the press conferences lack clarity and there is an excess of data. We have to make it clear, we have to give simpler messages, and not stifle with excessive information, which is often not able to digest. Secondly, the veterinary sector does not understand how they have not been resorted to, when they have tremendous experience, as happened with the crisis of mad cows, in the management of epidemics of animal origin. They are prepared to make PCR and there are many laboratories available. This sector should also be used if necessary. And then a more ideological question: we do not believe that the real decree-laws linked to the COVID-19 should be used to legislate other issues. This causes uneasiness and lack of understanding in the citizenry. It is not understood, for example, how the legislation and property regime of the passive classes has changed in a COVID decree, how a change is made in the relationship of terms in the courts of first instance or how structures of ministries, such as the General Treasury of Social Security, are changed. These are aspects on which we believe we are interested in reflecting. Another question that we are asked massively is that the use of masks should be generalized. We do not know whether there are enough yet, but it has been shown in other countries that masking is the simplest and most effective element in combating the spread of the epidemic. We should spread them massively. We call on the Government to improve these issues and to study the suggestions. We have been surprised by the ratios established by the Ministry of Health to move from one phase to another in the descalation, because they highlight some deficits. For example, in the province of Teruel, where we have only six ICU beds, we should have twenty to meet that ratio, and we only have 340 acute beds and we should put 500. The ministry's own ratios show the health deficits in unpopulated provinces like ours and many others. I think this should be an opportunity to help solve it. And in that desire to collaborate...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u45	Mr. Guitar, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u46	In this effort to collaborate, I would like to inform you that, for example, in our province we have managed the beginning of a pact for reconstruction, encouraged by the words of the President and the very pact that will be formed here tomorrow, in which all civil society will be able to contribute in a cross-cutting way to solving what it thinks is good and convenient for the province and the country. I believe that this is an example that should be taken and that, constructively, we should all be bringing from our territories what we believe is necessary for a new economic order or a new model of development that improves the situation in Spain as a whole. Alone, in general, we can do little. If we go together, we can do a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u47	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u48	Thank you, Madam President. President, ladies and gentlemen, the coming weeks are decisive and we are all aware of this in this House, as is the whole of Spanish citizenship. After months of effort, pain and confinement, we are finally bending the contagion curve. These weeks will mark a time before and a time after many things, and I think there is one that we should keep very much in mind at every moment: for the first time in our country's history 47 million Spaniards join us in an effort that has never been seen to protect our society, ourselves and those we want most; I would like to thank each of them for the sacrifice they are making. The pandemic has done us a lot of damage, but it has not weakened our values, but strengthened them. Responsibility, solidarity, commitment to others that millions of Spaniards have shown these weeks are the best of our hopes to build a better tomorrow. In recent months this country has suffered a lot and my thoughts are with the families of the victims and with the sick, of course, and also with the personnel who have put themselves on the front line to protect us; our gratitude to all of them is infinite. But it is not enough to thank - I said fifteen days ago -, it is not enough to congratulate them with one hand while with the other the farewell of those who came to help when it was most needed is signed. As political leaders, we have to learn lessons from this situation, and the first is that we need to strengthen public health, not weaken it; we need more health personnel, not fire those we have; more research, not less; more and better social services; we need more union, not more division. Ladies and gentlemen, the data we have been seeing in recent days is no longer just a hope, it is proof that so much effort is worth it, that we are winning the battle against the virus. But the pandemic hasn't happened, we've seen repuntes in other parts of the planet. In Hong Kong, Singapore, China are fighting a new outbreak in a city of several million inhabitants. In order to avoid situations like these, the Government calls for the expansion of the state of alarm. And you can say whatever you want, ladies and gentlemen, but without a state of alarm, confinement is not possible. It is something that advises the experience of other countries, which advise experts and common sense, it is something that all but you understand, Mr. Married. You say - and I quote you literally - that prolonging the state of alarm makes no sense. I would like to know what it is based on to make such a sharp statement and with such dangerous consequences, by the way. There are many voices that from science advise us to maintain social distance and be especially careful in the descalade. A couple of days ago she read an interview with the immunologist Margarita del Val, researcher at the Center for Molecular Biology and coordinator of the Global Health platform of the CSIC, which brings together more than 150 teams of researchers. Dr. Del Val will probably know something when she says that we are not yet at the end of the pandemic, and it seems opportune to hear it when she warns that if we are unwise a second wave can come immediately. It certainly speaks from wisdom and knowledge when it recalls that in Hong Kong the pandemic took only three weeks to come back and that in Singapore they have overlapped the first wave with the second. The opinion of the experts and scientists, the opinion of those who know about this is very clear. We are on the right track and this is not the time to abandon it. I would like to know which scientists you have consulted to say that it is no longer necessary. Is that another report from an Australian gentleman like the one you brought in 15 days ago that turned out to be false? [[Greetings.-Mr. García Eggea utters words that are not perceived]] I take it that you are aware of the serious consequences of frivolizing with this. You would be expected to support your decisions on solid foundations and on the advice of people who know about pandemics and public health. I know you have very fine skin, Mr Casado, but I don't think it's disrespectful to say that on a subject like this between your opinion and that of the experts we have the second. [[Rumors]] Could you please mention to us either you or the one behind you - who keeps talking while I am intervening - on which report or study you base to say that confinement no longer makes sense? [[Cacatua]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u50	If everything is summed up in that you have a palpit or in that your keen political instinct is told, I have to tell you that your background is not much to be trusted in the People's Party's opinion either. Look, I was telling you in the last plenary: you disqualified and insulted the health care workers and turned the health of the Madriders into a business. When the staff of the residences asked for more resources, their answer was: bark, then we ride. You said that the Military Emergency Union was a whim of the socialists that served nothing. And today all those people you despised are saving lives. And you try to hide the shame of what you said and what you did where you could. Two weeks ago we met in this very House, and in these two weeks you have done several things, all of them very revealing. First, you brought to this House that false report on which you relied much of your speech. Then, with great vehemence - as you do things, even when you do not know what you are talking about - he demanded that the Government apply a measure for the rest of the transporters; certainly, a measure that had already been taken forty-one days ago and that you had no idea. They have also continued to call for 47 million tests, which would involve more tests than the entire planet has done, which would take months to analyze and which would be valid for 24 hours. [[Rumors]] By the way, Mr Casado, after reading what we read this morning about tests and masks in the Community of Madrid, please stop making a fool of yourself. [[Applauds]] And they have ended the week by convening a mass event at the IFEMA, jumping all the rules of a confinement that 47 million Spaniards have been respecting with great sacrifice and effort for almost two months. So, how will anyone trust your judgment, Mr. Married? In February you said that the suspension of the Mobile was bad news and required the Government to hold. In March you and your environment called us everything because confinement - they said - was not rigid enough. And now he says that the state of alarm is useless or, which is the same, that everyone on the street and save whoever they can. They have been abusing the responsibility of others for weeks to become the most irresponsible opposition on the continent. 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. But this, this is the decisive moment and we must face all the Spaniards. For once - since he likes to look in the mirror so much - look in the mirror of history and in the mirror of the general interest, and not in the mirror of propaganda. You know it's not just about liquidating the state of alarm, it's much more than that, and I want to understand that when you throw yourself at this kind of assertions and positions it's because you have a viable alternative. It's what is expected of the opposition leader, it's his job. What is your alternative to the state of alarm? That same Monday they asked him up to four times in an interview and you weren't able to give an answer. The situation is serious, Mr Casado, your party leads the opposition and you cannot avoid the responsibility you have towards the Spanish. Citizens have the right to know what you propose as leader of the opposition. Are you going to assume in this House the responsibility of ending the barrier that is allowing us to defeat the pandemic? Will all Spaniards bear the responsibility for a recovery, as has happened in other countries? Will you explain to the self-employed that your proposal will stop receiving aid to deal with this situation? Are you going to tell the workers protected by ERTE that if you succeed you will lose your benefit? Are you going to explain to families that they have trouble reaching the end of the month that with their plan they can cut off the supply of electricity and water? Are you going to tell all the Spaniards, and especially those of the least affected provinces, that the restrictions on the movement of people are over? Are you in a position, Mr Casado, to ensure that mobility between provinces is not going to increase the number of cases? Because it's just the opposite of what all the experts say. Will you assume responsibility for the impact on public health of a hasty exit from the state of alarm as you are proposing? Is that the idea you have to end up in history books, so you want to be reflected? I think it is a huge mistake that you are trying to contaminate the political climate as the health situation improves, by the way, thanks to the responsibility of the citizens and the state of alarm that you want to liquidate now. It is a mistake and a irresponsibility to put so many weeks of effort in jeopardy. He has also said several times, and he has repeated it today, that he is not going to participate in what we are doing, that we are applying a radical agenda, and he uses that word, radical, to hide what he doesn't want to know, so don't worry, that I'm going to clarify it so that you understand it well. Radical for you is to protect victims of macho violence: that is why you did not support it when we brought it into this House. Radical for you is to ban dismissal for objective reasons by COVID-19, with the interruption of the calculation of the duration of the temporary contracts: you did not support it either. Radical for you is to give a retrievable paid leave for workers who do not provide essential services: you did not support it. Radical is to ban evictions of tenants for six months, to establish microcredits for tenants in vulnerable situations, to create a subsidy for household employees affected by this situation, to establish moratoriums on the payment of contributions to businesses and self-employed, or to ensure basic supplies of light and water during the state of alarm. None of this merited the support of the People's Party and of you, Mr. Married. Whatever it is to protect workers, families, young people and self-employed people seems to be a dangerous radicalism. But all these measures have a much simpler name - even if they don't like to hear it and much less pronounce it - it's called social justice, it's called equality, sharing effort, responsibility. And it's also called otherwise, it's called community. That is what we are, not a sum of isolated individuals, but a community of responsible and united citizens. These two months we have been able to prove it as never before and you should be up to the citizens, because, look - and I have also said this on several occasions - a leader can be expected to give something more than citizens, to be exemplary in all aspects, but he cannot be allowed to give less. Today there are 47 million Spaniards giving an example of responsibility, exactly the opposite of what you and your entire group are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, what is decided here today is whether we maintain the effort that is allowing us to overcome the greatest challenge we have faced or whether with our vote we cause an error of incalculable consequences. I know that there are parties and leaders in this Chamber who in recent years have neither supported the Government nor supported it and have been and are very harsh in their criticism; parties and leaders who, however, have understood that this is not an ideological or partisan issue, but rather to protect the public health of the country. It is no longer about one another, it is not about the Government and the opposition, one party or another, goes far beyond each of us and our legitimate interests and our ideological differences. We all in this House know what we are playing at this crucial moment. No one can say that he did not know the consequences of his vote, no one. And today, ladies and gentlemen, I ask only one thing from the Members of the People's Party: that they vote in conscience, with their responsibility for the public health of the Spaniards. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to do, as usual, is to thank you for the tone and direction of most of the speeches I have heard. I would like to begin this reply with some general principles and facts which I believe can be useful in ordering the debate and which I would like to see recorded in the Journal of Sessions. Firstly, a question of context that I have always taken up in my speeches and which I believe is important to stress again, and that is that COVID-19 is not just a problem in Spain. The pandemic has affected us a lot - that is obvious - just like five of the great Western economies like ours. This is the case in the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Italy. In particular, countries, which, as I have mentioned in some other public intervention, have greater trafficking in persons, which are international hubs as a result of our own productive sector. When one analyses the public debate that the various parliaments have, it can be said that all the countries of the world, and in particular the five mentioned, have faced the same problems, the same problems. See, Germany, for example, lost six million masks in Kenya and acquired many of them defective. Belgium acquired one hundred thousand defective masks and the Netherlands 600 000. France commissioned 8500 respirators to a consortium of national companies that were not suitable for the resuscitation of patients of COVID-19. The United Kingdom had to admit that 3.5 million acquired tests were unreliable and therefore could not be used and returned up to 100,000 defective coats. There are, in short, hundreds of examples of incidents that have occurred around the world. They say: Europe is late. Yes, Europe came late and the West too. Spain, indeed, along with Europe was late, but it acted earlier, ladies and gentlemen, and as a result of that earlier action, I think we are in good condition to start the exit strategy, which is what we have called the de-escalation strategy. Our response indicators in the evolution of the pandemic so certify and this is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a subjective question. We were the first European country to declare the state of alarm both because of the number of contagions and because of the number of deaths at the time of the declaration of that state of alarm. And if some of you, those who are most critical of the government's action, naturalize a look around the incidences that I have told you by countries, you will undoubtedly see that Spain has given an effective response. Today, for example, the data from Farmaindustria - nothing suspicious of being aligned with the Government of Spain - revealed that Spain is the first country in Europe and the fourth country in the world in clinical trials to combat COVID-19. This was the first consideration I wanted to make. The second consideration is to indicate to them the importance, logically, of control, of coordination between institutions, as the Government guarantees for this descalation, to which I referred in my first intervention. The decisive contribution of the state of alarm offers the Spanish maximum peace of mind. Here it has been said by some interveners that we must try to avoid any kind of uncertainty, of concern. I share that, and I therefore believe that the state of alarm offers this maximum peace of mind to all citizens, who live where they live. And it also has a deep root, ladies and gentlemen. Here we have also made reference to this by some intervener, it is no coincidence. Do not see in their application what does not exist. Do not see in the application of the state of alarm what does not exist in a progressive government like ours. So let me remind you of something, in my opinion, important. Reference has also been made to this by some interveners. In 1976, a chemical plant was set on fire in a town north of Milan, Seveso. There was a leak of toxic gas, which caused a wave of fear in northern Italy and forced the Italian government then to implement an emergency plan with Europe, which was alert to this incidence. Two years later, when the Spanish Constitution was being drafted in this same Congress of Deputies, the debate about the state of alarm came. They may not know, but Italian Lombardy is at the origin of the state of alarm in our Constitution. This is the thesis that represents the spirit of this fourth extension of the state of alarm that the Government is proposing to its lords, the same as that of the previous ones: saving lives and promoting public health. That was then said, ladies and gentlemen, by one of those Members. He said the following: With the figure of the state of alarm we are basically contemplating, rather than situations of political and social conflict, catastrophic events - I stress what the deputy then said - natural or non-natural. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, for example, the case of a virus such as the one we are dealing with, which does not understand either territories or administrative lines or ideological issues. The Member then went on to say the following - I open quotes -: Let us think of a tragically close example as is Seveso's toxic gas exhaust, which all his lordships know. Think, I say today, of the COVID-19 that has come to Spain and to the whole of Europe from outside our country. He concluded that same Member by saying the following - I open quotes -: It necessarily involves the mobilization of special actions by the State. I add: quarantine declaration in epidemic situations for circulation limitations, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, these words do not correspond to any dangerous red of the Socialist Parliamentary Group or of the former Communist Party. It was Gabriel Cisneros who uttered these words in this rostrum. This was expressed as it was written just as much and nothing less than the Constitution - we speak of June 1978 - and they were words addressed to another father of the Constitution, this yes of communist and later socialist origin, Jordi Solé Tura. The debate was not whether or not to apply the state of alarm, - eye!-, but whether the state of alarm was felt when the state of emergency already existed. There were ladies and gentlemen who called for the removal of the state of alarm from the constitutional debate, something that is happening again by some parliamentary groups in this House. In conclusion, what I want to say to you with this, ladies and gentlemen, is that the state of alarm is part of our Constitution; do not forget it, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group. Let's not lose respect for the virus. I know that you do not pretend with your political position to lose respect for the virus, but neither can you spell out our common standards. Words are important, ladies and gentlemen. The law is important in democracy. Perhaps there are those who have not learned anything from this health emergency - in the light of some of the interventions I have heard this morning, it is clear that this is the case - but let me tell you that prudence and caution are the best guide to take care of the Spaniards in this transition to normality. I told them that I would not go into any reproach and I will do so, but I will put them in front of the mirror, ladies and gentlemen, so that they are sure of whether they recognize each other, because they are in time to do so today in their vote. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, for me political parties that aspire to govern Spain and that in a situation like this they abstain is as if they voted not. Ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, I ask you for caution and caution. There cannot be an autonomous or individual race for decontainment as we have not allowed it to be in confinement. The method of the successive weekly steps that we have been developing in the fulfilment of health objectives in the zero phase, with the reliefs, as well as with the different stages of descalation that I outlined in my first intervention, allows us to take steps on safety in the face of a virus that we do not yet know enough, as has been said here by some Member. I think it's the best road map because it's based on experience and not experiments. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that this road map, this descalation, this transition, has been endorsed by most epidemiologists and experts; even leading epidemiologists of the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia have supported these descalation plans, with which some scientific and expert rigour will have. To act in this way in the management since we declared the state of alarm last 14 March, I believe that it has allowed us, in the face of so much noise of all kinds, to send a signal of maximum clarity to the whole of the Spanish citizenship, of maximum pedagogy and also of maximum coherence in our actions. And I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this has not been easy because, as has been said here and we all know, we do not have a certain road map when we are facing what we are facing, not only in Spain but on the whole continent and the planet. But to take the decision of general confinement of all Spaniards - I have defended it from this rostrum on many occasions - has benefited all the autonomous communities, has benefited all citizens live where they live. Therefore, do not seek an individualized response in the results of this first stage. I am surprised on many occasions that the Government of Spain is criticized and, on the other hand, depending on which political affiliation is abstracted from that widespread criticism of autonomous governments or all governments. I do not think we should look for an individualized response in the results of this first stage in which we have clearly exceeded the peak and clearly doubled the curve. I believe that it has been the result of concerted action by the administrations, in short, together; we enter together, we will go out together, that is philosophy, and thanks to it we have gone from 35% of contagion before the state of alarm was decreed to 0,31 % recorded today. No territory would have succeeded alone, ladies and gentlemen, no territory would have succeeded alone; it was thanks to the effort of the whole, because interdependence, to which I have made reference on some other occasion every time I have come to call for the extension of the state of alarm, has played a fundamental role. Fourthly, the importance of conveying hope to all citizens as public representatives of all of them. There is no doubt that there is a positive evolution of the damage. That is why the citizens expect from us a great agreement for the social and economic reconstruction of our country in the autonomies and in the municipalities. I proposed not only these agreements at state level from here for fifteen days, but I said, because I believe it, that these agreements could be spread at the autonomous and local level. Unfortunately they have counted with contempt, in this case the main opposition party where they govern, but in any case I again extend my hand to all political forces so that we can make it possible at the state level. We have an entire legislature ahead of us, ladies and gentlemen, to develop the agreements that we can conclude. The government took office in mid-January, after five electoral processes in 2019 and two general elections won by the Socialist Party for wide difference over the second and, therefore, it plays legislature and focus on the best for Spain, which is political stability, the long look and address the reconstruction and social and economic recovery of the whole country. And fifthly, to make it possible, we have to go back to unity. We must depoliticize the emergency, ladies and gentlemen; perhaps this could be one of the great messages that we have moved from this House; depoliticize the emergency, as happens, for example, in other countries in our environment. The will of the opposition in these countries is unequivocally unity. I'll be brief, I'll give only two examples for those who want to listen to me. Names may sound even surprising. In Italy there is a leader who has said the following: It is not the time for political controversy, it is the time to move and work together, Silvio Berlusconi. In the United Kingdom, the new Labour leader, on the other end, says: We can't just stand up for opposition, I'm not going to stand up for so many politicians, I'm going to fully support the government's decision to extend the confinement. Similar statements can be found in more countries such as Germany, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Estonia, Lithuania, Belgium, Denmark or France. By the way, Mr Casado, the Senate approved the extension until 4 July - I think I remember - by the majority of political forces, including the French People's Party, the National Front and so many others. I say this more than anything because when I want to blame or criticize the government, it is based on certain facts. It is beginning to be a usual tonic in your criticisms, Mr. Married, not to stick to reality. I could go on to a total of more than 20 countries in Europe, all of them alarmed or equipped with a tool similar to ours, ladies and gentlemen. Spain cannot be outside that consensus. Not only is the Government being mercilessly attacked, as we are seeing from the beginning of the crisis and from the beginning of the state of alarm, but part of the opposition in Spain wants to go a step further in today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, and wants even to suppress the state of alarm in circumstances as complex as those we are living in. Therefore, I turn to them: look, you can criticize what you want, you can criticize me, I don't care, but don't harm the Spaniards. They vote in favour of the state of alarm because the first thing is to save lives, protect public health and not the partisan interests that some from this rostrum have expressed with their unjust criticisms of the Government. There are health, civil and social reasons for this, as I explained in depth in my first intervention. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us depolicate this health emergency, as the vast majority of Spaniards expect of us and ourselves, by voting for those who vote in the electoral process. The adversary is not the political rivals nor the weapon is the virus; the adversary is the coronervirus and the weapon to defeat it is the political unity of institutions and parliamentary forces present in this House. The exit, the descalation towards the new normality and the final victory against the virus, I think you must take into account everything that has happened, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I insist; in the management of this pandemic there are no absolute correcties, but they do not make the absolute error by raising the state of alarm. Mr. Married, the truth is that if we could talk more it would be better, but it doesn't seem like we're getting along, either, does it? As much as you and I talk, we don't seem to get along. I have heard you repeat again and again that the Government has no real will to agree, that this is all an artifact. I'll give you a specific example, Your Honor. Two weeks ago, the Minister of Justice - he is not here - began contacts with all the autonomous communities to seek a solution to the collapse of justice caused by the COVID-19. He shared the situation with the justice advisers of all the autonomous communities, including those of the People's Party, and listened to his proposals. He incorporated several of the suggestions of the members of the People's Party, for example, one of them, Mr Enrique López, Councillor for the Interior and Justice of the Community of Madrid. He then contacted all the spokespersons of justice of all parliamentary groups, including, of course, the spokesman of the People's Party, and explained to them the draft royal decree in full detail and agreed with all the spokespersons. [[A Member of Parliament: Lie!]] Can you be more collaborative, more dialogueal? I don't think so. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr. García Aegean, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u54	This was the consensus that had been forged with the justice advisers of all the autonomous governments, with the spokesmen of virtually all parliamentary groups in this House, including the People's Party. Then, Mr. Married came and said no, that this decree could not be approved. What's the matter, Mr. Married? You? I don't want to believe it, Mr. Married. Let me tell you what I think: you, Mr. Married, are afraid of the agreement. Yes, he is afraid of the agreement because he believes it helps the Government; there is no more. But it is not true, with the agreement it would help the Spaniards and, if I hurry, it would help yourself, because you will only be able to re-govern when a majority of Spaniards perceive what they do not perceive today in the main opposition party; that they are a moderate, prudent party with State responsibility, which grabs their shoulders when we are living the most unprecedented and complex situation of the forty-six years of democracy in our country. I am aware, Mr Casado, that I do not believe that there is an ultra-right movement in Spanish society that wants a break in coexistence. It is a very noisy movement because the caceroladas are very noisy. But don't take them, Mr. Casado, applaud the toilets and the Spaniards. This is a very minority movement. Free yourself, Mr. Married. I will again reach out to you once and a thousand times, because it is true that we are emerging from the health emergency, but we have the economic and social emergency resulting from the spread of the virus throughout the world, not only in Spain, but throughout the planet. But, look, remember that Spain also needs us because, sometimes, in its idea of Spain as you forget about three quarters of the Spaniards who have not voted for you. We are the party that has won the elections five times over the past year, have the respect that we have for you, Mr. Married. And, finally, the People's Party has not been proposing - as you say - an economic shock plan for weeks; the PP has been calling for a shock plan for weeks, but I am sure that you know - I have repeated this in my speech - that the Government has mobilised EUR 139 billion to stop the destruction of jobs, to stop the closure of businesses, to cover the incomes of 7,162,000 workers, i.e. one third of the working population, and to protect the most vulnerable households. As reflected in the 2020 Stability Programme, there are 28 403 million euros in different spending policies - or investment policies, I prefer to say - including 17 894 million euros for four million workers in ERTE, which they are charging - unlike what you said yesterday, Mr Casado, they are charging - and including termination benefits for 1.4 million self-employed workers, among other measures. They are also EUR 6119 million in fiscal stimulus measures, mainly through the suspension of social security contributions and EUR 104 billion in guarantees, guarantees and risk cover. Never had any Government, ladies and gentlemen, made a mobilization of public resources such as the one being made by this Government. And as far as autonomous quotas are concerned, all those who receive the cessation benefit are exempt from the payment of the quota, all of them. But, look, it is not the government, Mr Casado, that pays the ERTE; it is the public coffers with the taxes of all the Spaniards. And that needs consistency in any proposal, consistency, which is what is missing in many of his interventions; not only a real and not fictitious foundation, but consistency and coherence. You ask to lower taxes, increase spending - because any figure seems insufficient to you - and lower the deficit. It seems to me lawful, Your Honor, that you ask to lower taxes, increase spending and reduce the deficit. Now they ask for everything at the same time, without consistency. Do you know what would happen if we now proceed, for example, to a general tax rebate, as you propose? That we would punish, precisely, those who have less, the most vulnerable. And, as the Spaniards already know, these measures would be accompanied by massive cuts, which is actually what you seem to want. Join the agreement, Mr. Casado, be responsible, support the extension of the state of alarm. The Spaniards have given him a parliamentary representation of 89 deputies; use that representation to join the reconstruction of the country, as the opposition in our environment does. I said this in my first speech; we are faced with a far-reaching decision that will mark the parliamentary groups in this vote for a long time. We are deciding what we want, what exit we want: either we want a 'break rows' abruptly raising the state of alarm or we want a progression on that path towards the new normality. We want and will decide with our vote whether we want unity or the'save who can', to which the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group referred earlier. And it is true, Mr. Married, that, after listening to Mr. Abascal, do you really want to look like Mr. Abascal in your political speech? Is the right really the only thing that can offer the whole of Spanish citizenship at this critical moment in our history? Mr. Abascal, I have a difficulty with you, and it is very difficult to replicate you because it is impossible to understand you. Spain is one thing and Mr Abascal is another, and that has become clear. [[Applauds]] You defend the LGTBI collective, Mr Abascal, and I remind you that when same-sex marriage has been recognized, when civil rights and freedoms have been extended, there has been progressive governments throughout the history of our democracy. You belonged to a political party - before forging and creating yours - that when we passed, for example, the Law on same-sex marriage, what you did was to appeal to the Constitutional Court. Mr. Abascal, all I'm saying are three words: abandon hatred, believe me, abandon hatred. If you do, I guarantee you a new world will open up in front of you. Moreover, Mr Abascal, the truth is that, seeing social media a little today, your reference to Che Guevara, even Paracuellos, has been quite curious. What about the pandemic, Mr. Abascal? I understand that you have to resort to such arguments because Mr. Married has left you virtually without political space. But, finally, I believe, Mr Abascal, that if you end up with that speech of hatred that every time you come up to this rostrum simply prophesies us above all to the political parties that we form this coalition, it will do Spain good and it will do even itself good. Take it as a board with no interest beyond the politician. I would like to thank Mr Asens very much for the tone and also for some of the issues he has commented on and which I logically share. We are talking about nothing but protecting public health and protecting the lives of Spaniards living where they live, and that is the only ideology. On many occasions, we listen to the far right or we hear the People's Party say that the progressive government is doing what it is doing is using the state of alarm to not know what things, when in truth the only ideology that moves us to propose again the state of alarm is what you have said: saving lives, extreme lives, Catalan lives, Basque lives, Andalusian lives, canarian lives, Galician lives, left lives, right lives, independent nationalist lives; lives, in short, of compatriots. That is why we have also called, Your Honor, for an extension of the state of alarm. And indeed, I agree with you that this is not an issue that hides behind a spurious interest on the part of a government in which, by the way, every time I have come to this rostrum I have always defended the autonomous state. I have never defended the re-centralisation of any of the competences. On the contrary, I have insisted every time I have come up here, to this rostrum, when the opposition has criticized this Government, for example, not having approved the state of alarm a couple of days earlier, among other issues, because one of the things that has always encouraged us is to trust logically in the good doing of the Autonomous Communities in the management of health. That is why, Your Honor, of course there is no twisted use of centralism. It is a tool that we need right now, as I said in my first intervention, to limit mobility for a few weeks and it is the means to prevent the virus from moving unchecked between provinces, as we have seen in recent weeks. It is, in short, a shield against the spread of the epidemic. Nor, logically, does it have anything to do with limiting freedoms, as the opposition is telling us. All freedoms - I insist - are intact, all the rights of the Constitution are intact and are fully protected by laws, the courts and the media. By the way, I do not know very well, Mr Abascal and Mr Casado, who you refer to when you talk about the media on the salary of the Government of Spain. You said, Mr. Married, here there is no free press in our country. Please go up to this rostrum and tell us which media are not independent. Say so, because what you are doing, Mr. Married, is copying the speech of the far right even with regard to freedom of the press. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] You are free to use your turn to debate what you want, but since you are accusing the media of not being independent, the only thing I ask of Mr. Married is to come up here and say which media are not independent, simply. I ask you to say this because these accusations, at least, Your Honor, deserve some nuance if at best they have occurred in the splendour of your intervention; an accusation - in my opinion undeserved - to the media, which I do claim to be independent, say what they say and defend editorially what they defend. Mr. Rufián, you said less than a month ago that we would stop the country or that there would be no country to lift. You said that less than a month ago. The country doesn't have to stand still anymore, but it has to start to move back little by little. We must continue to restrict the movement and that is why we are calling for a further extension of the state of alarm. You speak to us of horizontality, you speak to us of co-responsibility, and I, Your Honor, have never denied it; I have never denied that co-responsibility and that horizontality. Really, I've never denied it. Look at what's going on outside of Spain. What are the constitutional instruments that most European governments use? They are using figures similar to those we are using in Spain, because obviously, even if there is an authority - you then put the adjective you want - coordinated, etc., etc., there has to be a Department of Health, a Minister of Health or Minister of Health who in the end is the pilot, together with the whole of the autonomous communities, the descalade. That's what we call authority, Your Honor. We have agreed with all the autonomous communities the markers of the integral panel that will evaluate the phase of the different territories. We have said to the Autonomous Communities: this is our proposal, the province; but we have also said: if you consider it to be another territorial unit, we are open to it. The only thing we have asked is, ladies and gentlemen, to take into account not only the strategic and health capacities but also the economic unity and mobility of citizens. Citizens know the administrative borders of the province, they do not know the borders, for example, of a health area. Do you know them, Mr. Rufián? I therefore believe that we are making a reasonable proposal. I am the President of the Government of Spain. There is already an administrative unit, which are the provinces. I stick to them, because in addition the experts are telling us that it is the best unit of action to drive the descalade, but we logically open ourselves to pose what you consider appropriate. That's why we talked about the descalation was going to be asymmetric, it was going to be gradual, it was going to be coordinated and it was going to be adaptable. Finally, I believe, Your Honor, that the Government can be criticized, and a great deal, for this. I am told by some intervener: Mr Sánchez does not recognize any error. Every time I come up to this rostrum they ask me - and they always ask me -: will you recognize mistakes? Of course I recognize the mistakes! All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, But, Your Honor, I don't think it's fair to criticize the government for everything either. The Government of Spain is talking to the autonomous communities. How many meetings does the Minister of Health hold, held for almost eight weeks with the health advisers of the various autonomous governments? Almost 30 if I don't miss the numbers. I can be told: the President of the Government, in the video conferences of presidents every Sunday, could do better. I certainly do, Your Honor, but let us recognize that this is the government that has launched these conferences of presidents: eight in eight weeks; six in sixteen years and eight in eight weeks! You can say: Can you do better? There is no doubt that they can be done better; I am convinced that they can be done better. We are subscribing, and precisely learning, to that dynamic of collaboration, coordination and cooperation, to which I referred earlier, but it cannot be said, Your Honor, that the Government of Spain imposes, because that is unfair. We do not impose, Your Honor. All the measures we have put in place at the institutional level of phase de-escalation have had a prior dialogue with all the autonomous governments. Look, I often miss those same autonomous governments who criticize the Government of Spain in the lack of dialogue with their municipalities. How many of the autonomous governments are interacting with their municipalities, have systematic meetings as we have from the Government of Spain, for example, with the autonomous communities or with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces? I'd like to know, because I'm convinced there aren't so many. Therefore, with all humility, I say to you, Your Honor, that of course we will be able to improve, and much, in coordination, in the dialogue and that I am prepared to accept those mistakes, that responsibility, but it cannot be said that the Government of Spain is not in dialogue with the autonomous governments. You can't say that because I think it's missing the truth. So, co-responsibility, all of it. In fact, an amendment has been tabled here by a parliamentary group, in this case the Basque Nationalist Party, which we are going to accept and which precisely reinforces that idea of co-responsibility, co-decision and co-governance. It can be said, as is being interpreted in some conservative media, of conservative editorial lines, which the Government of Spain does out of necessity. Well, out of necessity or conviction, but we're going to do it and we're going to go through this stage of descalation precisely with those attributes. And horizontality, Your Honor, of course I believe that the Spanish Government is doing so; it is a different matter, perhaps, for you to find it insufficient. You say that the Republican Left vote with VOX does not mean that you have the same position as VOX. I share that, but I do not blame the Government or the parliamentary groups that support this Government for having parliamentary groups support the extension of the state of alarm because we have reached the agreement; what is also good for you is good for the rest of the parliamentary groups, Your Honor. Therefore, this government, Mr Rufián, always listens and, in fact, is the approach we are going to take. I have told you from this rostrum on many occasions, although today may not have been the day, but I always thank you for your tone and your constructive contributions to the debate and to this critical moment in our country. Mrs Borràs, I believe that in my first speech I was very clear, as I was last Sunday at the Conference of Presidents. As I said before to Mr Rufián, the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain will jointly govern the descalade. I have previously forgotten to comment on a fact to Mr Rufián, but, look at 83 % of the proposals, 83 % of the proposals sent to us by the Autonomous Communities for the various stages of the descalation are contained in the plan of descalation of the Government of Spain, 83 %. You may say it is insufficient, but it is 83 %. We have made an exercise in dialogue, listening and integrating these proposals more than obvious, and here are the figures. The procedure chosen by the Government I believe favours communication, agreement and comprehensive and coordinated management. It may be questioned that the Spanish Government cannot have the last word in the decision, well, but be sure, on the whole way to make that decision we do it with the most objective parameters possible, with parameters that experts and scientists have also recommended to us; moreover, we leave bilateral negotiating thresholds with each of the autonomous communities. Yesterday, the Minister of Health already had a bilateral negotiation with three autonomous governments; today, it seems to me that there will be another five and tomorrow there will be another five. We're going to have a bilateral negotiation with each and every one of the autonomous governments, Your Honor. I understand that the Government of Spain can be criticized, and a lot, but what else can we really do? You will indeed demand that we resign from our responsibilities and that it be the Government of Catalonia that leads it alone and exclusively, but if we were faced with a completely different challenge to the virus, I would have no problem, Your Honor, but the virus has shown that it does not obey or address any administrative barrier, any ideological issue or any political project. [[Mrs Borràs Castanyer: Indeed]] And precisely we were forced to approve the state of alarm because it had overflowed all over the country, where the citizen lived, this pandemic. Therefore, do not want to see grievances where there are no grievances, it is that there are no grievances on this issue, Mrs Borràs, really, it is that there are no grievances. I understand that you may have to nail the squalor to your sardine, that you have to say that the Spanish Government is not doing things right and that an independent Catalonia would make them phenomenal, but it is not, Your Honor, that there are no political or territorial grievances on this issue. We have only one purpose, which is to defend public health and save lives and, believe me, Your Honor, with the state of alarm and with the confinement we have saved many lives, and I do not say that, say national and international epidemiological centers. You accept that in emergency situations you need a coordinating command, that you eventually make general decisions, as we have taken. Precisely, in order for us to have a symmetrical descalation, we have logically had to take measures of generalized confinement throughout the country, without that implying interference or contempt for the Catalan self-government, which does not have it, Your Honor. I have deep respect for Catalonia's self-government, perhaps much more than some leaders of its political party. I ask you, Mrs Borràs, as I ask all those who have announced that they will vote negatively, to reconsider your vote, I really ask you, from the heart. The no to the state of alarm is not now an option, it is not now an option. We must continue to restrict mobility, we must continue to restrict freedom of movement. I don't put your case; let's put the case of a land that Mr. Aegean knows well, Murcia. When I meet with the president of Murcia and talk to him, one of the complaints he has is: president, that the Madriders do not make use of their second residence when they come to Murcia. In fact, look, there have been mayors of Murcia who have done what has been to announce the blockade of the arrival of Madridns at their second residences. How can I guarantee Mr. López Miras that there will be no Madrid transit and mobility to Murcia? There isn't, Your Honor. When we reach an equal, practically homogeneous, non-heterogeneous epidemiological situation throughout the national territory, I will have no problem. Do you really think I have an interest in keeping the state of alarm? Do you really think I have a political interest? I don't have any. The only interest the Government has is to save lives and guarantee public health, that is the only one, and that is not why we are disregarding the Catalan self-government or the self-government of Murcia or the self-government of Madrid. By the way, what is said today in the media is that they have had to cancel the meeting of the Governing Council in the Community of Madrid for alleged discrepancies between the two parties that form the coalition as to whether Madrid has to move to phase 1 or not. Can you imagine that situation? If the Government of Spain can also order and give security to each of the citizens of each of the autonomous communities, I think it will be in the general interest, right? Without a state of alarm, Your Honor, I remind you, the ban on mobility between provinces and between autonomous communities will disappear. I would like to remind you that President Torra was one of the first to tell me to limit interprovincial mobility. If interprovincial mobility is limited, what is being said logically is that we have to use the state of alarm. The Government of the Generalitat does not have legal instruments to close Barcelona, it does not have them. [[Mrs Borràs Castanyer makes affirmative gestures]] No, you don't, Your Honor, let's not miss the truth. I'm not saying you want to cheat, but let's not miss the truth. There are no legal instruments on the part of the Generalitat de Catalunya to close Barcelona, there are no legal instruments. They would normally have to reopen railway lines and everything that President Torra said had to be confined, hibernated and closed. I insist, I think you vote not knowing that it will come out yes. [[Denials by Mrs Borràs Castanyer]] If not, in the end, the qualification would be another, Your Honor. Mr Errejón, I thank you for your support. I have said this before, Your Honor, the state of alarm is not a political project of a progressive government, it is not, believe me, it is not. In fact, it has been criticized here by the opposition on some occasions that we spent seven hours talking in the Council of Ministers on the day we declared the state of alarm on 14 March. Why did we do it? Because we were line-by-line looking at each of the fundamental aspects of the state of alarm to safeguard all constitutional freedoms and rights, but also to consider how we could deal with an unprecedented pandemic in the world and consequently in Spain, to ponder all those rights and freedoms to safeguard those who were in question, which were public health and the lives of the Spaniards. That is what we have done, rightly or wrongly, as you want to value and calibrate it, but certainly with that spirit and not another. Therefore - the Minister of Transport has said on some occasion in a way, I think, quite eloquent - the state of alarm is not a political project, it is a necessity and it is a protection. It is a necessity because it is indeed the only constitutional instrument we have to be able to limit the right of assembly and mobility and it is amparo. I do not say that, the Secretary General of the Workers' Commissions has said that he has said: jokes, the just. Because ERTE or termination benefits to self-employed people are produced why? Because the Spanish Government has taken a drastic decision to close business and, therefore, because of a cause of force majeure which inevitably carries with it a series of economic and social policy measures which this Government has put in place. Moreover, we are now talking with the social partners to see how we can accompany this whole process of descalation, of transition to normality with the working, economic and business realities of many groups, such as the tourism sector - as Mr Quevedo said earlier - or of many other sectors: the hospitality sector, the catering sector or the automotive sector. Of course, Your Honor, we empathize with your cause, but if the cause of force majeure disappears, what happens the next day? The next day it happens that all economic activities have to go back to normal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I can empathize - not for you, Mr Errejón - with what is said that the Spanish Government has to look for other formulas, but, I insist, until we have a similar epidemiological situation throughout the territory, we cannot dispense with the only instrument that we have and that we know that, to be sure, it works to end the pandemic, which is the control of freedom of movement, and freedom of movement is recognized in Article 116 of our Constitution through the state of alarm as to its limitation, and in the Organic Law of 1981. Point and end, ladies and gentlemen, there is no more. The Government of Spain is accused of saying that there is no plan B. In this situation, right now, with this pandemic, are we really going to start seeing other experiments? Man, let's be clear about the experience we've accumulated over these weeks and put an end to this wave of the COVID-19 that invaded us earlier this year. And then, in fact, the Spanish Government will be open to govern this new reality in a completely different way, but, I insist, I think it is very important to be aware that we are facing an absolutely unprecedented situation and that we cannot underestimate the risk involved. I agree with you, Mr Errejón, on the issues of ecological transition, reconstruction and conciliation. Indeed, in the stages of descalation we have given some alternatives that, logically, will provide the educational system - without having to be the educational system, let's say, the one that should respond to this - but I also have to tell you that through the Ministry of Labour some measures have been put in place in favor of conciliation and that we are in discussions with the municipalities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to see how we can articulate that demand for conciliation to which you referred earlier. Mr Errejón, I very much appreciate your support for the extension of the state of alarm. Mr Baldoví, I also thank you very much for your support, with the constructive criticism you have expressed, but I would like to make a number of points. Firstly, in relation to tax havens and dividends, the liquidity guarantee lines through the ICO already state from the outset that such lines are not permitted for companies located in tax havens or sharing dividends. I want you to know this because you have suddenly skipped this debate, but this is a commitment that the Spanish Government has expressed black on white in its royal decrees-laws from the very beginning. That is, it is not a new decision that we have brought, but, on the contrary, we launched it from the first minute with these ICO lines. As for the agreement on the surplus of the municipalities, we are in talks with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to see exactly how we can take care of that surplus. I believe that you too, Mr Baldoví, will appreciate the announcement that we have made that public works can be re-opened, which was one of the measures proposed by the municipalities and also by autonomous governments. I would like to thank Mr Rego for his constructive attitude. As far as the issue of autonomous state is concerned, I think I have already answered earlier. It is more than sixty meetings that we have had with the autonomous governments. Please note, last Monday, two days ago, there were three meetings: the first of the Minister of Health with the Health Councillors to complete this bilateral dialogue from which the descalation will be assessed. There was a second meeting of the Minister of Transport with the transport advisers of the autonomous communities to start talking about how we are going to finance the deficit, among other issues, of public transport. And, thirdly, there was another meeting of the Minister of Finance with the Councillors of Economy and Finance of the Autonomous Communities to explain and see what criteria will be followed to allocate this extraordinary non-refundable fund of 16 billion euros that the Government of Spain has approved in the Council of Ministers. These are three of the more than sixty meetings that we have had with all the autonomous communities since the beginning of this crisis, eight conferences of presidents held so far by my person and - I insist - a bilateral negotiation that we will have from the Government of Spain with all the autonomous communities. Many things can be criticized, Mr Rego - I do not say no, and you are probably right - and it is true that we have had previous governments that have practiced the roller more, that have imposed their criteria, but, I insist, we are opening up that cooperative and collaborative culture with the autonomous communities. I am sure that we can do much better; I am convinced that we can do much better, but this Government cannot be denied the willingness to share those decisions with all the administrations. What we are not going to do is give up our powers when the citizens know that it is essential that the Spanish Government coordinate a challenge that goes beyond territorial units, policies and administrative ones. I have commented to you before that, indeed, as regards the approach you made to the parishes, the councils in Galicia - this was an element that was also raised by President Feijóo and by President Barbón, of the Principality of Asturias - the decree itself establishes margins by which the autonomous communities can establish a maximum of more than 5000 inhabitants. In fact, the Principality of Asturias, through the Asturian Federation of Councils, extended this consultation to the Delegation of Government, which suggested that, in fact, its parishes did not conform to this limit of 5000 inhabitants and that they were allowed freedom of movement with municipalities of more than 5000, 6000 inhabitants. We therefore take your request into account, but this is an issue already covered by the decree and I therefore do not see any criticism of it. I thank Mrs Arrimadas for the tone, the criticisms, and also for the support she is giving to the Government in this crisis. I believe that you have shown that with ten seats you can be much more relevant in this House than with eighty-eight seats when you want to be useful, and in that regard I thank you for your position. But let us also be clear and frank: Your Honor, you know as well as I that it is very easy to criticize the Government of Spain and all the governments in the terms in which it has done so. He also knows, like me, that the constant call that this Government is making is that of unity, that of collaboration between administrations, without rest. We have tried to follow three rules, sometimes more accurately than others. Reytero: Do not argue, seek unity and listen, because territorial contact has been and continues to be constant. Without that contact, Your Honor, without that listening, without that coordination, we would never have come this far; and that co-governance in descalation is indispensable to achieve it. The contagions - we have said on many occasions - are not avoided with polemics; the virus is not doubled with division; no sick person is cured with insults. That is my way of understanding politics and I am grateful for your support for the extension decree. That is why, for example, we have agreed to adapt the social and economic reconstruction pact format to a parliamentary committee, in order to achieve the maximum support of the parliamentary groups. That is why he also endorsed the demands of some autonomous governments, in which you share government responsibilities on the large industry, on essential sectors, on the demands of self-employed people, on compatibility of the termination benefit with another type of benefit. I insist, for example, yesterday, that the cultural sector was recognized for the first time - and in the Artist's Statute this claim came - as an extraordinary benefit for unemployment. Also claims in the rural area. We have also responded to the request for resources from the Autonomous Communities, with the approval of this special non-refundable fund of 16 billion euros and whose resources were explained to the Autonomous Communities at the Eighth Conference of Presidents of Government. Now that we have overcome the worst moments of urgency and agony, we can deepen coordination and improve co-governance. We have, Your Honor, as I said before, almost four years of parliamentary office ahead of us to rebuild the country socially and economically, and I hope we can count on your contribution. You have also suggested that the Spanish Government must, in fact, start thinking about formulas for the governability of this situation other than the state of alarm. We have them in mind, Your Honor, but I believe that the debate can now be no other than that of the state of alarm because, indeed, we need to restrict mobility and that has only one instrument, which is Article 116 of our Constitution. Mr Esteban, believe me that I understand many of your remarks, I do so from the understanding of your position as spokesman for a political force that governs in a territory, which is Euskadi, we also do so with you in Euskadi; just as I understand many of the reflections and contributions that I hear from other leaders and autonomous representatives, with whom I also speak. Now, I only ask you to understand mine, I only ask you to understand mine. I tell you because sometimes - allow me this license - I miss the same degree of understanding towards my position. Finally, there are many people who work tirelessly to provide ideas, opinions, suggestions from the territorial sphere, which, of course, is from where the local reality is best known - that I do not discuss -. There are 83% of the proposals made that have been incorporated into the de-escalation plan, the 23 meetings that I have said that the Minister of Health has held so far with the representatives of the autonomous communities, the conferences of presidents and an endless number of contacts of all kinds that I know you hold and your party with different representatives of the Government of Spain. We will agree, Mr Esteban, that someone should look after the interterritorial and supraterritorial aspects of the measures we take. I only ask you to empathize with this need and with this urgency that we have from the Spanish Government. Someone must take care of the inter-territorial and supra-territorial aspects of the measures we take. Because, let us be fair, if we suspect the capacity of the State to respond effectively to the local, we should also suspect the capacity of the local to make proposals that are valid beyond its management territories. That is why I do not think that working from mutual suspicion is precisely what this crisis requires. I believe that it is quite the opposite that the construction of a principle of co-governance, of a difficult balance between territorial and more state interests, must be based on that mutual trust. And that is the centre of the question, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, that is the question. We need to act at all levels and at all scales and, in addition, to do so with a demand for speed that is difficult to combine with constant correctness. We need to address very specific circumstances, while maintaining a common direction. That is not an option taken by the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an option of the Government, it is an imposition of the virus, which we are facing. Those who today believe us moved by a dark centralizing pleasure - of which, I repeat, this Government has no interest - would be the first to accuse us of the chaos, the unforeseeability, the abandonment of functions if at some point there was a resurgence of the pandemic for lack of coordination; something that, unfortunately, could well happen in a country as varied but as interconnected from the point of view of communications as ours is. Therefore, it is a risk that we cannot forget because we must not lose respect for the virus. Look, Mr. Esteban, in Euskadi, how did the infection, the infection, occur? In a wake. A vigil in which people from La Rioja and Navarra - but mainly from La Rioja - moved to Vitoria and vice versa. Therefore, if we do not have that supra-territorial capacity to deal with the pandemic, Your Honor, we will hardly be able to respond to it as effectively as possible. In any case, we are prepared, of course, to walk together, to co-exist, to co-rule; we are ready - and indeed the Government is already in it - to see how, once this transition is over, we can start to govern in another way - which is also the interest of the Spanish Government - this new situation until we find the vaccine or the therapeutic remedy. But I insist, now, now, we have only one instrument, which is that of the freedom of restricted movements in order to be able to deal definitively, let us hope, with the last sources of this wave of the COVID-19 in our country. With regard to the spokesman for the UPC, Mrs Vehi, there is one thing I appreciate, and it is that it places more emphasis on the social circumstances than on the territorial ones. It is true that we do not agree on anything or almost anything, but I am glad that at least you share that the problem is not at borders but in people's living conditions, when you talk, for example, about ransoms and so on. Recognize that it is at least curious for a party that accuses the police of institutional racism to vote the same as the party of the far right. I say this because I am also accused of other parliamentary groups voting the same as the government is proposing. It is also curious that you complain about cuts in health, you who have already invested two governments presided over by one of the parties that have made the most cuts in public health, in this case in Catalonia. Finally, let us be consistent and act consistently, Your Honor. I thank Mrs Aizpurua for the tone and also take note of her criticisms and demands. I think it is very important to maintain the state of alarm, it is the most effective for the management of a pandemic and that is what our legislation foresees. Of course, we have always acted in the spirit of ensuring safety, of giving certainty, of preserving the health of all citizens throughout the Spanish territory, and we have done so in a coordinated manner. I insist on this idea: we have done it in a coordinated way. It was necessary to guarantee the rights of all citizens regardless of the territory in which they lived and to work so that no one would be left behind, and he knows that in this, indeed, we agree. I also insist on the terms of the transition: gradual, because we cannot move from zero to one hundred, from absolute confinement to absolute freedom, as we are not yet prepared as a society to address this new normality as a result of the presence of the virus. You yourself have also, on some occasions, reproached the Government of Spain for the fact that, in this graduality, you have seen a greater speed than you would like, for example, to protect the health of workers. However, this graduality goes hand in hand with the descalation; therefore, we need the state of alarm, because the descalation is going to be asymmetrical. The Government of Spain has always spoken of asymmetry in descalation, because obviously the situation of the pandemic is not the same in one territory as in another. The same will happen in Euskadi, and you will see the data. I am sure that there are historical territories, outlying territories in Euskadi, which have a different epidemic situation. And that is something, Your Honor, that logically we have very much in mind too. Moreover, it is adaptable, to note that as a result of the amendment tabled in this case by the Basque Nationalist Party, we have shown the willingness even to advance the reopening of some of these economic activities, depending on the reality of the territories, to a previous or previous stage, if they so indicate and have the consensus of the experts who are advising us at this stage of descalation, with all the uncertainties to which you have referred in your intervention. It is therefore adaptable, but inevitably it also needs to be coordinated, because the epidemic exists in each and every territory of our country, not only in one yes and in another no. That is why it is important, Your Honor, of course, to be gradual, asymmetry, adaptability, but certainly coordination as well. I understand that your political formation, your political project, does not share that it is the Government of Spain that coordinates this action, this descalation. I can understand that because his political project is not that, but right now, Your Honor, the only constitutional instrument we have to guarantee that orderly exit, that gradual descalation is under the coordination of the Government of Spain, and that coordination is not in conflict with the co-decision and co-governance of this issue. I insist, finally, on remembering what was the focus of infection in Euskadi on this issue. To the other groups, to Nueva Canarias, to Foro Asturias, to UPN, to Coalition Canaria, to Teruel Existe and to the PRC, I want to give them some additional reflection. Finally, I think I have tried in my speech to move that the state of alarm is not a whim, it is a decision based on experts. The alarm state works, and the numbers are showing it. The existence of a single command that coordinates and coincides has been proven effective in achieving the first goal we set ourselves, which is to flatten and bend the virus's propagation curve. Today we have more daily cured than daily infected, and that is one of the main achievements of the state of alarm. And the most sensible and responsible thing is to continue to apply what science tells us works, which is confinement, which is the restriction of mobility, which is the restriction of a basic right such as that of assembly, precisely to safeguard two fundamental rights such as public health and life. Only in this way will we gain time and only in this way can we gradually regain institutional normality. This is a government that believes in the autonomous state, in the advantages of decentralization under normal circumstances, but what we are experiencing today are not normal circumstances. We will be able to discuss the details of co-governance, to design an administrative de-escalation based on the successes of the health de-escalation, but the latter will always be logically the most important and I think it is essential to have your support, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Lastra, spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank her for the support and defence she is doing in these very complex circumstances of the management of the Spanish Government. I reiterate, as she has done, the importance of approving a further extension of the state of alarm. I conclude, Madam President, with a couple of additional reflections. Only a Government that listens, makes decisions and rectifys, is able to understand to serve an entire country that expects to return to its daily life as soon as possible. Anyone who wants to be always right is that he has denied himself the right to learn from an epidemic that is causing as much pain as anguish. Refusing to learn only causes chaos in yourself and in your own decisions and chaos is fought with planning. So you don't have to be in a hurry, you have to have method, correctness and constancy. The state of alarm works, ladies and gentlemen, and there is no other option today. Denying is denying the reality of this country where people who are victims of the virus continue to die. Denying is putting the health and safety of all our compatriots at risk. We must not compete between institutions, we must be effective as public officials. Those who are relieving themselves by demonizing the Government of Spain are wasting their time and energy, rather than investing all their efforts in defeating a virus that continues to threaten our health and our future. And those who waste time will only gain frustration and, no doubt, the disaffection of the whole citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, the last reflection is a reflection of hope, because we are close, I said it in my first speech. The smile of the little ones of the house is the symptom of illusion. This country recovers its beating with every step of the citizenry in the streets. Citizens demand that we not rush, because we rush put their lives at risk. Many parents want their children to go back to school, but they know they can't go if they want to protect them and their families, so simple. Many people want to recover the normality of their journeys, their lives, their work, but what they transmit to me, what they transmit to us, is that we must go step by step and collaborate among all the institutions. The self-employed, the businesses, want to regain their activity, but we must guarantee them a future and full security. Our young people, those who are studying, who have lost their jobs, or who are learning to survive in an uncertainty that seems eternal in linking crisis after crisis, need a strong, competent and full of opportunities. We are defeating the virus, ladies and gentlemen, but we are still fragile; let us not forget this point. We're beating the virus, but we're still fragile. Just now that we enjoy some relief, some relief, fruit of collective work and a victory, I insist, partial, we cannot fail the citizenry, we cannot abandon it. We have come this far, as I said at the beginning of my speech, as a result of the joint work, thanks to the support of this House, thanks to the immense effort and resistance of all the people of our country and, therefore, we cannot abandon them now. Spain has worked as a perfect chain with the aim of saving lives for more than fifty days. Right now that we are beginning to see the light, right now that we are beginning to see the end of the road, politics cannot be the lost link of that chain. Let's rise to it, ladies and gentlemen. I ask for seriousness, responsibility and support for the state of alarm. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u56	Mr. Sanchez, if they'd insulted us a little more, maybe we'd support the state of alarm. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: I don't believe it.]] I don't know where the cockatoos will be, but I've seen all sorts of dobermans, like the old videos from the 90s of the PSOE. It is curious that when we voted for him that we were unworthy, disloyal and useless; with abstention we are the worst opposition on the whole continent. When we vote for him that not in fifteen days, will he send us the general of the Civil Guard? You say you reach out to us, but once you've thrown the stone at us with the other. Pure cynicism, pure imposture, like that of his replicas written to computer. The truth is that the parliamentary level of the president of the government of the fourth euro economy has already been demonstrated. He talks about other countries, but he doesn't quote the dates and especially despises what he has in the country he represents. March 9: Married shows willingness to negotiate with the government proposals and measures without asking for anything in return; March 13: The PP's support for the decree without even knowing its content is voted on; March 18, in Congress: Mr. Sánchez, is not alone in the battle against this pandemic. To combat it, it has all the support of the People's Party - second vote in favour -; on 26 March: It has our support to defeat this pandemic - third vote -; on 6 April: The PP will always reach out to dialogue with the Government; on 9 April: We maintain all our support to defeat the pandemic; on 14 April: Loyalty and unity must be in two directions; on 20 April: The PP will grab his shoulder where it has to do it, in Parliament; on 22 April: It will not remain for me. I do not know if you will have to update this my friend Rui Rio in Portugal, but I have been much more generous than all the European opposition. By the way, they have done it well as a government; you have not been able to do it worse. In France, the Senate defeated, by 89 votes to 81, the law that allowed out of constitutional exceptionality the containment measures of the pandemic, so that you or your advisors who passed it on to you by computer. That you speak of moderation is something truly offensive. Says the president invested by Esquerra Republicana, by the Podemos who was going to take the dream away from him, who was thrown out of his party for lying to his militia, who lied without blinking in an election debate four days after the election, swearing and perjuring that he was not going to negotiate with whom he then became vice president, and who agreed with Bildu. By the way, today is the 19th anniversary of the murder of our colleague Manuel Giménez Abad. It is regrettable that he is grateful for the abstention of the Batasuns and the pollution with which he treats us to the opposition, which has just as many victims of terrorism as you have. [[Applauds]] The lord of the not is not now going to be a pactist, but the habit does not make the monk. Mr. Sanchez, don't hang up anymore. You don't want pacts, you just look guilty for no pacts. Hence the hypocritical duality between your spokespersons and you. It speaks of the media, of Spanish Radio-television, where children have been indoctrinated against a president of the People's Party government; you, who has included in the state of alarm a forecast for the private media to be forced to issue images of the government; you, who uses the BOE to give discretionary subsidies; you, who has a vice president who has directly threatened the media that criticizes them; you, who has launched the State Security Forces and Bodies to pursue the criticism on the network; you, who have your exporter saying that the criticism is not admissible; you, who have the commissioner of Global Spain saying yesterday that the criticism in the middle of the storm is not practically democratic. For you the protests are ultra-rightists, those who criticize make noises and those who do not support you we cause dead. That's his moral size. But who do you think you are? Do you think it's Napoleon? You are the president of democratic history with less democratic support at the polls and less support from your parliamentary group in this House. The problem is that with every vote he brings to Congress he becomes weaker; each vote is a supplication and with his insulting arrogance what awaits him is a calvary. I told him the other day on the phone - I never reveal phone conversations; I don't need it, because quickly comes out the teletype of Moncloa - something that then made public, that I imagined you were calling me to inform me about the state of alarm, but that I would count on the support of your investiture partners, as is done in all European countries. Then, the opposition is asked to join because there is a plan, there is a role. But I haven't had a single part of you in two months, I don't have a single plan. I know he doesn't have it and he doesn't have GPS, but at least trick me a little, like he does everybody else. No, he directly tells us that it is an absolute mistake not to support nothing, not to support the supposed scientific criteria of the experts who said that one could manifest, not to support those who said that the tests were worthless - Mr. Ábalos says that they only cure him when one enters the hospital; man, if we avoid entering the hospital, better - and that the masks did not have to be used. Now it turns out that he says that the absolute error is of the opposition. No, you're the absolute mistake, the problem in all this is you. How can the Spanish Government say that we are in the high-end of success with 26 000 dead and 5 million unemployed? There have been 244 deaths today. Aren't you ashamed to say that we're in the high-end of success against the pandemic? How are they so insensitive to tell the ruined that they can't open their shops because of the chaotic plan of descalation that, if they don't want to, they won't open? How do you intend to use the extraordinary alarm of the Constitution to dismantle special education on the basis of your sectarian and ideological criteria? Or, better yet, how do you intend to modify the CNI? By the way, today we have been admitted to our appeal to the Constitutional Court for putting its vice president in the CNI, which is what he said in 2016 when he tried to make the hug pact. But you're still with your new normality. By the way, be careful when adjectivating concepts. Remember Reagan when he said that the difference between democracy and popular democracy was the same between a shirt and a straitjacket. The new normality is simply very dissatisfied for all of us.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u57	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u58	I'm done. Let go of empty slogans and do your homework. Why didn't you say what the European Union just hit on your face at 11 a.m.? The European Union has said that in 2021 Spain will lead the European Union-wide unemployment above Greece. He says that the public deficit will reach 6.7%, since you were hiding. Why? Because - here comes the question - that public deficit, if we subtract it from the 10,1 % they have recognized, gives us about 3 points; that is if they admit it. We therefore already have the solution: they are going to require cuts of around EUR 35 billion. Where are you going to get them, Mr. Sanchez? You, who have squandered EUR 20 billion to go to two general elections with Friday's decrees; you, who have hidden EUR 3 billion from the European Union; you, who are now hiding a ransom and hiding the cost it has for unemployed people, pensioners and also officials. The AIReF said today that the deficit can go to 13%, 171 billion euros, and you say nothing. He says the income forecast is unreal. How is it possible that we believe that? Man, you and I are economists! Can anyone believe that a government is forecasting a collapse of 10% of the economy and that, however, only 5% of revenues fall? Man, Mr. Sanchez, please! It turns out that the German Constitutional Court also questions the ECB's credit line. Every time you have the water closer to your neck, Mr. Sanchez. Make friends, make allies, don't come with this prepotence to insult us all the time. And about taxes, do I have to explain it to you or do we leave it for your new book? Obviously, in a recession what you cannot claim is to raise taxes to companies to close them. It would be better for a company to pay later or to pay less taxes for it to close. It would be better for a worker to consume and pay taxes on receiving benefits from the State. It is the virtuous circle of the economy: if there are more people in unemployment receiving a benefit, it does not consume; since it does not consume, consumption and domestic demand are not reactivated, and therefore, it is not manufactured, it is not sold and there are fewer people paying taxes. You'd better pay more people less taxes. If you do not want to flag that competitiveness and flexibility reform that we have been asking you for two months, it seems very good to me, but do not say that this is a problem of cuts. Are you going to talk about cuts, Mr. Sanchez? He voted in that seat with his finger...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u59	Mr. Married, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u60	I'm done, Madam President. ... the biggest freezing of the welfare state of history, voted for the freezing of pensions, voted for the 5 % cut in salaries to civil servants, voted for a cut in public health of EUR 1.5 billion. By the way, the Treasury report has not told me, where it acknowledges that we raised it by EUR 9 billion when we ruled. [[Show a document]] We created seven million jobs and saved Spain from the two recessions left by the Socialist Party. And I'm done with the chascarillos. They're talking about Australia's report. The report exists, five media outlets published it; it was you who misled those of Johns Hopkins, Oxford and the OECD. So don't have the defiance to come here with falsehoods. It also falsified some issues that said the difference between science and law. Hey, if it's not incompatible. By the way, this morning he said about the non-relevance of scientists in Spain; I think he felt pretty bad about what I saw on the networks. I have been explaining six laws at your disposal for half an hour to maintain mobility limitations or to maintain single command. Of course there is an alternative, don't tell me: no, it's that you want to lift everything and you want to leave us out of the weather. Lie, what I'm saying is that, like all European countries, you have basic legislation to modify it...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u61	Mr. Married, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u62	...and if you need help, we can do it. [[Rumors]] Mr Sánchez, if you wanted a plan B, an alternative, we've given it to you in its entirety, I've explained it today. What I don't tolerate is that you say that we mistreat the toilets, no. Mrs. Lastra, this is the third time you've done it and I'm not going to tolerate it. It is the government who mistreats the health care workers, who does not give them protection and who sends them to work without masks, without PPE and without test, that is, a little bit of decency. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u63	Quiet, please. Mr. Married, you've doubled your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u64	I'm done. In ten years, ten thousand more health professionals, 14% more health budget, twelve public hospitals and one hundred more health centres. [[Protests]] With regard to justice, whether we oppose you repealing or amending an organic law with a royal decree is something obvious. And as for the government's discrepancies, Mr Sánchez, look at your bench and your councils of ministers with a lag. Solé Tura was against the state of alarm; Gabriel Cisneros warned of the limitation of fundamental rights. I wish we had people his size in the government, but we don't have them. Mr Sánchez, you are increasingly alone in this Chamber and in Spanish society. If you don't have GPS, we've given you a map, you can use it, a plan B, an alternative made with some of the best constitutionalists and economists in this country, pay attention. Take advantage of these fifteen days, you are warned that it is the last vote that will not be negative - I think many groups can accompany us - and allow the Spaniards to break ranks, yes, we are not soldiers, we are free and equal citizens of a great nation to which the worst president has touched at the worst time. Fortunately, this won't come free. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u65	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u66	Mr. Sanchez, what an effort you have in which I hate you. I told you the other day, you're not that important to me. Although I have to say in a way that you seem admirable to me, today you have been plethoratric and you have been in office for the first time in a long time as President of the Government, I believe that by taking advantage of the absence of the Co-President, who left after setting the Chamber on fire and threatening the opposition fifteen days ago. You also served today practically as President of Congress, because you started your speech by saying that you were going to order the debate. No, Mr Sánchez, the debate is ordered by Mrs Batet, who is the President of Congress, and I have been afraid for a moment that you will also end it by taking advantage of the state of alarm. But what has already surprised me most is that you wanted to be a psychologist with me. I appreciate that, but I don't think I need it. While we were here, while you were here to explain to the groups, your spokesman, Mr Simon, according to news from El País, has refused to give the names to the journalists of the eleven members of the committee who decide when each phase community changes, saying that the pressures they would suffer would make it very difficult for them to work freely. [[shows a press clipping]] But who do you think you are? Where do they think they live? What country do you think you're in? How is it possible that you dare not give the names of the members of a committee of experts who will decide on the health and life of the Spaniards? Do you really think we're going to accept a secret committee? Can you tell me who gave you that Soviet advice? Maybe the one who got up today so he didn't have to listen to the opposition. I suppose I can say that, even though you want to order the debate. [[The lady]] I was impressed to hear you today when, instead of defending the positions of the Government, you opposed other governments in Europe: you have made a story of what other governments, other colleagues you see yourself with have been doing wrong all these weeks. I do not know if they have done it wrong, because I am aware of what is happening in Spain and not so much what is happening outside, but in my people they call this one way, and I suppose in theirs too: evil of many. I guess you know the saying. You, Mr Sánchez, and I am sorry to say this, have allowed, consciously or unconsciously, that the state of alarm is becoming the instrument of a totalitarian communist party to destroy employment, to destroy businesses, to destroy the self-governing, to destroy the middle classes and so that there are millions of workers and citizens in Spain who have to live on an income and thus have to obey the slogans of Mr Iglesias, as well as to destroy opposition, political pluralism and also fundamental rights, such as the right of assembly. That is why your partner asks you to extend the state of alarm indefinitely. For what? To take advantage of and advance a political agenda? And he comes here and tells us that we have to depoliticize the emergency, as the rest of Europe has done? And does it evoke and appeal to opposition from other countries? In Portugal or Italy they are not better because there is unity between the government and the opposition, they are better because the government did not hide information from the opposition or citizens and because they have not taken political measures to pursue the opposition and gag citizens on social networks. That is why they are better and that is why they are more united, and because they do not have a communist faction in the government that is allowed in the middle of the pandemic to attack the head of state and even to appeal from this rostrum, as Mr. Iglesias did the other day, to the Civil War, with his permission and with his silence, Mr. Sánchez. You cannot ask us for support after what we have had to hear in this rostrum. They have turned the state of alarm into a state of emergency, not with limitation but with suspension of fundamental rights and freedoms, posing a blackmail and a lie to this House. Indeed, I believe that with the arguments that you have defended, the state of alarm could be extended throughout the legislature. By the way, I have to congratulate myself from this rostrum because today the Constitutional Court has admitted to our appeal for the appointment of Mr. Iglesias in the CNI, as well as another appeal for you to apply an undercover state of emergency, using the state of alarm. Mr Sánchez - I no longer tell Mr Marlaska because he has had to leave -, I insist, answer me, because they have not done so. Are you going to ban you, because you, your government delegations, decide on demonstrations of protest by car, which pose no risk to public health, against your government? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer me. I think you do not know the Spaniards if you intend to prevent them from protesting when they are ruined, even threatened by this government. Do not confuse the solidarity and good behavior of the Spaniards with meekness. You've made a very big mistake. He talked about the far-right casceroladas. I would like to say - because when you talk about the far right you should refer to us - that all those who have taken out the saucepan these days on the balcony were VOX voters, because we would have many more millions of votes. I do not know how you do not know in such a flagrant and serious way the Spanish people, whom you have to represent. I am convinced that many of the people who go out to the balconies with the saucepans have not voted for us or probably never voted for us. I don't know how you dared to insult them that way. They come here to pose a blackmail, reminiscent of an old viquette by Brother Lobo: or us or chaos! Indeed, you are chaos as you have shown in the descalation: first, children could only go to the supermarkets; now it is thought that only half can go to schools, and then that curfew at eleven o'clock in the night, I suppose to avoid crowds. It's totally illogical! If we want fewer people to concentrate on the street, the more hours we can get out, the better. I believe that this is neither right nor left, nor ultra-left or ultra-right, Mr Sánchez. The serious thing about your speeches is that you come here to bring up issues that have nothing to do with the debate and, when we answer you, you blame us, and you say that we are talking about things that you have previously spoken about. What about the pandemic? You guys don't talk about that? We're talking about the pandemic. What about the pandemic? I don't know what's going on. Are there 40,000 dead, 50,000 dead? We don't know the data. We will meet them, millions of ruined, millions of people desperate, angry with this government and who want to protest. And there is an incapable, negligent and sectarian government, which is a danger for its lies, for its negligence and for its sectarianism, and because you bring Spain and millions of Spaniards to ruin, and thousands of compatriots to invisible ferrets. You are a danger to health, democracy and freedom. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Confederal Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u68	Thank you, President. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, I deeply regret that today we have not been able to send a clear and unanimous message of unity. [[The lady]] I think we've played with the game rules before the pandemic and we haven't been a mirror of what citizenship wants. We haven't been up to it. We have reproduced the pre-pandemic fight and I think we have disappointed many citizens, beyond the fact that the state of alarm has finally been extended. I'll make three replicas, the first to Mr. Married. I have listened to you and I thought what you would do if you were in the government, if Rajoy were there, if we hadn't thrown him out. And I thought: maybe you would have confined the poor, but not those who would like to go to your second residences, like Mr Aznar; maybe we would not be confined because, in fact, Mr Rajoy was one of the first to break the state of alarm and for that reason he has been fined; maybe you would have sent everyone to your offices, in fact, you wanted to come here to work all, like the lords of VOX, putting at risk the workers of this house, and I sincerely thank him for changing your mind, and I asked him publicly. You quoted Huxley, and Huxley said that the facts do not cease to exist even if they are ignored. And the scientific facts say that clearly that was a treachery. I don't know what you would do, but I do know what you did in the previous crisis, and I think you have to do just the opposite of what you did. To Mr Abascal - who is not here now - I say that he has devoted his intervention basically to talking about Mr Churches, and I think that is consistent with his position, because they have said virtually nothing about why they are against the state of alarm. Indeed, they are against the social shield, and they know that if Churches were not in government it is possible that the social shield, as we know it, was not either. In fact, VOX is clear, and in that sense it cannot be reproached that they are not coherent, they want to privatize public health and they are against solidarity taxes for the great fortunes. The problem of VOX is not only that it is the extreme right, it is that they represent 1% that are at the service of the great economic and factual powers of this country. The truth is, I find your comparison with Parachutes delusional. And they tell us we're civil war! The truth is, I've hallucinated. You - you are not; well, whoever is VOX right now - have been talking about it for several days, several weeks, state of emergency, coups d'état, and it is amazing that you see coups d'état where there are no coups and instead are unable to see coups d'état where there were coups. The third line I wanted to make is Mr. Rufian. The truth is that I came with the intention, Mr Rufián, of talking about your attitude, your tone, your speech of recent times and thanking you, because I think it has to do precisely with that tradition of your party of fraternity, of republicanism, which is the one that represented your partner very well and I think you have also been representing very well during this time. You said that I had a very complicated role today, very difficult, and I wanted to say two things to you. It is true that there is nothing more useless in politics than being unable to assume contradictions to transform reality. There is no use in the paralyzing hypercriticism that is punched, that is punched in the face of the mirror, but that is politically powerless to change reality. My contradictions are my hopes, said Joan Fuster - one of my reference writers -, and I think you have to assume contradictions when you're in politics if you want to change things. But I sincerely believe that the one who felt uncomfortable today is you. I've felt uncomfortable many times - I have to admit -, there are things I don't like about my party or the government. I didn't like so many military people on television, and you don't like a lot of things about your government or your party - I know, we've talked about it many times - but I honestly felt very comfortable today. I think that today it was you who felt uncomfortable and, in fact, that's why I saw you with a more angry tone than usual. Yesterday I was talking to a fellow party leader, a leader - I'm not going to reveal his name - and he was telling me that this is the pendulum tradition of Republican Left, and it's true, I've spoken it to him on other occasions. Republican Left in the 1980s, the Republican Left of Hortalà, of Herbert Barrera, but also of Colom when he was tandem with Rahola, was one thing; the Republican Left of Carod-Rovira was another, and Republican Left has always tended to move like a pendulum, prioritizing the national axis and then prioritizing the left axis, depending on the moment. And I don't say that either of the two axes is abandoned, I say that priority is given to one and the other, and for a long time Republican Left was the crutch of Convergence and Union. Instead, with Carod Esquerra Republicana he bet on supporting Pascual Maragall. Carod-Rovira - with whom many of us felt identified - felt more comfortable talking to Pascual Maragall than with Pujol or Mas. That is one tradition and the other is another tradition; they are the two souls in which you live together. I know that you are part of the tradition that sees most the axis of the left, like Mr Tardà, so I am convinced that you today - like many of your voters, many of your activists - feel uncomfortable with the position you have had to defend. I was talking to him about Mr. Tardà, but I could have told him about the BNG or Bildu. The spokesman for Bildu, Mrs Aizpurua, the truth is that - eskerrik asko - she has shown that one can be independentist, one can criticize the government but, instead, do not forget the common good. I think it has marked a point of reference, therefore, thanks to Bildu for not being dragged by Esquerra, which has been dragged by Torra. And, despite all I'm saying to you, Mr. Rufián, the truth is that I'm extending my hand because I know we have to agree in the future. We're meant to understand each other. It was said by Xavi Domènech in a book he wrote with Tardà precisely, and I very much agree with what they said in that book and I think you certainly did too. We were able to agree - now, precisely this month, two years ago - to throw the People's Party away, to take corruption away, and I think that if we were able then we would also have to be able now, that we are facing this challenge of a global epidemic that does not understand ideological colors but does understand social classes. And I think that now is a time when there is a common sense of time when you and we can meet again in this reconstruction committee to shield public services, because the countries that have made the most austerity policies are precisely the countries that are less prepared to deal with this crisis. That's right. We need more beds. It's very good to applaud doctors, toilets, every day at eight o'clock in the afternoon, but we need fewer cuts and more beds. We need...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u69	Mr. Asens, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u70	Yes, President. I'm done. This is not going to distribute pizzas among vulnerable groups, this is going to address the crisis without cuts. As I was saying, we are at a time when we need fewer pizzas, less hamburgers and more rights, more social shield. We also need to push for a great green transformation. We can't go back to the planet, we can't go back to being a virus for the planet, because we'll end up being a virus for us, too. Now it is precisely an opportunity to modernize this country with that axis, because it is not the idea of four ecologists, it is an imperative that must be imposed now. And also - and I end this idea - we need to re-found Europe. It is clear that we are now at a great crossroads and the European project can drown like refugees in the Mediterranean Sea during the previous European crisis. It is in our hands to try not to do so and I believe that with you we can reach agreements in that direction. Finally, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u71	Mr. Asens, you just have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u72	Just a reference. I would like to say to the President that we are also obliged to give courageous and innovative answers that offer certainty, health and economic security to all citizens, and I think it would be a mistake to conform to being the least bad alternative. We must put forward new horizons for the future, for hope, and I believe that now is a great opportunity to build a new world that is different from the old one, which has brought us here. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u74	Thank you very much, President. Two previews. The first one's fine. I'm glad to hear the right talk about transparency, because this will stop deleting hard drives and giving them hammers when they catch one of their own stealing, surely; and I'm glad they denounce the fact that from the left - I understand we're there too - we control the networks, because, as everyone knows, Twitter and WhatsApp are full of tricolors, stellates, hammers, picks, all that... It's terribly absurd. The bad news is that there are people who buy it from him, and I think we need to think about it, because people like Trump or Bolsonaro have come to power on that basis. It's all in the magnificent series The Highest Voice, which explains this from Fox and Roger Ailes. Mr. Asens, Jaume, here I usually quote Marx, Allende and people like that. Today I'm going to quote Jorge Javier Vázquez, who said the other day what Pablo Iglesias painted here, right? [[laughs]] Well, what does this attack on Esquerra do here, what does it do here? You talk about discomfort. Were you comfortable with the Barcelona model? Was it comfortable when Ada Colau was mayor thanks to Valls' de facto votes, of a guy who did export thousands of gypsies to France? Was he comfortable? What's the use of me telling you this here? Was it comfortable when Podemos removed the mayor's office from the CUPs and the Republican Left to ally with the PSOE? Probably not, right? What good is it for you here to tell me that of more Tardà and less Torra? Okay. It's like I'm telling you more Maragall and less Valls, isn't it? It's no use, clap with your ears, as I've said before. So I don't know what it's for, but I'm asking you not to do it anymore, please, because you know how unfair and cheating it all is. Mr President, I agree with you on the subject that it is wrong to say that you are voting with one another, you are voting with another, but that the fact that you have turned around, you have turned around, you have agreed, in short, with Citizens, for us is very much a matter of skin and it hurts us especially for the compañeras and compañeras of the United Nations We can. We're talking about the people at the Lledoners hotel, I repeat, the Lledoners hotel, which is what they call the cell, the cells where our companions are. You may not like independence very much, you may fall fatal Pain Bassa, Carme Forcadell and company, but if you're decent, you know it's an absolute barbarity that you're in a cell and it's even more absolutely barbaric to say it's a hotel. That is the people with whom you have agreed, so for us it is a matter of skin, just as it is that you tell us, according to what environments, that we are next to fascism, the ultra-right, the extreme right, in short, of VOX, people who, in total, asked 500 years of imprisonment for our comrades, 100 years of imprisonment! So I also ask you not to say it or to whom not to say it. The facts change, the opinions change, you are the first to talk about decontainment. Well, we talk, we talk, but let's start by breaking down politics and criticisms are positive, as long as they're constructive. Have we criticized anything? Yeah, but just like people as unsuspecting as Ximo Puig. Is Ximo Puig from Esquerra? Or like Nuñez Feijóo. Is Nuñez Feijóo CUP? No, no, And it is true that there are alternatives, there are alternatives, we have explained them. The first one? Co-responsibility. What's this about? Do you want to do it like this? Well, let's do it, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, I talk to Mrs. Lastra every day, you can do it, but we can't fix everything, and we fix a lot of things. The second option is that of horizontality, and it is true that there are autonomous and state mechanisms to do so, if not, how could the Generalitat confine the Conca d'Odena or Equalized? With mutual cooperation, in short, Mr President, with mutual cooperation. I'm done. I believe that there is a virus that will not be as terrible as this, but very terrible in the future, which is the electoral virus, the electoral virus, and I think that among all of us we have to make an effort to understand each other and that things like today are not repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u76	Let's see, I'll start with the allusions too. Mr Asens, you said it was important to be flexible, you said it before, I suppose to justify the pact with Citizens. I suppose abandoning the convictions for someone who has always held up and shown himself to do politics from the convictions, is Marxism, but in this case of Groucho Marx. And when you say more Tardà and less Torra, I say to you: more Tardà and more Torra. Think about what Joan Tardà and President Torra share, think about what they share with you: the recognition of the right to self-determination, the struggle for rights and freedoms, on October 1 as an exercise of collective self-determination. I ask you not to make us pay for your contradictions. Since you mentioned Joan Fuster, my contradictions are my hopes. Don't make us pay for your inconveniences and contradictions. Mr Rufián, welcome, Mrs Vehi has told you before, welcome to our position. When we agree, we make ourselves better understood inside and outside. Mr Sánchez, you complain that the opposition has been hard from the beginning, but that you have made many mistakes from the beginning. It appeals to the responsibility of the rest of the political forces, but in this crisis you must assume responsibility for your actions and your pacts. See how I told you you didn't listen? Not now, either, because he looks at his cell phone, but see how he doesn't listen? He doesn't listen because the problem is not the state of alarm. I see him and I told him, I was defending him, I was delighted to see him defend some positions that President Torra had moved from the very beginning. The problem is this state of alarm, this extension, the one they don't agree with, the one they don't negotiate. They have told you now too, how could the Conca d'Odena e Igualada be confined, if it was done on the 11th and you did not say that you were going to do it until the 14th, but did not apply the confinement until the 29th? [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: That's not true]] Don't tell me I'm missing the truth because I'm not. As much as you repeat it, a lie does not become reality. But look, he has not sought the support of the rest of the parties, he has waited for it to arrive, like Waiting for Godot, the support. Consensus is always much better than decreeing, Mr Sánchez, I am sure you know it, but you have assumed and have not exercised that dialogue. And I've told you, the epidemic is evolving, but the state is evolving, at least the state of self-government, and the limitation or violation of rights and freedoms - which you've previously made rhetorical balances to justify the limit - is always a matter of perspective. See how it will even have to be done by a Supreme Prosecutor who participated in the October 1 trial. He's been talking about ailments, there's no ailments. Walter Ricciardi, a member of the Council of the World Health Organization, said with regard to Spain - I quote textually -: I would have applied the measures ten days earlier. And he added: For the coronavirus ten days can be a lifetime. And the price we've paid in those more than ten days is unfortunately calculated in human lives. But when it suits you, viruses don't understand territory, and when it doesn't, it doesn't matter if they understand territory! So much so that in a little more than a month the virus has learned Spanish geography in order to be able to delimit by territories. But it is also his Government that does not learn that these territories are better managed from closeness than from authority. It seems obvious to the Government of Catalonia to have to manage health crises through health regions. What he sees as extravagance is his commitment to manage a health crisis through administrative demarcations. Do you really think a citizen doesn't know which hospital to go to, Mr. Sánchez? Don't tell me, there are a lot of people who suspend geography, but everyone knows what hospital they have to go to. You've alluded to her. The law regulating the state of alarm states in its article 1: The declaration of the states of alarm, exception or place shall be made when extraordinary circumstances make it impossible to maintain normality through the ordinary powers of the competent authorities. It's textual. The state of alarm is never necessary for legal reasons, because a situation cannot be regulated by other means. Therefore, this state of alarm, which you intend to impose, is not necessary for decontainment right now. We have to keep getting ahead of ourselves. Do you have a reconfining plan if a second wave can occur? Do you have it or are you already preparing it? If so, we'll want to know with what indicators, in the midst of the piles of numbers that are stalling. I'm done, Madam President. 'In the history of Spain democracy and political decentralization of the State have always needed each other, they have been inseparable realities. Centralism has only managed to impose itself by sacrificing political freedom.' These are the first four lines of the 2013 Granada Pact of the PSOE. It is proverbial, and it is oracular; the centralism that you and Podemos have imposed has sacrificed political freedom. They denounced it in 2013; they perpetrated it in 2020, in a state of alarm in times of coronavirus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, I believe that all citizens are aware that managing this pandemic would not have been easy for any government, but I do know that there is a feeling of envy for other countries where this virus and this pandemic have been managed much better, where they have much better health and economic data, and where there really is political unity. In our country we have none of these things, but nothing prevented us from being at the top of the good management of this crisis. You make an appeal to the unit and I share it. I think there are many Spaniards who would like to see that at a time like this there is political unity and there is consensus on the measures to get out of this crisis, but to ask for unity one must be credible, and I do not know whether to choose Mrs Lastra as spokesperson at a time like this to make these debates is to have a lot of credibility when it comes to asking for unity. Today we have not been touched by Mrs Lastra's anger, because today we are voting on one thing that you like, but it will be up to me in the next plenary or in the other, when I vote on something that the government does not like. By the way, Mrs Lastra has made tremendous criticisms of a party such as the People's Party, but neither has Bildu nor the Republican Left of Catalonia, which is going to vote against; nor does she. You have 155 seats. I hope that this pandemic will serve, among other things, to know who are the state parties, who are the parties loyal to the Spanish, who are the responsible parties and who are the parties that, in the midst of a pandemic, begin to say that with an independent Catalonia there would have been fewer deaths. I'll always think about the general interest and I don't mind some days some people calling me a facha and some days some people calling me a traitor. I will always think of the autonomous who could have been taken off this Saturday because at the moment there is no economic plan; I will always think of the families; I will think of the 244 people - if I don't have the wrong data - who died today because of this pandemic. Mr Sánchez, you appeal to unity and I would like to have it, no doubt, but you will also have to work hard to be credible by asking for unity. I say it because we all remember how you did opposition when you were in opposition; I say it because I hope you will correct yourself - and I think you will do it from now on - but you can spend eighteen days without calling the opposition. You do press conferences where you announce states of alarm and economic measures that you have not agreed with anyone. I believe that the citizens have seen this unilaterality and improvisation of the government, and they have seen how there is some party that, despite all this, is reaching out and is trying to save lives and save jobs, despite, I repeat, the circumstances. I would like to remind you that today we do not vote for an assessment by the Government of Sánchez e Iglesias; today we vote whether the state of alarm falls this Saturday or not, or if it is delayed at least fifteen more days. We have it clear, when I vote, I will think of the self-employed, the families, the workers, and we will try to be as useful as possible. And I think we have been because we have taken three conditions from the government that are important. Firstly, to extend the ERTE and the aids and to untie them beyond the state of alarm, because I believe that everyone understands that when the state of alarm falls, when the cause of force majeure falls - as Mr Sánchez said - it is not going to recover one hundred percent of the demand. We are in a pandemic and entire sectors are going to suffer a great deal, and it is normal and necessary to untie ERTE and other economic and social aid from the legal declaration of the state of alarm. The second of the conditions - and I want to insist a lot on this, Mr Sánchez - is that you need an orderly exit plan B from the state of alarm. You need it for a technical question, because, are you telling the Spaniards, Mr. Sánchez, that if a rebound comes in the fall you're going to declare the state of alarm again? Are you telling the Spaniards that you are going to prolong the state of alarm until October, until November, when many experts say that there may be a rebound in our country? I guess not. You therefore need a plan B to ensure health measures and economic and social measures to protect workers. But it does need a plan B for something more arithmetic; it needs a plan B because it has a government with one hundred and fifty-five seats. What if you lose the vote in 15 days? You're not going to protect us in any way? You would have to have a plan B, a plan C, a plan D and all that was needed. Therefore, you need - and Spain needs - to make a plan B that gives legal, health, social and economic coverage when the state of alarm falls. And I'm telling you from the position from which I'm voting you do extend fifteen more days of state of alarm, because we can't get out of state of alarm this Saturday. The third of the requirements is very clear: measures must be agreed; health measures have not been agreed with anyone. I really believe that you will have to increase the compulsory use of masks, as you have had to do in public transport, although at first you did not want to. Economic measures must be talked about, there are sectors that can fall in an unprecedented way. We're going to have a dramatic economic situation. The situation in itself did not start from good data at the aggregate level, but do you know the concern in many families not only that their parents or grandparents can die, but not whether they are going to have to lose their home or whether they are going to be able to buy at the supermarket because they have been in an ERTE for two months without charging? Really, I think we need to get out of this political bubble and think about how we can be useful, each from our responsibility. But, I insist, we are not making an assessment of the Government, because I believe I have made my position clear about what I think of this Government, and I will not leave a moment to criticize and denounce the mistakes and abuses that the Government is also making at a time like this. But perhaps today and now is the last intervention I make before I bring a child into this world, and I can assure you and I can ask you that every time you vote something, every time you do something from the government you don't think about saving anyone's political career, you don't think about saving a government at all costs; you think about saving lives and saving jobs. For that, for that responsibility, there will be ten seats here, but not to save you or your Government, to save the Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u80	Yes, Madam, this time it is. Thank you very briefly. I just want to say to the President - he has mentioned this - that the supra-territorial, coordination and so on must also be taken into account. Let us see whether we are aware that the amendment we have tabled is in that direction; what we are talking about is co-governance, co-decision and, in that sense, more effective. Naturally, in a pandemic we cannot be blind to what is happening around us, but from there to think that there can be no margin or that things cannot be done otherwise is different. That is why I insist that I believe that coordination is possible, not only on the basis of good will, which I understand from all the institutions, but also on the basis of ordinary laws. I believe that as we move forward on the derailment it will be increasingly possible for such coordination to be made through other instruments. And I understand that there may be some acute situations in some places. Well, maybe the state of alarm should be restricted to those territorial areas. These are ideas that I leave there and that I think we should go to work. Let's see how things are evolving, but let's start thinking about how this can be the next step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u82	Mr. Sanchez, you haven't listened to me. It has not responded to the questions I have raised, and instead it has been invented that I have raised a sort of independence scheme of the coronavirus - at all - something like a path to epidemiological independence. [[The President of the Government, Sánchez-Pérez Castejón, makes negative gestures]] No, I didn't, I didn't. I have explained our proposal - a proposal that I believe is reasonable, sensible and consumable - and I have also told you that it would be coordinated with the Ministry of Health; I have explained it in this way. I have also told him other things, I have asked him not to break bridges, to rebuild the support that led him to the Presidency and I have asked him several times to listen, and you at least have not listened to me, again; a pity. Of your two speeches, Mr Sánchez, it has not been clear to me - I suppose to anyone else, because it has not been very clear on the subject - how much longer you are going to prolong the state of alarm. Sine die? Or do you intend to extend it again for another 15 days, with this parliamentary panorama that you have? Another 15 days of show for the votes? [[The President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, makes negative gestures]] In this matter of centralization there is one basic thing that I want to highlight, and that is that Basque citizenship needs no guardians of anyone, is of age and forms a social amalgam of people capable, solvent, with intellectual resources and who knows how to respond to situations. As in other places, you'll tell me. Yes, of course, as in other places, but with the difference that we and we have been robbed of the possibility of being able to respond better to this health crisis. I am not saying that we would have done better, because we do not know, I do not know, and we do not know because your Government, with its policy of non-cooperation, of re-centralisation and of sole command, has robbed us of the possibility of doing so. And no, it's not about proving anything, it's about doing things the best possible way to achieve the best possible results; it's about that, nothing else. On the other hand, I told you before that we have never understood politics as if it were a Persian bazaar. There are those who have as a priority in politics to protect capital, safeguard prerogatives, stay in wealth while they condemn the majority to poverty and precariousness. Some people have other priorities, including making choices even if they are in a state of health alarm. Ours is still the one that brought us here, to this Chamber: to defend the interests of the Basques and Basques and, as long as we decide here issues that concern us and affect us, to defend also the interests of the working classes of the State, to protect those who need protection. That is our priority and in that defense we have been derailing our position in this crisis of the coronavirus as well. Today, Mr Sánchez, your priority is to save the vote from the extension of the state of alarm, although for this you have preferred to look to the right rather than to seek and work the support of the left forces. Do you know why the steps that are taking right now are so important? Because the society of the coming decades will depend on the decisions that are made now, in this present so convulsed. History, it is true, has accelerated enormously throughout the world, and things are coming up that a few months ago would be unimaginable, unthinkable to all of us. But this situation that we are experiencing does not necessarily push us towards a certain future, quite the opposite; it forces us to make decisions, to choose; ultimately to choose. And it is already known that different decisions or elections will shape different futures. This window, terrible and frightening by the suffering and anguish it has brought with it for millions of people, is also crucial to drawing that different scenario. A scenario that will close or open depending on the decisions that are made now, and depending on the direction in which those decisions are made; and the time to influence the direction of history is this, here and in the world. I hope you keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Pilar. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Casado has us used to something other than in my land, and I imagine that in all of Spain, he is older than hunger, which is to fight so that they do not fight you. He comes out here, calls us all, insults us, defames us, slanders us, lies us, distorts the data, and then, when we answer him, he becomes offended and says that we insult him. Look, fifteen days ago I told you a story about everything you had said since the very day of the state of alarm statement, and not in the media, but here, in this rostrum, Mr. Married, and among other things I told you that you accused us of breaking the Constitution, the rule of law, the separation of powers and private property, and that's where that is. Today you have even gone further because, look, you have hit your own record: thirty-seven insults in fifteen minutes in your first speech, yes, Mr. Married, at three insults per minute. It has been their contribution today to the efforts of Spanish society to save lives. Look, I'm going to tell you some of the things I've taken note of: manipulator, liar, cesarist, embezzler, incompetent, incapable, inept, greedy, lousy, negligent, arbitrary, irresponsible, nefarious, opaque, fraudulent... - I'm going to get air -, healer. It's like a Gila joke and we use the Spaniards as Pavlov dogs. And that is what you said, not by the Socialist Group, which has not accused you of any of this, Mr Casado. So up to thirty-seven insults. [[Applauds]] That has been all their contribution to the biggest crisis in recent Spanish history. But look, not all the insults in the dictionary are going to help you hide the irresponsibility of not supporting the state of alarm, Mr. Married. For weeks, the Spanish Government has been accused of all the evils, and when someone reminds it of the disaster, because that is a disaster and not Mr Ángel Gabilondo, of his management in Madrid, the only thing he does is to point out to the Spanish Government in this too, and it is good to take a look at the citizens, Mr Casado, because, look, the measures of the Spanish Government - let's say it again - apply in all the autonomous communities, in all the autonomous communities alike, but only in Madrid, only in this community that you have become in your laboratory of privatizations, residences and health care, there is the disastrous situation that all the Spanish people look distressed at, Mr Casado. And that's all right, because the time will come to speak of all this clearly and to hold you accountable for all that you have done and have not done either. And then you won't be able to hide in such gross lies that they'll be unmasked in five minutes. Look, I'm going to quote a classic, Marco Aurelio, when he said that what's not useful for the hive is not useful for the bee. Take note, Mr. Married. Madame Arrimadas, one never knows what to stick to with you, with Citizens; if I name you, wrong, if I don't name you, worse, in any case, what I won't enter is provocations. I'm already used to personal attacks on the part of your group, and so I'm not even going in. I still think the same of Citizens as on January 7. Finally, since Mr. Rufián takes me to dance in this rostrum, look, Mr. Rufián, appreciated Gabriel, two inconsistencies of his speech and a certainty. The first incoherence: you in your speech asked to maintain the content of the alarm state measurements, but without the alarm state, and do not agree one thing with the other. The second inconsistency is that in his speech he also said that the Government has listened to them in a number of things they have raised and yet he accuses us of not wanting to sit down or not to negotiate. The certainty, Mr Rufián, is that you know that this decision is a political decision that you have not taken this week, but that you have taken a long time ago, and that on 27 April, Mr Rufián, Mrs Marta Vilalta made public on behalf of the Republican Left of Catalonia. Therefore, let us be aware of that reality, do not rely on other things because you know very well - and I too - that this Government and this group have wanted to negotiate and have wanted to sit down and talk. I once again extend my hand, Mr Rufián, to you and to the Republican Left of Catalonia, because I am convinced that the future of this country, the social and economic future of this country, the well-being of the citizens goes hand in hand with the understanding of the left of this Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thanks to all the parliamentary groups for their words, for the tone, and above all to those parliamentary groups that have decided to support the extension of the state of alarm. I think it was in one of the first appearances I made before this House when I talked that this epidemic was going to bring us different stages in the struggle to achieve victory, a partial victory first, which would be the one we are already getting, which is to bend the curve, that is, that there have been more recovered or cured daily than diagnosed. I believe that we have achieved this and that the trend is also being confirmed. It is true that we will have to take it with all the prudence possible, because we will indeed have to see in the coming days what are the effects of the decontainment that we are approving and that we are implementing throughout the territory; I mean the freedom of recovery that you know from the walking spaces of minors, then from the people who want to do sport, from the walks of the elderly, etc. Therefore, we will have to see what is the evolution of the epidemic data and the number of diagnosed according to the consequences of the decisions we are making in this transition to normality. But it is clear that this partial victory - I also like to use the partial term, because it is not complete - we have achieved it jointly thanks to the efforts of all the institutions and of the citizens as a whole, and certainly also of the health professionals. There will be a second victory, also partial, which will be when we complete this whole process of descalation, and finally the victory will be total when, within that new normality, science, researchers achieve the vaccine or the therapeutic remedy that we expect to arrive before then. Why am I saying this? Because to the question that is being asked to the government - I also think it is very reasonable - whether what the government is asking is the horizon of a state of perpetual alarm in the coming months, until we find the vaccine or the therapeutic remedy, I answer categorically: no, no, on the contrary. I think it is very important to recall that the state of alarm is not part of the political project of this coalition government. The political project of this government is to expand freedoms, recover social rights, rebuild the public, which is one of the main lessons that we have to draw from this crisis; it is to create employment and that this employment is worthy; it is to build a minimum vital income with the help of the autonomous communities, respecting the competences of the autonomous communities; it is to project an image of Spain solidarity, Europeanism, it is logically to grow in a sustainable way by achieving this ecological transition. That is the political project with which this government came before you and achieved the parliamentary majority that allowed us to form this government and me to be invested. Therefore, the state of alarm is not part of the political project. I have said this before; it is part of a need as a result of an emergency that has arisen as a result of the invasion of COVID in our country and on the European continent. I would therefore like you to be calm about those three phases that I have described earlier. The first, concerning the approval by all of you of that alarm decree to confine us all to our homes and prevent the spread of the virus. The second, of descalation, in which there is a state of alarm that allows us to modulate the graduality of that exit that we need over the next few weeks. It will be possible to say: you are setting a horizon of six weeks, eight weeks. We are not raising this; it is a requirement of the epidemic, of what the experts are telling us. We need two weeks, which is the incubation period, to know exactly what is the result of the measures we are taking and, consequently, what is the assessment we make from science and experts of the decontainment measures we are implementing. Ladies and gentlemen, the spirit of the Spanish Government is that the descalation should take place as soon as possible, because that will mean, with all prudence and caution, that we are moving faster than we expect towards this new normality. And what we are doing is to be as strict as possible in the fulfillment of what our Constitution marks: every fifteen days come here to account, ask for support and win another fifteen days so that we can manage that state of alarm. There is no doubt that we will indeed have to put forward governance when the demand to restrict mobility and freedom of assembly ends in the coming months. In this sense, it shows the will of the Government of Spain to work with the parliamentary groups so that, when we can address this new situation and govern it, we can do so with the legal instruments that exist: the organic or non-organic laws and the modifications that we can bring to the House so that such governance is as effective as possible. In any case, the important thing is to stress again, ladies and gentlemen, that now, at this very moment, given the evolution of the pandemic, the only way we can guarantee a gradual transition and the most - let us say - prudent possible is, logically, the state of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision - believe me, I say this from the heart - to come to the Congress of Deputies and ask them for a further extension of the state of alarm is based on science; on science. And those who oppose and do not vote in favour of the state of alarm and its extension are making their decision on the basis of the worst of policies, which is party politics. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the support of those parliamentary groups which, even if they do not share a political project such as that which we represent or even share a vision of Spain which I, as President of the Government, can represent, put forward the general interest. Not only does it say a lot about you, but also about those who, in a critical hour like the one that our society and our country are experiencing, fail the Spaniards again and profile themselves at a time as critical as the current one. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. We'll vote in a minute. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Unique point. Acts in relation to the states of alarm, exception and site. Request for authorization of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decrees 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April, and 492/2020 of 24 April. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm, under the terms of the agreement on its admission to procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 45 plus 303 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 12 plus 78 telematics votes, 90; against, 32 plus 225 telematics votes, 257; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u88	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 303 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 7 plus 17 telematics votes, 24; against, 37 plus 274 telematics votes, 311; abstentions, 2 plus 12 telematics votes, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u89	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals submitted by the Basque Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 303 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 24 plus 157 telematics votes, 181; against, 17 plus 133 telematics votes, 150; abstentions, 5 plus 13 telematics votes, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u90	They're approved. Vote on the proposals submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 303 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 2 plus 11 telematics votes, 13; against, 30 plus 215 telematics votes, 245; abstentions, 14 plus 77 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u91	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 303 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 7 plus 23 telematics votes, 30; against, 35 plus 274 telematics votes, 309; abstentions, 4 plus 6 telematics votes, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u92	They're rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 303 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 7 plus 17 telematics votes, 24; against, 36 plus 279 telematics votes, 315; abstentions, 3 plus 7 telematics votes, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u93	They're rejected. Voting on the proposal submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 46 plus 303 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 7 plus 24 telematics votes, 31; against, 37 plus 279 telematics votes, 316; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u94	It's rejected. Voting on the proposals put forward by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs, to the request for an extension of the state of alarm. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 46 plus 303 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 6 plus 23 telematics votes, 29; against, 37 plus 275 telematics votes, 312; abstentions 3 plus 5 telematics votes, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u95	They're rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that from now on, about 16:34, and until 18:00, the authorization for the extension of the state of alarm can be voted on by telematics. We shall therefore suspend the sitting during this period of time and the vote on this item will take place once we have resumed it. The meeting was suspended until 6:15 p.m. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended at four and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 6.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Let us proceed directly to the vote. Vote on the request for authorisation of the extension of the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the situation of health crisis caused by COVID-19, extended by Royal Decree 476/2020 of 27 March, 487/2020 of 10 April and 492/2020 of 24 April, in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the proposals of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 46 plus 304 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 22 plus 156 telematics votes, 178; against, 10 plus 65 telematics votes, 75; abstentions, 14 plus 83 telematics votes, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-06-CD200506.u97	The extension of the state of alarm, which will be published in the State Official Gazette, is therefore authorised. The meeting rose. It was six and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
