ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies is meeting to comply with the provisions of Article 99.3 of the Constitution and to submit to a second vote the proposal of candidate Don Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón for the presidency of the Government. The session will begin with a pre-vote debate, which, given that the Constitution imposes a period of 48 hours, will not take place before 12:45 p.m. In accordance with Rule 171.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the candidate may intervene for a maximum of ten minutes and the parliamentary groups for five minutes each to determine their position. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Government in office, put to the stand.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-in common May-Galicia in common and of some of the Plural Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In the last four years Spain has lacked a full-fledged government for a total of one and a half years. A country without Government with full powers is a country without tools to address its problems and to address future challenges. It is therefore unacceptable that such a situation should be repeated in the future. That is why, once this meeting is concluded, it will be a good time to look for mechanisms to ensure that this vacuum that we have experienced will not happen again. I would like to express my commitment and that of the Socialist Group to seek with the various groups formulas to facilitate in the future the formation of majorities of government vis-à-vis majorities of blockage. [[Applauds]] Without Parliament there can be no democratic government, but without elected government there can be no parliament indefinitely. And without elected government and without parliament, it is clear that our democratic system is seriously affected. In short, it is unacceptable that such a situation should be repeated in the future, but it is even more unacceptable that such a situation should be extended one more day in our country. The Spanish and Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, have fulfilled their obligation to vote and have done so not once, but five times in a year, and our first duty is to give them what they have voted for, which is a government, and more precisely when that government that is proposed is in accordance with their will. Last Saturday I explained what could be the result that would occur in the first vote of this investiture on Sunday. I said in text that at the end of these investiture sessions there would be a vote and that vote would express three positions: on the one hand, the Spain that wants to move forward, which transcends its differences, as we have done various parliamentary groups over the last few weeks, and joins in order to move forward forming a coalition of progress, dialogue and social justice; on the other hand, there are those who do not want to join that advance, but at least they do not prevent it thanks to their abstention; and on the other hand there is a curious, varied coalition, in which there are from the far right anti-system parties and also the most intransigent nationalisms of one sign or another. It is Spain that blocks, without alternative, without solution, without horizon, without answer, only not and only blockade. [[Rumors]] Well, that's what happened last Sunday. That is why I am appearing again today, as provided for in our Constitution, to ask for the majority confidence of the House, representing the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which won the elections and is the first political force in this Congress, and on behalf of the progressive coalition that I propose to the House. This coalition alone, unprecedented in the democratic history of our country, is an effort to unite wills; it adds up to one hundred and fifty-five seats and can also obtain sufficient support to become the only possible option of government. It is important to underline this, to stress it, ladies and gentlemen, it is the only possible option of government after five elections, two general elections in the last year. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Nor do I know why the bench on the right is so, because it was clear last Thursday and today it must be even clearer after listening to the various groups: there is no other option of government. [[Rumors]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is the option that won the victory in the last elections on November 10th and also in the four elections that took place throughout 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, five elections with the same result are not a coincidence, it is called democracy and it means the expression of the will of the people. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The first principle of a democracy is to accept the result of the ballot box, to accept the composition of Parliament. No other force, ladies and gentlemen, can offer a government for Spain, except the Socialist Party. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, there are a large number of Members who deserve our respect, even though we have been insulted during the days of the investiture. Ladies and gentlemen, your high number of Members is so heterogeneous that they only share one thing: the blockade, the no. Therefore, the disjunctive to which we are subject today with your vote is the following: either progressive coalition or more blockade for Spain. Or progressive coalition or more blockade for Spain, and I hope that the parliamentary majority of Congress will opt for a progressive coalition. [[Applauds]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand in particular the opposition of the conservative forces, I understand their frustration, if they have tried everything. They have tried it in five elections and have failed; they have tried it again in this House and they will not succeed either; if a majority supports the investiture, the blockade will break down and they will therefore fail again. [[Applauds]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that they have changed their arguments over time to justify the blockade, but the real reason has always been the same, let us not be mistaken. They say that the abstention of Squerra Republicana is unacceptable; before they said that the formation of a government with the United We can in, but they did not previously accept a government of the Socialist Party alone when they were able to allow it with their abstention. [[several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress pointing out with their finger: You, you!]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Rumors]] I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u4	They've been changing, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u5	I pray silently. [[Mr García Eggea utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. García Aegean, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u6	They've been changing, ladies and gentlemen, on the pretext... [[Mr. Matarí Sáez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u7	Mr. Matarí, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u8	The Congress of Deputies, like the Constitution and Spain, is not yours, it is of all those present here. [[Applauds]] Respect the speaker on the floor, have a bit of a democratic level, ladies and gentlemen. This House is not yours. You've been changing pretexts to buy time. [[Laughter]] Yes, but the reason was always the same: either they rule the right or there is no government in Spain. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] You have strained and strained the situation to see if there was a new opportunity anywhere. It is already, they have not succeeded, it has not worked, a progressive coalition will govern in Spain because it has been decided by the Spanish and because it will be decided by the parliamentary majority in this House. [[Applauds]] I therefore understand the contradiction of the conservative forces and their frustration, but I ask you to accept the reality: you have lost the elections and are going to lose the vote today. And when they get to this point they can do two things: either to remain indefinitely in the lurch or to accept the result. I recommend that you do the second thing, that you accept the democratic outcome that comes out of this House. It does not compensate you to remain in the lurch indefinitely, ladies and gentlemen; to begin with, because it damages something very important in our country that is called coexistence; to continue, it is not good for your own voters, those who are going to spread a rift that has no reason to be; and to end, it is not good even for you because nothing positive can be built from frustration and bitterness. It is therefore preferable for them to accept the election result. There will be a progressive coalition because it has been decided by the Spanish and the parliamentary majority of the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the minimum wage is going to rise to more decent levels, that resources are going to be mobilized for families at risk of poverty. It is also true that some Spaniards, of the most wealthy, will have to contribute a little more to welfare by paying more taxes, but I tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, that is something that will only affect one in two hundred taxpayers in our country. It must not be assumed that all those concerned will refuse to contribute in solidarity to the public coffers. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises will see their tax burden reduced. It is true that we are going to protect the rights of workers, that we are going to avoid abuses and, to the extent of our possibilities, we are going to tackle the precarious work that many workers in our country are suffering, but that does not harm anyone, let alone entrepreneurs, who in the vast majority base their companies' productivity on innovation, training and employee motivation, which is precisely what we are going to encourage. It is true that we will try to restore social rights in education, in health, in dependence, in pensions, in order to further strengthen our cause for real and effective equality between men and women; rights that have been recuperated during the years of the People's Party government. We will even try to extend these rights to early education, scholarships, with new benefits such as oral health in the National Health System, as well as the right to housing. But that should not bother anyone, ladies and gentlemen; neither should the conservative voters you represent, since they also have children who study, also sick, also need a roof and also age. All Spaniards will be able to benefit from these new rights because they are rights for all and for all. It is true that all Spaniards will see their freedom widened to express themselves, to associate themselves, to live their lives according to their values and beliefs, without gag laws, without illegalizing political parties or closing the media, as some political forces in our country say. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had 40 years of democracy. Rights such as divorce, abortion or homosexual marriage had already arrived, and no one had been forced to exercise them; they simply sought greater freedom and well-being for those who had chosen to exercise those rights. [[Applauds]] It is true that we must all adapt our modes of production, consumption, transport and life to the fight against the climate emergency and that we must assume other habits that make it possible to protect our air, our waters, our forests and, ultimately, our biodiversity, but we will do so by ensuring a just transition to a new energy model in which no one is harmed. All of us, without distinction of ideologies, ladies and gentlemen, will benefit from cleaner air, cleaner waters and a more sustainable planet. [[Several Members: Ooooh!-Rumors]] It is true that our compatriots living in large areas at risk of depopulation will receive greater attention, but that step does not distinguish one or another ideology and will benefit everyone equally. It is also true that we will live a time of dialogue, of a dialogue necessary in our country to overcome territorial disputes, but we will always do so within the Constitution and ensuring integrity and differences on the basis of respect and working for the common good. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u9	Mr. Candidate, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, just as these changes will drive others into science, research, culture, infrastructure, the digital revolution, the primary sector and job creation. And if I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, about this debate of investiture, it is that the conservative opposition has received very little attention from the proposals we make in these and many other areas. I believe that these and other matters affecting and of interest to millions of Spaniards have been adversely affected by this debate as a result of their warming and exaltation over the past week. [[Applauds]] In any case, I hope that it will be possible to clear this toxic climate to which we do not want and which we will not contribute at all. [[Several Members: Noo!-Rumors]] We will strive to create a constructive climate that helps to overcome differences and not to find them. I am confident that, beyond this parliamentary procedure which is essential for a government and for democracy to function fully, it will be possible to overcome the atmosphere of irritation and friction that you have brought to this House and that we can regain a space for understanding, for consensus and for the agreements that our country needs and that our fellow citizens demand. Allow me to express this with the words of a fellow countryman of good in whom I believe we can recognize all those who aspire to democratic coexistence. The President of the Republic, Manuel Azaña, said: It will be verified once again... Yes, the President of the Republic, Don Manuel Azaña. [[Several Members: Take!-Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Azaña said: It will be verified once again what should never have been unknown, that we are all children of the same sun and tributaries of the same river. [[Rumors]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, also in the words of Don Manuel Azaña, no one has the right to monopolize patriotism. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. In my speech the other day I said this: all I humbly ask of you is that you think of the people who see us from their homes. Go up to this rostrum and present an alternative vision to the program that I have set forth, defend it with passion and the conviction that your conscience dictates to you and vote according to your criteria, but I beg you not to contribute with our words to the feeling of coexistence. We do not move from this rostrum more division to the street, more discord to the families, more disagreement to the companies as well. That, ladies and gentlemen, is patriotism too. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government in office, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u11	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I want to begin my intervention by claiming our Constitution and the highest authority of the State and symbol of the unity and historical continuity of Spain, our King Don Philip VI. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group.- A Member: Long live the King!- Various Members: Long live!- A Member: Long live the King!- Various Members: Long live!]] And I want to deal with the attacks he suffered in this House by the radicals who support the candidacy of Pedro Sánchez. I also want to pay tribute to all the victims of terrorism who were outraged before yesterday, because they are the protagonists in the history of our freedom; they are white-handed heroes who stood up to an entire nation that some thought asleep, and this forces us to defend their legacy against anyone who claims to harm what they died for, which was Spain's freedom. [[applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.-Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]] To hear the albaceas of ETA speak of authoritarianism, of terror or of the last train, in a hemicycle in which we only fit half of the number of people they murdered, produces an infinite nausea, as yesterday denounces José María Múgica, familiar of one of their victims and, by the way, also of those of the trains - the Nazis -, not to which the spokesman of Bildu referred. Mr Sánchez, Spanish democracy has had two great enemies, the terrorists and the coups, but today it has put our future in their hands at the cost of dismembering the state and liquidated constitutional socialism. When it is only intended to resist at any price, it ends up paying the highest price so as to resist, as well as becoming the Trojan horse that targets the Government of Spain that have been conjured up this week to destroy it as we know it so far. The Spanish cannot be taken hostage to guarantee the votes of their investiture or the rule of law as a currency of change for their pathological personal ambition. Today he comes here for the sixth time having failed the previous five and with fewer seats than any other president. But in addition, what is being put to the vote today is not the government that elected the Spaniards in the polls, but exactly the opposite, because you forced an electoral repetition with the solemn commitment not to depend on the ultra-left, the separatists and the Batasuns. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And today, Mr Sánchez, you bring them to us as partners, without giving a single explanation for your massive deception to the Spanish voters. He lied knowing that if he told the truth, he would lose the election. That is the stigma with which this government is born against Spain, the most radical in our history. During that investiture session we had to listen to one of your future ministers praising the most criminal ideology in the history of humanity, which killed eighty million people in a few decades, and I do not say so, as the archives of the communist regimes of the Soviet Union, China or Cambodia, among others, say. [[Rumors]] We have also had to witness an indirect blackmail of a party whose leader is in prison condemned for sedition, demanding the demolition of the rule of law and national sovereignty through a table of governments, equal to equal, self-determination, a referendum only in Catalonia and amnesty for seditious criminals. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] And the terrible thing, Mr Sánchez, is that you have agreed to remain in the government at the price of changing the regime, that is, of overflowing the system of 78, and not because it doesn't work, but because it works, and very well, against your partners, who have betrayed it systematically. [[Applauds]] When he talks about the coexistence of sovereignty, he is assuming that it is worth bringing national unity to the break-up room, so as to remain in power. When he speaks of judicial drift through the ruling of the statute and the trial, he is putting the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court on the line. When he talks about legal gimmicks and tricks and the de-judicialization of political conflict, he is taking the sword away from justice to stick it behind his back to the separation of powers. It is tremendous that you assume a contradiction between democracy and legality, when without the rule of law there cannot be democracy and when the law is the price of freedom and freedom is the prize of the law. In democracy we vote to make laws that protect our rights, but we cannot vote to leave anyone without their rights. You should know that there is no more legitimate power than that conferred by the laws, but nationalism seeks to make your crime its source of law and power, and you have consented to it to remain in power. [[Applauds]] In Spain, Mr Sánchez, there is no greater exception to democracy than that represented by his ultra partners, because ultra is the one that violates legality, equality, tolerance, private property, the free market, individual and press freedom, and all that is against what his allies want to attack. Ultra is the one that goes beyond the limits, and you have not stopped doing so. Ultra is you and everyone who supports you. The habit does not make the monk and his dress as moderate has fallen with all his lies. [[Applause.- Various Members: Good!]] Mr. Sanchez, your only homeland is you. This week we finally discovered what was inside that Russian doll: the most radical partners who never dreamed of participating in the governance of Spain, the most opposed to the progressives they preach, the most sectarians. To the future of the Socialist Party it would be better to honor without government than to rule without honor, but you have already crossed the Rubicon, you have already deserted your constitutional obligations. No one's ever dared this much. He has preferred to become the straw man of nationalism rather than a man of state. We have had 40 years of integrative efforts, but nationalism has already made it clear, obscenely, that it is not about integration but about disintegration. That is why we neither accept the nationalist threat nor accept socialist surrender. And we will also combat the worrying populist cantonalization that brings us back to our worst nineteenth-century history, breaking solidarity and equality between Spaniards. Either we save what is of all or no one will save what is of them. There can be no more if there is less Spain, however much you promise what you don't have to the parties that have wanted to do business with your investiture. But now the dilemma will have you: if you meet your anti-system partners you will break Spain and, if not, you will be thrown out. That is the only hope of millions of Spaniards, who deceive their allies just as he did with all the voters and so his Government lasts little. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u13	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u14	To finish everyone knows that it will not end well and history will not acquit him, as requested in his allegation by the fetish dictator of his government partner. I'm finishing up. Mr Sánchez, what should be unacceptable to you even is that your far-left partners speak of the Constitution as a lock, when it is the key to coexistence, is the way for those who abide by the law and the wall for those who attack it. When she is more comfortable with those who attack her than with those who obey her, she is no longer a constitutionalist. The Constitution we defend is that of 2020, born in 1978, but it is ours, that of today. We don't just talk about our history; we talk about our freedom here and now. If we lose it we do not lose a memory, we lose our citizenship, our rights, our political dignity; we lose our voice and our vote; we lose our coexistence, our place in the world and our future. Dialogue cannot be invoked to destroy the antonomasy dialogue that is our Constitution. We have already dialogued, already reconciled, already fixed the rules of the game, already made Spanish democracy and already made possible the coexistence of all those who wanted to live together. You don't have to do it again; you just have to keep it, you don't ask for much. The Transition was not a pact of people who forgot, but repented, both of them, and in doing so they regained the freedom, coexistence and progress that we can all enjoy today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u15	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u16	I'm done. We will never propose that fear change sides because we have no side, because two sides are not an entire country, but a country torn apart. What we saw this week in the Chamber is scary. [[Several Members: Yes, yes.-Rumors]] One of his associates came to say that they were not alone in being the good image of the Popular Front. But what kind of madness is this?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now that he quotes Azaña, remember that he said: I tolerate them attacking the Republic, but I will never tolerate them attacking Spain. [[Several Members: Ole! Good!-Mr. García Aegean: Point out!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some standing positions]] I'm done. Mr Sánchez, you cannot pretend to rule against the Spanish media or commit the irresponsibility to recover the ghosts of the past. Do not pervert the true historical memory of Spain; a history of reconciliation, generosity, tolerance and shared ambition, which has been an example for the world. Neither barricaded nor trenched; wide street and open square, because we want to live together, but within the law, which guarantees us freedom, without fear and without anger. For this we will lead a national regrouping of the constitutionalists who do not want to return to that naphthalinated Spain that you are invoking. We will build a new social majority that can also house the Social Democrats orphaned by the drift of'sanchism', who prefer reform to rupture, harmony to confrontation, equality to privilege, progress to paralysis and freedom to sectarianism. [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u17	Mr. Married, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u18	I'm done. There is already a generation of Spaniards who have barely known the good times of their country, but they must know that the one who mortgages their future, sends them to unemployment and leaves them without opportunities is Sánchez, not Spain. We want to conquer a Spain with projects and illusions, to which at once good things begin to happen without the left always coming to ruin them. [[Rumors]] We want a Spain that does not worry about political conflicts, but guarantees employment and pensions; that does not work for its fragmentation, but to be admired in the world; that does not engage in class, gender or religion struggle, but rather in living together in peace and security. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] We want to make the good times of Spain come true again, and very soon we will be able to recover the dream of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Bravo! All right!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.-Applause from several Members of the Joint Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u19	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some Members of the European Parliament speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u20	Thank you, Madam President. In view of some of the barbarities and infamy that have been said in this Chamber over the past few days, I would like to begin this intervention - if I may - by condemning the disgusting murder that a man committed yesterday against his wife and his three-year-old daughter. [[rumors]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] And I want to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that with a law of domestic violence there would never be more victims of second and all the components of the family, including this girl, would be equally protected and the aggressors would be equally punished. [[rumors]] By the way, according to our proposal, with life imprisonment for murderers and sexual criminals. [[Applauds]] I say this because, ladies and gentlemen, in VOX, we are concerned about all victims, regardless of their age, their status, their sex and the perpetrator of the crimes. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, even if you are surprised and some do not understand, we are concerned about all the victims. For others, however, victims are only important when the author is male and Spanish. And they're going to allow me just to respond to what has been said here these days to review what we've been doing this year. January 1st: Arrested a herd of seven Maghrebs for sexual assault in Pamplona. January one: three Afghans rape three girls in Murcia. One January: a Colombian sexually assaults a 16-year-old child in Lugo. One January: an unknown man rapes and pacifies until he leaves a 20-year-old girl in Almería in a coma. January 3rd: a group of Guineans sexually assaults a girl in Teruel - for this, Teruel does not exist, ladies and gentlemen -. January 4th: A Pakistani man was arrested for sexually abusing a 14-year-old girl in Barcelona. And it could go forward and also backward to tell the children who have died, unfortunately, at the hands of their mothers during this month of December. Ladies and gentlemen, in twenty hours of debate there has not been a single second employee in this House to denounce the plague of herd rapes committed in the first days of this year, mainly by foreigners. [[Applauds]] If you keep hiding it, ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to solve it; if you're just busy demonizing VOX, we're not going to solve it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is useless for you to conceal, because it is public data, that 69% of all males accused of group rapes have been foreigners, despite being only 10% of the population. Gentlemen of the PSOE, the three Moroccans who sexually assaulted a young woman in Seville are already at large. Gentlemen of Podemos, the group of Afghans - refugees, by the way - who raped three young people these days in Murcia are already at large. When's the demonstration? Where's your indignation? Or does reality spoil your obsessions and your ideological laws? [[Applauds]] But let us go back to what we are dealing with here - although this also concerns us, because it is one of the most powerful reasons why we are not going to give to the government that intends to leave today - let us go back to the marriage between the lie and the betrayal that is going to engender and will give birth today to the government of Pedro Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, the convicted offender, the rebel Torra, has not yet been removed or arrested. The government is still looking at the other side because it needs the permission of the coupsmen today, as long as Belgium suspends the Euroorder and the European Parliament again humiliates us, because Mr Sánchez - who I do not know if today he will laugh at the socialist bench, squeeze the jaw or turn his gaze - wants to preside or, rather, he wants to co-chair an illegitimate government, because from lies and brutal fraud to the Spaniards only illegitimacy can be born. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] A government, ladies and gentlemen, which has used the institutions for the investiture, because normally the elections are won and the government is reached and the institutions are governed, but Mr Sánchez first came to the government and used the institutions to win the elections. [[Applauds]] A government integrated and co-chaired de facto by communists with close links with dictatorships, with narco-terrorist characters and with theocracies. By the way, it already seems that in Bolivia they want to call on them to state what their relations with those Governments have been. [[Applauds]] A government kneeling before deputies who did not deserve to have been accredited in this House because they have conjured against it, this House, the seat of national sovereignty and the Constitution. A government that counts, ladies and gentlemen, with the satisfaction of ETA and that will - I have no doubt - involve the completion of the pacts and the talks initiated between PSOE and ETA more than twenty years ago, and that can only end in whitewashing, impunity and referendum. [[applause]] Mr. Sanchez, you've been very safe here today and I understand, you're very secure. We saw yesterday how Bildu's spokesperson presented his contingency plan...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u21	Mr. Abascal, you'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u22	I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. We saw yesterday how the representative of Bildu presented the contingency plan, in case any socialist or other group deputy had an attack of dignity, and that is why you are very assured. What many Spaniards did not know is that the insurance company of the investiture, that is, of the institutional coup that you are giving, is called ETA. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you have quoted Mr Azaña here, and we have thought the same thing Mr Casado and I - which I think we have read better than you to the President of the Republic -, yes, because the President of the Republic, Mr Azaña, said on July 18, 1936 - to encourage his people who did not want to respond to the uprising - the following: I tolerate you, I permit, I admit that you do not care about the Republic, but I do not tolerate you, I permit or admit that you do not care about Spain, because the sense of the homeland is not a myth. And you, ladies and gentlemen, don't care about Spain, you care about the new regime and you care about socialist power; you're more of Largo Caballero and Negrin. By the way, here Largo Caballero tells us well how in Paris, with the money that Stalin gave him, with the money of the Spaniards and the Bank of Spain, they dedicated themselves to doing what it seems that it is already socialist tradition with the money of all: to be accompanied - in the words of Mr.Largo Caballero, not mine - by women with whom they had no family relationship. [[shows a book]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Madam President - at this moment of extreme concern, at this moment of perplexity, of gloomyness and indignation I join the sentiment of millions of Spaniards and of many Members of different groups in this House saying: Long live the King and live Spain! [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Long live!]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Alive!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u23	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Turrion Churches has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can-in common, we can-Galicia in common, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, stood up.- Several Members speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us continue the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Aina, for being here. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Plural, Republican, Euskal Herria Bildu and of the members of the government in office, standing, addressed to Mrs Vidal Sáez]] I would also like to pay tribute from this rostrum to the memory of the murdered woman and girl. I liked it, Mr Abascal, that you made a reference to the beginning and I hope that during this parliamentary term we will make it clear to you that it is very difficult to defend the rights of all citizens from sexism and racism. I hope you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a specific violence that affects women because they are women. [[Applauds]] I have a message for you, Mr. Married, and for you, Mr.Abascal, who wrote to me on my mobile a moment ago Rosa Lluch, daughter of Ernest Lluch, murdered by ETA: Do not speak on behalf of the victims of terrorism. Many of us have been committed to dialogue and reconciliation, not hatred. Stop using our pain for your benefit. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, on the ground]] I had written down in this speech some notes to talk about the programme, to talk about the challenges of the next Government in terms of the reconstruction of rights and the conquest of new rights, but after the deployment of authoritarianism and the lack of institutional respect for their interventions I want to say other things. First of all, an appreciation: if you want to defend the monarchy, avoid that the monarchy identify with you because if something knew Juan Carlos I, who came from where he came and was king for what he was king, is that only by moving away from the right the institution could survive. [[applause]] Perhaps, paradoxically, you have become the greatest threat to the monarchy in Spain. It's a matter of intelligence. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I want to send a message to the people who are listening to us, a message to women: the next government will work to ensure all the social conquests of women and to achieve new conquests. I want to send a message also to gays, lesbians, to the whole LGBTBI collective: the next government is going to work so that they can freely love those who want them and that they can organize their families as they want them to. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo! Bravo!]] I want to send a message to the migrants: the next Government will defend the human rights and dignity of all those who, fleeing poverty and war, have come to work with us. [[Applauds]] A message also for the compatriots who had to be exiled for economic reasons: the next government will work so that, if they want, they can return to Spain. [[Applauds]] A message also for all compatriots, be Catalan, Basque, Andalusian, from the Canary Islands, wherever they are, who live their territorial identity with freedom: the next government will defend their languages, their institutions and their freedom to be excited by the symbols they want. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And finally, a message, ladies and gentlemen, for the working people: the next government will defend the material conditions of freedom, because there is no freedom, ladies and gentlemen, if it is not reached by the end of the month, because there is no freedom without a public health system that assures the principals, the best health professionals that everyone will be cared for regardless of the neighborhood in which he was born, because there is no freedom without a public school, without a public university that ensures that everyone can study independently of the neighborhood in which he was born. [[rumors.-Applause.]] Pedro, they're not going to attack us for what we do, they're going to attack us for who we are. I'm asking you, as president, two things. The first, facing the intolerants, the provocateurs and those who want to bring Spain to the past, you have the best tone. The second, that you also have the greatest democratic firmness. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Members of the Socialist Party (Christian Democrats) and Members of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and Members of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and Members of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) Group (Christian Democrats) and Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) - Mr Iglesias Turrion shakes the hand of Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón. - Some Members of the European Parliament: President, President!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not know whether it is necessary for you to present here today the reasons why we cannot vote in favour of your investiture, Mr Sánchez. He is faced with the paradox of needing the vote of independenceists without wanting it, because he would have preferred not to need it. But as a good Marxist, even though you were wrong about Marx, you have some principles, but when it's not right for you, you have others. Since June 2017, do you know how many times we've heard you change your speech about Catalonia? Half a dozen times. So it becomes difficult to know what you think about the most important political problem on the table. But they have a double measuring rod. Yesterday, in the noisy spectacle we witnessed here, freedom of expression was brought. The president of our Parliament, Carme Forcadell, is in prison for allowing her. Under normal circumstances I would use these two minutes to remind you of the grievances that the State continues to accumulate against Catalonia, but the circumstances have nothing normal and you were a proactive and indispensable part of implementing the 155, with which everything began. We will not contribute to the investiture of a Spanish president when the political-judicial architecture of the state is trying to remove our president, Quim Torra, from the presidency. Unfortunately, there is no separation of powers in Spain, and you know it very well. If it was not for the exercise of repression, let it be neither to avoid it. We cannot vote against Catalonia and in favour of repression. Yesterday was Epiphany Day. Certainly, as President Puigdemont said, the epiphany of a political-judicial collapse. [[Show a document]] Despite its opposition, the European Parliament recognises President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras and Councillor Toni Comín as MEPs with effect from 2 July 2019. [[Applauds]] And Spain, which claims to be so democratic and so guaranteeing, does not comply with Catalonia or with Europe. I'm done. Correct it, because it is you who circulate in the opposite direction on the road of law, but fate is the nullity of a trial and sentence built since the violation of fundamental rights, also in this House with our colleagues. If kings bring him an investiture, he must move from words, from dialogue, to facts. It is to be seen whether it is by conviction or by pure instinct of political survival. If it is not cosmetic proposals, Mr Sánchez, if it is about working for Catalonia, we will be there. Meanwhile, free Oriol Junqueras, do not violate any more rights, open up to democracy and ask yourself how much justice you will be able to take on. We, in spite of everything and with much opposition, as demanding independenceists, not as intransigent nationalists, will continue to push with hope, without fear and with firmness. Democracy, freedom and progress in your country and in ours are at stake.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u27	Mrs. Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u28	We are convinced, Madam President, that by persisting and resisting we will succeed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.- Mrs Borràs Castanyer delivers a document to Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u30	Three things in a minute. First of all, Aina, a lot of strength and courage because you're gonna win this fight, too. [[Applauds]] Secondly, this Government, which is born today, has our support, with the indispensable support of More Country. I have to say that this Government should have been born four years ago, under much better conditions and avoiding much wear and tear along the way. But it is never too late if happiness is good and this is a great historic opportunity. Congratulations on the agreement and thank you very much, Mr Sánchez; congratulations on the agreement and thank you very much, Paul. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] It's just that I can't congratulate you on anything, but when I get a chance, I congratulate you on something. [[Addressing the ladies and gentlemen sitting in the seats on the right of the Chamber]] [[Laughter]] We are going to support this investiture, but during the debate we have seen a risk. This government that is born today, which has a historic opportunity, cannot be a government against the right. It cannot be bought on the right hand side of the picture that there is a gap in our country and that our country is divided by half. Spain is not divided by half, it is divided by inequality and, therefore, the first task of the Government must be to eliminate the conditions that have made hate policy possible. First came neoliberalism, first came precariousness, first came uncertainty, the breakdown of social ties, the belief that politics served nothing, and then came the reactionaries. Therefore, the work of this Government must necessarily be to eliminate the conditions of hate policy, rebuild the community, rebuild the country, balance the balance and lead the ecological transition with social justice. If that is the way, have no doubt that they will find us, that we will accompany them and that we will assume this Government as our Government. Thank you so much. [[Mr Errejón Galván shakes the hand of Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u31	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u32	Mr. Abascal, forgive me for insisting, in the sight of the screams. When he was charging 83,000 euros from a little chiringuito for doing nothing, did he do it for God, for Spain, for the king? Who were you doing it for? [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, Compromís fulfills; we fulfill the other day, we will fulfill today, do not have the slightest doubt, and we will fulfill by helping governability and to install all this series of measures. Let us hope that this document which you have signed will also be complied with, that is, what we agreed in August: that in eight months we would have a new model on the table to start discussing. [[rumors]] I hope that some of these measures will begin to be implemented in the next General State Budgets. I trust, sincerely, that it will be so. [[Rumors]] Gentlemen, I was wrong about the lime, I confess. [[Laughter]] You don't need lime, you need one thing that happens in schools: education! Education! [[Applauds]] I am a school teacher and if I had to explain what bad education and intolerance are, I would have put a video of what happened here on Sunday morning. [[rumors]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Two, I am a teacher of Physical Education and teach boys and girls to win, but I teach them, above all, to lose. [[rumors]] Learn to lose, resign, and win! [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Comú Ponde-Galicia in common, stand up.- Mr Baldoví Roda shakes the hand of Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u33	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I want to start by saying that I will vote not because, above my personal and political interests and above my party's interests are those of the Canary Islands and those of this country. [[applause]] Having said that, I would like to apologize to my political organization. I have been a militant woman for twenty-five years and I should have looked for a way that my party had previously known what my vote in conscience and my individual decision was, that I had done it in the party organs and not in the ways that I did it. I would like to apologize to the comrades of my political organization for having been the subject of infamous attacks in the last few hours, as have my colleagues in the Plural Group, Tomás Guitarte, Teruel Existe, and Pedro Quevedo, and other colleagues in the Socialist Group. Those who tell me today that I am a brave, a Joan of Arc, are those who a week ago called me everything, sold and corrupt. We don't even have to grow up for those who when... I'm neither a facsimile nor these PSOE people nor those who vote for Podemos are with the terrorists. What's going on? We can't contribute to this. Dignity. We are here because the citizens, those of Bildu, those of Esquerra, those of Junts per Cat, me, those of the PP and those of the PSOE. Let's not all contribute to what those radicals call us, that when you say what they like you're God and when you don't, you're the devil. I'm a simple Member of Parliament and I apologize to my organization and my party partners for not keeping my forms. Neither my party partners nor the MPs of the PSOE nor anyone deserve what's going on in the last few hours. What I ask is that, among all of us, we be able to regain tolerance and respect for what we all think. We are neither transfugas nor vendettas nor terrorists nor traitors. We are simply people who, based on their ideals, principles and conscience, make a decision today. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. I now give the floor to Mr Quevedo Iturbe.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u36	Thank you, Madam President. First consideration of those of the messengers and such questions. Baldoví recommends tila and I, as a doctor, recommend Valium. [[Laughter]] It's quite useful. Mr. Abascal, don't be submissive, I think you told me. I am that I listen to you little - for health reasons - but I only submit to my ideas, to what my party commands and to what I believe are the interests of my people. It's good that you keep it in mind for the future. [[Applauds]] That way you won't be wrong anymore. We're gonna do what we said the other day. Either there is a government here today or there is a political bloc, or there is a government here today or there will be third elections and then there will be a contest to see whose fault it is, to see if we cheat on someone and blame the other. Therefore, this serious decision that is being taken today only benefits those who have been suffering from the conditions of the political blockade, the general interests of the Spanish State, the people, the social majority and the Canary Islands, which is particularly dependent on a fair budget and an agreement such as I believe we have signed with the Socialist Party. We are sure that we will honour that agreement and that will be noticed by those who have to notice it, the social majority. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u37	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Galicia will stop loathing for its freedom when it conquers. These are the words of Castelao, the nationalist leader and the highest referent of the struggle for freedom of our nation, who died in exile as a result of fascist barbarism today seventy years ago, on January 7, 1950, and who defended Galicia with ardour and democracy, also in this rostrum, in the Courts of the Republic. Today, at this moment, in this context, defending Galicia and democracy leads us to vote yes in the investiture. Firstly, because we have reached an agreement on the Galician allocation, a great agreement that will enable us to make progress in improving the quality of life and well-being of all Galicians and Galicians. Secondly, because in front of this increasingly ultra- and ultra-Spanishist right, which threatens the rights and freedoms of all, there are no hesitations. It is necessary to shut him down decisively. Let them be clear that, with the same firmness with which Castelao fought fascism, the BNG will always stand up for democracy, public rights and freedoms, and we hope and demand that same firmness of the new Government. For this reason too, our vote will be in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u39	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I will summarise. We are being asked to support a government and a legislature that will last whatever it wants and will suit the Republican Left. That's what you've said here and you've admitted it without hesitation. We are asked for a blank cheque so that what a PSOE-We can agree, without counting the rest of the parties, and the Generalitat, is submitted to a referendum in Catalonia without the participation of the rest of the Spanish. Mr Sánchez, this is not only not democratic, it is a very serious irresponsibility and endangers the state of autonomy. I do not know if you realize what this means for the image of Spain and our institutions, the deterioration that this can mean for the image of Spain in Europe with a government in these conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a government for Spain, but a stable government. We want a stable government for Cantabria; we just want it to fulfil its commitments but without taking advantage of it now, not at any cost. He told me Saturday that he didn't understand me. It's very simple. We agree that there is a dialogue table for Catalonia. If what the Spanish Government agrees we will vote for it by all Spaniards, I would vote yes; if they only vote in Catalonia, I would vote no. We haven't changed. Our position anticipated it here in July; we fixed it in the election campaign, I reminded it during the negotiations and we keep it now. And, finally, I will tell you that this does not respond to a personal decision of anyone, it is a political decision democratically taken by the executive of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen - it is obvious, but I want to say it - what I am going to say today, at this moment, is the position of the Teruel Voter Group There is, not my personal position. We will fulfill what we said repeatedly during the election campaign; during the election campaign we said that we would support the candidate who was able to attract greater support in his person - and we will do so - and that we would do so according to various criteria. First, to unblock a situation that we considered that citizenship did not allow for any longer. Secondly, institutional responsibility. And, thirdly, because we want a government to take action now, measures that we, as I said in my previous speech, urgently need, such as the Just Transition Convention for the thermal power plant in Andorra. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u44	All these criteria are conditioned by the willingness to seek and apply solutions to the problem that we have been denouncing both the province of Teruel and the whole that we have called empty Spain. We believe it is time for the Spanish State to take this problem seriously. And all this in turn, as we have repeatedly communicated, with a management that must be developed within the Spanish constitutional framework, as obviously cannot be otherwise. But we also want to say that this support that we are going to give will be followed by the demand for compliance with the agreement that we have signed, an agreement that must not disappoint us because we have already come from the experience of the specific action plan of Teruel made by President Zapatero in 2005, which ended up being frustrated. The Turkic society would not endure a second frustration. We believe it is time to really respond to the demands of Teruel and of emptied Spain. Thank you. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u45	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u46	Good morning. First of all and from the Republican Left of Catalonia, Aina, thank you very much, an immense embrace. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] On a day like yesterday my mother, my sister and I used to give ourselves time, because sharing time - trips, meals, excursions - was the most valuable gift for us, until some supreme judges decided to steal my sister Pains' time. And in time they also stole it from me, my mother, his children, his granddaughter, his nephew and all his friends. Over time we have been robbed of a piece of life, of fun desserts, of existential coffees, of comforting hugs, of birthday parties, of support to a sick family member. Mr. Sánchez, I speak to you as a family member of a Catalan political prisoner. [[Several Members: No!-Protests.-Applause]] I don't know if you have any idea of the pain, anger, and impotence that you have generated in our families, in our families, and in many of the people that, out of dignity, we follow and continue to mobilize. And not only the judges, you too are executioners, because it is in your hands to make and change the laws. [[Rumors]] And if my sister, Dolors Bassa, if Carme Forcadell, Jordi Cuixart, Jordi Sànchez, Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva, Joaquim Forn, Josep Rull, Jordi Turull and the rest of the political prisoners and reprisals of the Spanish state are in jail it is because you want them to be there. [[major protests]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] Because they've been building a false account of violence in Catalonia for years. [[Mr Callejas Cano: Golpista!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u48	Because, as we were shown in October 2017, they prefer to beat and imprison rather than recognize a democratic right, such as that of self-determination. It's not the law, it's you. It's his concept of democracy. I know that half of this Chamber is happy with our pain. [[Protests.- Several Members make negative gestures]] They'd even want it bigger. [[Protests continue.-Several Members of Parliament: No! Let them abide by the law!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u50	That feeling defines his misery and his concept of democracy. [[Several honourable Members: Keep the law!-Mr. García Aegean: Now stand up.-Protest.Applause]] The important question is where the PSOE is. Is the PSOE happy with our pain? Is the PSOE satisfied that they have sentenced my sister and her companions to twelve and thirteen years in prison? [[Protests]] Are you proud of the beatings that the violent police gave to the people we peacefully wanted and intended to vote for? [[Great Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Rumors]] Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u52	Mr. Sánchez, the PSOE has been an accomplice to all this and has been an accomplice to the great lie about violence in Catalonia. [[Mrs. Muñoz Vidal: Leave the mobile!-Protests]] Faced with this, in the face of all the anger generated by injustice and lies, do you think I care about the governability of a Spain that has my sister and my Government in prison and exile? [[Major protests.-A Member of Parliament: Long live the Civil Guard!-Several Members of Parliament speak words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u53	Mrs. Bassa, you have to finish, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u54	Personally - and I say personally - I care a little about the governability of Spain. [[Great protests.-Mr Mirror-Saavedra Conesa: My mother! Are you seeing him?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Protests Continue]] Mr. García Aegean, please! Mr. Homer!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u56	Indignity would make me vote not for an accomplice PSOE in the repression of our people and in the criminalization of protest and our youth. But you know, Mr Sánchez, when I visit, with the fucking crystal, Dolors, Carme, Uriol and Raül always smile at my anger and remind me that we believe in dialogue and that we want to build an independent Catalan republic from the cordiality with Spain. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u57	Mrs. Bassa, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u58	I'm finishing up. And they are right, because we believe in peace and the word in the face of violence and hatred, because we are not like them. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco: Long live the police!-Various Members: Long live!]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u59	Mrs. Vazquez, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u60	President Carme Forcadell claims the need for empathy. And I'll tell you one thing, if we want to solve the conflict...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u61	Mrs Bassa, you have to finish the speech, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u62	...if we want to resolve the political conflict, if we want the dialogue table and negotiation to be fruitful, we need this empathy. Therefore, from the management of anger and impotence, from this necessary empathy, from a great scepticism and fully faithful to a pacifist and feminist ideology that considers that conflicts are resolved by dialogue, today we vote for abstention to give this opportunity to dialogue. And finally, today from this rostrum we demand the immediate release of Oriol Junqueras and the nullity of the sentence. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Parliamentary Group, applause.-Protests.-A Member of Parliament: Long live the Civil Guard!-Various Members: Long live!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u63	Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u64	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to wish Mrs Vidal a speedy recovery; you will get over it and you will get well. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, you have not voted for a single Spanish to do what you are doing here today. You were voted by many Spaniards when they saw you ufano promise that you were going to bring Puigdemont in custody, and what you did next was press the State Attorney to make defense lawyers from Junqueras. You were voted Spaniards when they heard you say you didn't want to make a coalition agreement with Podemos because you couldn't sleep at night and because you didn't want people in the government talking about political prisoners in Spain. Today, you have been impassive as your government partners speak of political prisoners in this country. That's the Sanchez he promised in the campaign and that's the Sanchez that is going to be put to the vote today. Many Spaniards voted for you when you said that you were going to criminalize the illegal referendum and today all Spaniards are seeing how you have given the Republican Left of Catalonia a consultation only in Catalonia while you are saying here clearly and in your face that you care about the governability of Spain. [[Applauds]] Tell them to their faces! They care about a cumin, Mr. Sanchez. You will not only start this legislature with a great lie, but with great fear. And since you speak of Azaña, learn of the mistakes of the past, learn of Azaña when writing about the Generalitat of Companies and saying:... you have lived not only in disobedience, but in frank rebellion and insubordination. As Azaña said about his partners, Mr Sánchez, do not make Spain repeat the same mistakes again. Look, we did propose an alternative. We asked Mr Sánchez to look for other alternative majorities, because there are, just as there were in Europe. You could have isolated the nationalists and the populists and made a broad constitutionalist agreement; a minority agreement, you ruling alone, but with great state agreements that would give stability to this legislature, which is what we are not going to have. We are not going to have stability, we are not going to have a sensible government, and we are certainly not going to have government partners thinking about Spain. We offered this to talk about education, to ensure reforms in employment, innovation, pensions, economic competitiveness. But no, Mr Sánchez has despised the constitutionalist voters and made the separatist voters the ball. You have burned all the bridges with constitutionalism while you remain impassable, while you see how Republican Left of Catalonia insults judges or the king. [[Mr Sánchez Pérez-Castejon is speaking with Mr Ábalos Meco]] I don't know if you're interested in what a constitutionalist group has to say. Would you rather do the ball to the Republican Left of Catalonia, Mr. Sánchez? [[Applauds]] Isn't there a brave vote on that bench? A brave vote like Mrs. Oramas's? Are you saying that Mrs. Oramas has made a tamayazo? [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[Protests.-Several Members: No! No! No!]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u66	Are you insulting Mrs. Oramas by saying she's made a tamayazo? Moreover, are you saying that Mrs Batet, whom you have made president of the Courts, made a 'tamayzo' when the Socialist Party's voting discipline was skipped to vote yes to the referendum of secession? Is that what you're saying? [[Applauds]] They often skip the discipline of voting, skip it once for the equality of all Spaniards, skip it once to ensure coexistence, which only when they skip it do it for inequality and territorial privileges. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u68	You have pressured those who have wanted to try to change the vote. You have told Mrs Oramas, basically, that it is a transfugue. Mr Sánchez has also tried to change the vote of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria. When you call, okay? When you call, are you good pressures? And can't the others appeal to the courage, dignity and consistency of a Member, and dare to say the same now as you said in the debates and in the election campaign before your constituents? One? [[Applauds]] There are many Spaniards very concerned about this government; very concerned about the economy, about putting the economy in the hands of the populists and communist self-recognized; very concerned about the divestments to separatism, because that is inequality for all Spaniards; very concerned about the attacks on institutions, which you not only tolerate but do by attacking the judges. That, Mr Sánchez, is neither progressive nor social democracy nor left. Pacing with Bildu, with the PNV and with Esquerra is inequality, it is nationalism and it is sanchism, it is not progressiveism; it is sanchism, which is what you are voting for today. [[Applauds]] The Head of State, the judges, the symbols, not only exist in Spain, exist in all democratic countries because they are the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of people. When these populists and separatists attack the head of state or the judges, they do so because they know that democracy is weakened, because they know that the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards are weakened, because they know very well that they are the guarantee of equality, union, solidarity, freedom and coexistence in Spain. Sánchez wants to dig trenches, and worst of all, he's going to do it from the government, with resources and with public money. Sanchez needs trenches...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u69	Mrs. Arrimadas, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u70	... needs extremism - I finish, Madam President - because it is the gasoline of the populist and nationalist project of Sánchez. Sánchez wants trenches; the Spaniards have to give him an alternative of common sense. Sánchez wants extremes; we have to give Spain an alternative center. Sánchez wants to talk about issues of the past that divide; we have to give him an alternative that he thinks about in the future. We have to make a project for all Spaniards; just as in the transition that project was led from the center, now more than ever we need center. Just as after Mr Sánchez's coup d'état was won by the nationalists from the centre, we now need centre. And finally, Madam President, I want to send a message of hope. These sanitation partners have been trying for decades to break our country, tell us how to think or weaken the institutions, and they have failed; they will not succeed now. Today more than ever we need equality for the Spaniards. Today more than ever we need moderation, common sense and respect for our institutions. Today more than ever we need to remember that, fortunately, Spain is much more than sanchismo and the Members who are unable to maintain consistency with what they were saying in the campaign.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u71	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u72	Today more than ever, as the head of state said, it is necessary to trust Spain, its democracy and its institutions. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, candidate, I believe that many of us have been overwhelmed by the show that was organised in the Chamber last Saturday and Sunday, and that something similar is on the way today. Seeing what happened, I think only the most illusive can think it was something spontaneous. In this Chamber we have all had to listen to things that we did not like, that we did not like anything, very unpleasant things, some ad hominem, as also spent the weekend, but no one is legitimized to interrupt continuously and hinder the plenary. The president was very generous. By the way, in this Congress about the king many things have been said and much more unfavorable than those that could be poured out before yesterday, and so it must remain, because the Head of State is but an institution more subject to criticism. It is easy to guess that from tomorrow - not tomorrow, they have already done so today! -, seeing that the investiture can move forward, the People's Party, VOX and Citizens begin to expand the idea that this will be an illegitimate government, a government that does not respond to constitutional parameters. Before yesterday - even today you have done it - you have done a weak favor to the king and his constitutional neutrality. I understand that you will not be very happy in Zarzuela, because what you have done with your clumsy defense and your reproaches was to identify the head of state with your position. In short, what you seek is to confront the Head of State with the head of the Executive: The King, savior of Spain and who would be with you and what you represent, in front of the President of the Government - an illegitimate Government - who conspires against the bases of the State. And, in addition, giving the feeling of a sort of hierarchy of the head of state that legally does not exist. But it is curious that if we are all voting here today for Mr Sánchez's candidacy it is because the king has wanted it this way, because in the round of consultations with the parliamentary forces in Zarzuela the agreement between Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias was already known, and in order not to endanger Spain - not to sell it, as you say - the king could have perfectly opted to propose to Mr Casado, Mr Abascal or Mrs Arrimadas, and it turns out that he has proposed to the supposed felon Pedro Sánchez. [[applause]] According to his logic, the monarch's irresponsibility! [[Applauds]] Before yesterday we voted in favour of the investiture and we will do so again today. We will do so because we have assured with our agreement what challenges the new Executive will have to address, both on general issues and those directly affecting the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre. Also, in what way will we talk and move forward in its actualization? We will be voting in favour of trying to get out of the deep crisis in which the State finds itself because we have been without government for almost a year and it is necessary to put an end to provisionality. Because the problem of territorial and national identities needs to be unlocked from dialogue and not from confrontation, both in Catalonia and in Euskadi. Because the Spanish judicial system, politically ill-treated, is in question, and not only do I think so, but I have already given you the European perplexity in my speech the other day and yesterday you received a demonstration of this from the European Parliament. Because we have a Social Security that needs a reform that ensures public pensions at risk of questioning the state's own finances. To put an end to the paralysis of the executive for lack of budget; to put an end to the legislative stoppage; to ensure that decisions are now faced with the economic, employment and social challenges that require a Europe and a world instead, and because almost no one would understand that we were once again engaged in new elections rather than forging agreements, rather than doing politics. New recipes are needed, because those that have brought us here are no longer valid. This Government should do things differently. Balance must be sought and what is possible and impossible must be distinguished. There will be difficulties, reluctances and obstacles from many areas, even within the Administration, where there will be a plethora of officials and intermediate positions that pose pseudo-legal obstacles to the smallest things. Do not remain in the yes, minister, or you will have failed and it will be very difficult to move forward. I am confident that politics in this Government will be done by politicians and, of course, I hope that this Government will respect the agreements. The really hard thing starts tomorrow. I assure you that we will try to help with the birth of a new time, but it will be you, Mr. candidate, who will really have to show that you are willing to make that new time happen. I do not know what will happen, but what I am convinced is that it is the only way out and that it is worth trying. Nothing more, and thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the United Parliamentary Group We can-in Commu Puem-Galicia in common, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u75	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber.-Rumores]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be a little quiet so that we can continue the debate on investiture. [[The Rumors Continue]] Quiet, please. Thank you. Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u76	President, members of the Bureau, also from who is playing to be jury of La Voz. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I went on. I want to begin this intervention with a sentence by Angela Davis that explains very well our position here today and in this rostrum: We are not accepting the things that we cannot change; we are changing the things that we cannot accept. Last November we said we were going to stop to the far right in our country, and we did. We do so for the women who go out to take the streets every day and every 8 March, for the LGBTI people, for the racialized people, for whom they have to emigrate in search of a more dignified future, for the more than 36,000 lives that are lost in the Mediterranean because of the salvins, orbans and abascals who deny the right to rescue and asylum. We said we were going to stop to the far right and we do it for the memory of Dolores Ibarruri, born in meetzaldea, our mining area. [[Applauds]] She, the Passionary, from the Ministry of the Government said for the first time: They will not pass away!, and today we say it again. But we also do this for the memory of Josu Muguruza, elected Member of this House, who was murdered very close to here by extreme right-wing gunmen. [[Mr. Mateu Istúriz speaks words that are not perceived]] The only convict of that crime spent only two years in prison. Justice misses the one who spends two years in prison a convicted murderer and three years three young Altsasu for a bar fight. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, you - and not just you - have spoken these days of victims, of the victims of ETA. I want to convey to you on behalf of Euskal Herria Bildu a clear and clear position, not to you, which will give equal, but to the entire citizenship of the Spanish State: for all the victims, those of ETA, those of the LAG, those of the Spanish Basque Battalion, those of GANE, those of ATE, for the victims of para-police violence, for the tens of thousands of victims buried in cunetas in the Spanish State, truth, justice and reparation. For all of us. [[Applauds]] And I want to tell you something else, Mr Casado - perhaps you have not seen him in the mainstream media - every year, every 10 November, in the Basque Parliament there is a tribute to the victims of violence and Euskal Herria Bildu is always present. There is a party that is not present, it is the People's Party. [[Protests.-A lady MP: They're terrorists.-Rumors]] It is true that not only is the People's Party missing, there are also citizens and VOX missing, but these are not because in Euskal Herria or at least in Euskadi - if I may say so - I do not vote for them either. [[Applauds]] But the hooligans of the ultras benches don't mind what we say, they bother our own existence. But we are not here to please you, keep it clear; we are here to show you, with our presence, that we were neither defeated nor domesticated. They haven't done it with us and they haven't done it with the Basque people... we're here to defend our right to build... [[Rumors]] [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mrs. Beltran, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u78	We are here to defend our right to build a Basque republic where there is no form of domination and we also want to show that we are a country of solidarity. As Ernesto Guevara de la Serna said, solidarity is the tenderness of peoples. That is why we join our voice to those who shout 'Galiza Ceibe!', to the thousands of Catalans who came out on October 1st to defend the ballot boxes and democracy, to the canaries of the seven-star tricolor, to those of the rebel Andalusia of Blas Infante, to the Asturias workers, to the Castilla communera, to the Llionese Country, to all the peoples of the State and of the world who plant in front of the apisonadora of the elites. What binds us to them and to them is not to belong to the same nation, but to belong to the same class, which faces banking and big corporations. [[Applause from the Members of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group and the Republican Parliamentary Group]] Because we all confront bankers who retire with million-dollar retirements, while we are told that we live above our possibilities. In front of the corrupt right of the surrogates, of the Gürtel, of the Punic..., of the Noos, of the 'tamayzo'... [[rumors.-Mr. García Aegean utters words that are not perceived]] [[Rumors.-Protests]] In front of a royal family that no one has voted, but who always wins... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u80	In 1978 from this very rostrum, Francisco Letamendia, Ortzi, Member of Parliament at that time of Euskadiko Ezquerra, told them a very clear thing: we are here to fight for a society in which there are neither exploiters nor exploited, and we tell them clearly that our dreams do not fit your laws. Today I want to remember to finish a few words from Daniel Bensaïd, a historical militant of the French LCR and the May 68: We have sometimes, even often, wronged ourselves, and about many things, but we have never, ever, wronged ourselves neither of adversaries nor trenches. [[Protests]] Today we have in mind the workers of the home, of residences and of cleaning, the kellys, the workers of the metal, the miners, taxi drivers and stokers, the professionals of health and public education, who have come out to defend the rights of the many against the interests and privileges of the few, the precarious workers, the fellows, those who kill themselves to work in order to be able to pay the housing, those who survive in this huge crushing called capitalism. Today is not the beginning of anything, but the continuation of everything, because the struggle is like a circle, you can start at any point, but never - I insist, never - ends. That is why we will vote for abstention today, and that is why we will go to the streets of Euskal Herria on 30 January in a general strike to defend decent pensions, decent public services and decent work. [[Rumors]] Today more than ever...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u81	Mr. Matute, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u82	Today more than ever we make our own the Zapatista proclamation that the people rule and the Government obeys. Mila esker. [[Applause from the Members of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group and the Republican Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u83	Thank you, Mr. Matute. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mrs Vehí Cantenys. [[The ladies]] Mrs. Vehi can take over the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u84	Good morning. Beyond the debate of investiture, the two days of debate have left a deep mark: the aggressiveness of the right and the ultra-right and the conviction that they will not stop, and that is why we believe it essential from the CUP to articulate an anti-fascist alliance in the institutions and also in the street and we put ourselves at their disposal. Today, moreover, our vote will coincide, for diametrically opposite reasons, with these groups and we want to address them and also all the people who can listen to us. You have a problem with democracy, so you insult, use victims in a partisan way and take refuge in the courts. They bear neither plurality nor intelligence nor dissent, and let me say, Mr Abascal, that the origin of the aggressors has nothing to do with it, all that women's aggressors have in common is that they are men, and stop making racist comments. [[Applauds.-Mrs.Méndez Monastery: Not everyone is guilty]] As much as you talk about popular classes, you live... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u85	Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u86	...in high neighborhoods and they bring expensive suits. Don't fool us. We know that dark times are coming in Europe, but, as the song says, I hope the earth doesn't kiss your steps. Because, despite your boom, we in this legislature will work so that the people who vote for you will see in us an alternative, because what we have is memory: that of Quico Sabate, that of Guillem Agulló, that of Aurora Picornell and the Roges del Molinar, that of the Thirteen Roses, that of the lawyers of Atocha, because our independence is, above all, anti-fascist and is seen every day more than in this state amnesty and self-determination are indispensable in the 'no-pass'. And I'm done. As one of us said: our revolution can only be born of a great feeling of love. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. For the same parliamentary group, Mr García Adanero has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, tomorrow you will promise loyalty to the King and the Constitution to be President of the Government of Spain and you will do so with the votes of parties that hate the King, that hate the Constitution and that hate Spain. [[Applauds]] What a bunch of fellows! What a start to the legislature! What stability for Spain! I imagine, I'm sure, that you will do it on a legal imperative, like all those who will support you. He'll go there and do it as a legal imperative. What we are in no way going to forgive you of course, and it seems to us unheard of, is that you have put the PNV as Navarra's interlocutor. The PNV has no votes in Navarre. The PNV is running for election and is not voted for in Navarre. They don't vote for him in Navarre because in Navarre everyone knows that the greatest enemy of the Navarra Foral Regime is Basque nationalism, and that everyone knows, because no one wants Navarra to be Euskadi. [[applause]] In Navarre we don't want to be Euskadi. Do you know, Mr. Sanchez? Do you know, Mr. Esteban? Do you want to leave us alone at once? Mr. Churches, as you are also going to be president, I can also address what you have said here. I am not going to speak on behalf of all the victims, but I have two comrades from Union del Pueblo Navarro killed for defending freedom and you will understand that I am not going to be quiet here while the President of the Government of Spain, nothing more and nothing less, agrees with those who applauded their murders. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX and Citizens, standing]] That's never, I'm not gonna shut up. But what did they think this was? That we're gonna be here quiet, crouching, like the president? But, man, what's this gonna be? This is an indignity, and I'm just talking about the two of you. I could talk too much, I'm sure they would allow me, but speaking of the two of my party killed for defending the outlaw regime of Navarra, for defending Spain, I don't get to be told that I'm not sure what. It was just missing!, because I don't know if they have heard that they have not given up anything, they still think that the etarras are gudaris, they still think that ETA was worth it, they still think, they have not condemned any terrorist act of ETA, yes of others, but not of ETA, and you here are going to swallow, because the mattress of Moncloa must be very comfortable, but it is an indignity for all the Spaniards, for Spain, who are trampling us like this with those who have been so many years of terror and who have not asked for forgiveness from the victims. I have to say it for my mates. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, VOX and Citizens, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u89	Thank you, Mr. García. Finally, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Candidature, on behalf of the Asturias Forum, following the sovereign mandate contained in the preamble to our Magna Charter to guarantee the Spanish people democratic coexistence within the Constitution and the laws, in accordance with a just economic and social order, faithfully fulfilling the objective set out in the statutes of my party to contribute in Spain to the civic construction of a free and advanced society, without privileges or discrimination for reasons of history, population or wealth, proclaiming for Asturias and for Asturians the same as for all the autonomous communities of Spain, the right to be no more than anyone, but not less than the others, I will vote not for your inauguration as President of the Government. [[shows a copy of the Constitution]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u91	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand.- Applause of the members of the Government in office]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u92	President, ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday I began my speech by telling them of the confidence in ourselves and in our country, of the importance of the institutions in protecting our freedoms. Democracy is based on two principles. The first is the one we always mention: the form Government who has the support of the majority. But the second is equally important: the opposition accepts the result. These are the rules of democracy, but what we have seen - also today - is rights that do not comply with any of those democratic principles, nor do they want the majority to form a government or accept the outcome of the elections. [[Applauds]] What we have seen is radicalised right-wings who have insulted the winner of the elections, who have questioned the right of the majority to form government, who have called that despicable practice of political transfuguism and have launched campaigns of persecution and matonism - yes, matonism - against the deputies of other parties, all to prevent that first rule of democracy: that the majority has the right to form government. [[a woman MEP pronounces words that are not perceived]] [[rumors.-Applause.]] Not to accept the outcome of the elections; to persecute the deputies of other parties, to harass them and to threaten them; to practice a machinism that had not been seen in Spain for forty years. [[Protests]] For here are 167 brave, very honest, very dignified and honest people, above all, honest. [[Applauds]] Those practices are not those of democratic constitutional parties; they are practices of right-wing extremism that we believed to be banished from our lives and that are the worst cancer for our democracy. So, call yourself whatever you want, but stop claiming to be constitutionalists while trampling on each of the values of the Constitution. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand.- Applause of the members of the Government in office]] Mr Married, it seems that you have decided to follow VOX and I am sorry, because many of your voters are sincere democrats. If you think that by assimilating VOX you are going to neutralize them, you are wrong; you are going to overflow, you and your party, Mr. Married. They're already doing it. You have to make a decision. If he continues to be dragged by VOX, he will sink into the abyss of extremism. [[Rumors]] We will continue to appeal to his responsibility and to the sense of state that is supposed to be a party that has ruled Spain. [[Rumors.-A lady MP: Yes, like you]] Mr. Abascal, you were told earlier by the spokesman for the UPC, do you know what all the sexual assailants and abusers you listed have in common? That they're all machists. [[Applauds]] Last Sunday the president of the government gave him some data, and I'm going to transfer them again. 76.3% of those convicted are Spanish; convicted foreigners account for only 1.43% of the total number of immigrants living in our country. In 2018, 73.9% of those convicted of sexual indemnity were Spanish. So I'm gonna tell you two things. The first is to stop manipulating the data. And the second is that the problem is not race or origin, it's machismo. It's called machismo and kills. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this day closes a stage and opens a new time. It closes the time of the blockade, as the President said, and opens the time of the first progressive coalition of our democracy. [[Rumors]] Thanks to the groups that have supported the investiture, and here they will allow me to especially thank Mr Guitarte that today he has not even been able to sleep in his residence for the threats he is receiving. Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte, for your courage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] I am aware of the effort you are all making to vote on a programme other than your own. On that trust we will raise a legislature that must be that of dialogue, confidence and policies of progress. Members of the Socialist Group, when in this country we have had to be brave and take a step forward, we Socialists have always done so. Always. [[Applauds]] We did it in the Transition, while the right wing was either overturning or directly rejecting the Constitution. We did so in the modernization of the economy, which cost so much effort. We did it for entry into the European Union. We have done so with laws that have placed our country among the most advanced democracies on the planet and we have done so to defeat ETA. [[Applauds]] Today we begin a path that is not going to be easy - we are already seeing the attitude of the right in this investiture - but none of us and we came to this party because it was easy. We became socialists to defend the values of freedom, justice and progress that we are once again told today to take a step forward. A step forward by all those people who are waiting for answers, by those who suffer inequality, by those who suffer exploitation, by those who want a country that is more sensitive to the environment, more concerned about its elderly, with more future for its young people. A step forward for this to be a feminist country, for women to live on an equal footing with men. One step forward because it is good enough of sterile confrontations that paralyze us all. One step forward because Spain is needed, and there will be new socialists. President, Secretary General of my party, thank you for never losing strength, thank you for the resistance, thank you because today millions of Spaniards and Spaniards have once again believed in politics. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] Let's get started as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government in office, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Lastra. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Once the debate is concluded, we will proceed to the vote for the granting of confidence to the candidate proposed by his majesty the king, and confidence will be understood to be granted if the candidate obtains the favorable vote of the simple majority of the House. As set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 85.2, the vote shall be made public by appeal. Your ladies and gentlemen will answer yes, no or abstention from your seat when they are called by the secretaries, who will read the names from the speaker's rostrum. I ask you to answer the appeal with a clear and audible voice, although the secretaries who call them will repeat the meaning of the vote in order to avoid difficulties. The appeal is made in alphabetical order, but beginning with the first name of the honourable Member whose name has been drawn by lot and who has been Maria Dolores Narváez Bandera. The Government in office and the Bureau shall vote at the end. The vote will begin. I ask the Secretary to start the appeal first. The secretaries of the Bureau make an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who are expressing the sense of their vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'yes': Narváez Flag, Maria Dolores Nasarre Oliva, Begoña Ortega Otero, Marina Padilla Ruiz, Esther Peña Waiter, Esther Perea and Conillas, María Mercè Pérez Abelás, Adolfo Polo Llavata, Francisco Pons Sampietro, Pere Joan Nieto's friend, Ana. Quevedo Iturbe, Pedro Ramírez Carner, Arnau Ramon Utrabo, Elvira Ramos Esteban, Caesar Joaquin Ramos Rodríguez, José Luis Raya Rodríguez, Maria Tamara Rego Candamil, Nestor Renau Martínez, Germán Rodríguez Gómez, María del Pilar Rodríguez Rodríguez, Alberto Rodríguez Salas, José Antonio Ros Martínez, Susana Rosell Aguilar, Maria Victoria Ruiz and Carbonell, Joan Saavedra Muñoz, Marisa Sabanes Nadal, Inés Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, Idoia Sahuquillo García, Luis Carlos Salazar Rodríguez, Francisco José Sánchez Escobar, Mariano Sánchez Jódar, Marisol Sancho Guardia, Alfredo Sancho Íñiguez, Herminio Rufino Santiago Romero, Enrique Fernando Sarrià Morell, Vincent Manuel Saura García, Pedro Close Parent, David Serrano Martínez, Juan Francisco Seva Ruiz, Yolanda Sicily Ensign, Philip Jesus Simancas Simancas, Rafael Soler Mur, Alejandro Soto Burillo, Juan Luis Sumelzo Jordan, Susana Uriaarte Torrealday, Roberto Velarde Gomez, Martina Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Noelia Vicente Viondi, Daniel Vidal Sáez, Aina Vilches Ruiz, María Luisa Villagrasa I want, Naomi Zamarron Moreno, Agustín Zaragoza Alonso, José You take Galindo, José Luis. Agirretxea Ursti, Joseba Andoni Alfonso Cendón, Javier Alonso Suárez, María Olga Andrés Añón, Carmen Andrés Barea, Josefa Antón Cacho, Javier Aranda Vargas, Francisco Arangüena Fernández, Pablo Asens Llodra, Jaume Baldoví Roda, Joan Belarus Urteaga, Ione Berja Vega, Laura Blanquer Alcaraz, Patricia Botella Gómez, Ana Maria Bravo Boat, Eva Well Campanario, Eva Patricia Knight Gutiérrez, Helena Campo Moreno, Juan Carlos Canales Duque, Mariana de Gracia Cancel Rodriguez, Pilar Carrera de Castro, Zaida Carrillo de los Reyes, Beatriz Micaela Casares Hontañón, Pedro Cerdán León, Santos Cerqueiro González, Javier Corredor Sierra, María Beatriz Cortés Gómez, Ismael Crespín Rubio, Rafaela Four houses Asua, Juan Díaz Pérez, Yolanda Diouf Dioh, Luc Andre Durán Peralta, José Carlos Echenique Robba, Pablo Elorza González, Odón Errejón Galván, Íñigo Esteban Bravo, Aitor Fagundez Campo, Antidio Faneca López, María Luisa Fernández Benitez, Andrea Fernández Casaro, Ana Belén Fernández Castañón, Sofia Ferrer Treasure, Sonia Franco Carmona, Isabel Franco Pardo, José Manuel García Chavarría, María Montserrat García Gómez, Valentín García López, Maribel García Morís, Roberto García Puig, María del Mar Garrido Gutiérrez, Pilar Garzón Espinosa, Alberto Gomez Hernández, Hector Gómez-Reino Varela, Antonio González Caballero, Miguel Ángel González Pérez, Ariagona González Ramos, Manuel Gabriel Gorospe Elezcano, Josune Guaita Esteruelas, Sandra Guijarro Ceballos, Maria Guijarro García, Txema Guinart Moreno, Lydia Guitar Gimeno, Tomás Gutiérrez Prieto, Sergio Honrubia Hurtado, Pedro Antonio Turrion Churches, Pablo Illueca Ballester, Hector Izquierdo Roncero, José Javier Jover Díaz, Antonia Lamuà Estañol, Marc Lastra Fernández, Adriana Legarda Uriarte, Mikel Lima Cid, Fuensanta López Álvarez, Patxi López Cano, Ignacio López de Uralde Garmendia, Juan Antonio López Domínguez, Laura López Zamora, Cristina Master Moliner, Roser Máñez Rodríguez, Elena Marí Klose, Pau Marquez Guerrero, Maria Marra Dominguez, Maria Ángeles Marrodán Funes, Maria Martínez Seijo, María Luz Mayoral Perales, Rafael Meijón Couselo, Guillermo Antonio Mena Arca, Joan Mínguez García, Montse Montero Gil, Irene Maria Montilla Martos, José Antonio Muñoz Dalda, Lucia Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'no': Navarro Lacoba, Carmen Navarro López, Pedro Nevado del Campo, María Magdalena Nugueras and Camero, Miriam Olano Vela, Jaime Eduardo de Olona Choclán, Macarena Oramas González-Moro, Ana María Ortega Smith-Molina, Francisco Javier Ortiz Galván, José Paniagua Nuñez, Miguel Ángel Pedreño Molina, Juan Luis Pérez Díaz, María Auxiliadora Píriz Maya, Victor Valentín Postigo Quintana, Jesús Prohens Rigo, Margarita Ramallo Vazquez, María Pilar Ramírez del Río, José Round Calvillo, Mary of the O Quejo Novoa, Peter Jesus Requena Ruiz, Juan Diego Riolobos Regadera, Carmen Robles López, Joaquín Rodríguez Almeida, Andrés Alberto Rodriguez Herrer, María Elvira Rojas García, Carlos Romero Hernández, Carmelo Romero Sánchez, Rosa María Romero Vilches, Mary of the Kings Rosety Fernández de Castro, Agustín Wheel Perello, Patricia Ruiz Navarro, Eduardo Luis Ruiz Solás, María de la Cabeza Sáez Alonso-Muñumer, Pablo Salvá Verd, Antonio Sánchez del Real, Victor Manuel Sánchez García, José María Sánchez Pérez, Caesar Santamaría Ruiz, Luis Sayas López, Sergio Steegmann Olmedillas, Juan Luis Suárez Lamata, Eloy Taken away Ochoa, Vicente Toscano de Balbín, Carla Trias Gil, Georgina Uriarte Bengoechea, Edurne Utrilla Cano, July Vazquez Blanco, Ana Belén Vega Arias, Ruben Darío I've seen Cantenys, Mireia. Velasco Morillo, Elvira Zambrano García-Raez, Carlos José Zurita Exposito, Ana Maria Abascal Conde, Santiago. Aizcorbe Torra, Juan José Alcaraz Martos, Francisco José Almodóbar Barceló, Agustín Alonso Pérez, José Ángel Alonso-Cuevillas and Sayrol, Jaume Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos, Cayetana Alvarez Fanjul, Beatriz Angle Romero, Maria Teresa Aragonese Mendiguchia, Carlos Back to top García, Inés Asarta Cuevas, Alberto French Ball, Edmundo Bass Corugeira, Javier Nice Accensi, Ferran Beltran Villalba, Ana Maria Bermúdez de Castro Fernández, José Antonio Betoret Coll, Vicente Boadella Esteve, Genís You'll erase Castanyer, Laura. Erras Pabón, Mireia Borrego Cortés, Isabel María Butran Pahissa, Albert Head Houses, Thomas Callejas Cano, Juan Antonio Calvo Liste, Pablo Juan Cambronero Piqueras, Pablo Cañadell Salvia, Concep Cañizares Pacheco, Inés María Fucking beautiful, Eduardo. Married White, Pablo Casaro Ávila, Alberto Castellón Rubio, Miguel Ángel López Castle, Elena Chamorro Delmo, Ricardo Clavell López, Oscar Contreras Peláez, Francisco José Courtesy Carballo, Mario Cruz-Guzmán García, María Soledad De las Heras Fernández, Patricia From Luna Tobarra, Llanos From Meer Méndez, Rocío From Fifth Romero, Marcos Del Valle Rodríguez, Emilio Jesús Delgado Arce, Celso Luis Diaz Gómez, Guillermo Echániz Salgado, José Ignacio Spain Reina, Carolina Mirror-Saavedra Conesa, José María Spine of the Mounts of Simon, Ivan Esteban Calonje, Cristina Alicia Fernández Hernández, Pedro Fernández Ríos, Tomás Fernández-Lomana Gutiérrez, Rafael Fernández-Roca Suárez, Carlos Hugo Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, José María Bago Bugarín, Diego Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo, Conception Gammazo Micó, Oscar Garcés Sanagustín, Mario García Adanero, Carlos García Díez, Joaquín María García Aegean, Theodoro García Rodríguez, Alicia García Tejerina, Isabel García-Pelayo Jurado, María José Garriga Vaz de Concicao, Ignacio Gasquez Collado, Paloma Gesto de Miguel, Luis Gimenez Gimenez, Sara González Coello de Portugal, Victor González Guinda, María del Carmen González Terol, Antonio González Vázquez, Marta Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu, Fernando Adolfo Herrero Bono, José Alberto Hispan Churches of Ussel, Pablo Hole Juliá, Bethlehem Illamola Dausà, Mariona Jerez Juan, Miguel Ángel Jiménez Linuesa, Beatriz Jiménez Revuelta, Rodrigo Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, María Teresa Ledesma Martín, Sebastian Jesus López Álvarez, María Teresa López Maraver, Angel Lorite Lorite, Andrés Manso Olivar, Rubén Silvano Marcos Dominguez, Pilar Marcos Ortega, Miracles Marshal Anaya, Guillermo Mariscal Zabala, Manuel Martin Llaguno, Marta Martínez Ferro, María Valentina Martínez Granados, María Carmen Martínez Oblanca, Isidro Manuel Matarí Sáez, Juan José Mateu Istúriz, Jaime Miguel Mazón Ramos, José María Mendez Monastery, Lourdes Merino Martínez, Javier Master Barea, Manuel Miquel and Valentí, Sergi Moneo Diez, Maria Sandra Montesinos Aguayo, Pablo Montesinos de Miguel, Macarena Moraleja Gómez, Tristan Maria Moro Almaraz, Mary Jesus Movellán Lombilla, Diego Vidal Muñoz, Maria Ladies and gentlemen of the House who said 'abstention': Nuet Pujals, Joan Josep Pozueta Fernández, Isabel Pujol and Farré, Norma Rosique i Saltor, Marta Rufián Romero, Gabriel Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano, Iñaki Salvador i Duch, Jordi Telechea i Lozano, Carolina Vallugera Balañà, Pilar Aizpurua Arzallus, Mertxe Bassa Coll, Montserrat Capdevilla i Esteve, Joan Dantas oak, Maria Eritja Ciuro, Francesc Xavier Granollers Cunillera, Inés Iñarritu García, Jon Margall Sastre, Joan Matute García de Jalón, Oskar Ladies and gentlemen who voted 'yes' telematically: Barandiaran Benito, Íñigo Government members in office who said 'yes': Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, Pedro Calvo Poyato, Carmen Delgado García, Dolores Robles Fernández, Margarita Square Mount, Mary Jesus Grand-Marlaska Gómez, Fernando Abalos Meco, José Luis Celaá Diéguez, Isabel Valerio Cordero, Magdalena Maroto Illera, Reyes Planas Puchades, Luis Ribera Rodríguez, Teresa Guirao Cabrera, José Carcedo Roces, María Luisa Duke Duke, Pedro Members of the Bureau who said 'yes': Sánchez Serna, Javier Hernanz Costa, Sofia Pisarello, Prados, Gerardo Elizo Serrano, María Gloria Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, Alfonso Batet Lamaña, Meritxell Members of the Bureau who said 'no': Suárez Illana, Adolfo Gil Lazarus, Ignacio Pastor Julián, Ana Maria
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u94	Thank you very much. Are there any honourable Members who have not been appointed to vote? [[Pause]] The counting of votes cast shall therefore be carried out. [[Pause]] Made the count, he said
ParlaMint-ES_2020-01-07-CD200107.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the vote was as follows: votes cast, 350; votes in favour, 167; votes against, 165; abstentions, 18. Ladies and gentlemen, having reached the favourable vote of the simple majority of the members of the House, the candidate Don Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejon is given confidence, which I will inform his Majesty the King that he will be appointed President of the Government. [[Prolonged and strong applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, several Members of the Plural Parliamentary Group and the members of the Government in office, standing.-Applause from the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] The meeting rose. It was two and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
