ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Council of Ministers approved the official declaration of mourning for ten days in memory of the people who died in our country from the COVID-19 pandemic. Through this declaration of mourning the Spanish institutions we accompany their families and relatives, and we also do so in the special pain that marks a loss, always before time and without in many cases having been able to accompany our loved ones at the time of their death. As a society, we all feel orphaned today by so many of our elders, wishing we had been able to thank them for everything they have done for us. As public officials, all members of Congress are committed to contributing to the fight against the pandemic, to overcoming its vital, economic and social consequences, and also to making better instruments and learning from the mistakes we have been able to make available to those facing future crises. Today, the situation throughout Spain, in our hospitals and health centres, in our homes and in our streets, remains of extraordinary alertness and of necessary commitment to them continue to work for the health and safety of all, to whom again I want to transfer the gratitude of the representatives of the citizens. I also announce that at 12 in the morning the session will be interrupted to join all public and private bodies and institutions and all citizens to keep a minute of silence in this meeting room in memory of the deceased and of accompanying their families.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u2	We begin the session with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, he's finally wearing a black tie. And already, if he is able to account well for the deceased, he would achieve the new morality. Look around, there's not a single political party left to fool, not a single Spanish to lie to. We already knew that you were willing to compromise even with the devil to stay in the Moncloa, and you would probably end up betraying him too, but last week you crossed the Rubicon. It was not the first time he had agreed with Bildu, right, he owes them his presidency, the motion of censure, the investiture and the Government of Navarre, as Otegi restricts him. But it's a macabre paradox that says that it deals to save lives with those who justify eight hundred murders or that it deals to extend everyone's confinement with the one investigated for kidnapping my fellow Cisneros and Rupérez, in addition to just the day they attacked his fellow Mendia's house. The top line is that, instead of having the courage to explain an infamous pact and the doorway of his partners in Esquerra, say that it is the fault of the PP, a party that has twenty killed by Bildu's friends and that has been demanding plan B for a month to the state of alarm that you finally discovered on Saturday that was possible. Like Nero, he's been playing the lira for two months, watching everything burn, then blaming others for the fire and, to silence criticism, promising bread and circus: beach and football. And, in exchange for these votes, will you repeal the labor reform, which created 3 million jobs to get us out of the social drama in which your party, Zapatero and you left us? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u4	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you can speak to your spokesman in the Senate, Mr. Maroto, about these pacts with Bildu, who will be able to illustrate this matter to you. [[Applauds]] In any case, you raise the question of whether or not we are going to repeal labour reform. I have to tell you that in the electoral programme, in the government agreement between the Socialist Party and the United Nations, we can, in my investiture debate, say that we were actually going to use two verbs to talk about labour reform. First, to recover labor rights stolen by the labor reform that you unilaterally adopted in 2012. For example, eliminating sick leave after a ruling by the Constitutional Court, something we did last February 19 through a royal decree-law. And secondly, in addition to recovering those labour rights, rebuilding the broken social consensus as a result of that unilaterality. For example, social dialogue, something we have been practicing during these months of parliamentary term, Mr Casado: raising the interprofessional minimum wage, extending the ERTE until 30 June. Therefore, yes, Your Honor, we are going to recover the stolen labour rights and we are going to rebuild the social consensus broken by your previous administration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u6	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u7	Mr. Sánchez, don't cheat on the lonely and don't waste the patience and taxes of the Spanish in gross propaganda. We don't get stronger with 30 000 dead - as we know - 50,000 infected health care workers, 1 million families who don't charge ERTE, 3 million more and the queues of hunger. And with the institutions submitted: the CNI, the CIS, Spanish Television, the Attorney General's Office and now Colonel Pérez de los Cobos and the resignation of the DAO. We demand responsibilities for sabotaging judicial independence and the investigation of alleged crimes on 8-M, when they put thousands of lives at risk. What a painful metamorphosis, from 'Faisan' to the lame duck! Since Roldan no one had ever stained the Civil Guard like that. And they're still trying to cover it up with a salary increase approved by the PP and denied by you for two years. But we will come to the end and they will not be able to gag the Spanish people either in the media, in the networks, in the street or in the courts. Mr Sánchez, the one left in this farce, which has already become a tragedy, is not a colonel, the one left is his minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u8	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casado, the truth is that in this pandemic - the most serious not only in Spain, but in the world after a hundred years - the People's Party has not been with the Government of Spain. Your opposition can be characterized by three issues, Mr Casado. The first of these is that you are opposed to anything the Socialist Party, United We can, this government; anything. They first criticized us for paying attention to scientists, but then they said that we supposedly didn't pay attention to scientists; they criticized us for not having approved the state of alarm, but now they criticize us for not raising the state of alarm; they criticized us because a civilian guard at a press conference committed a lapsus, but now they criticize us for having dismissed a civilian guard, Your Honor. Anyway, you're opposed to anything. The second dimension of his opposition is the inn competition. Mr. Married, during these ten weeks the only thing you've done has been pose, in front of a very angry mirror apparently, next to some sheep... Your Honor, you compete and compete with Mrs. Ayuso in inn. And, thirdly, very much to the right side of the far right. Mr Casado, think about the following: if you speak as VOX, act as VOX and vote what VOX, we can infer all those who are here that, if it is not the same, it begins to seem the same as the ultra-right, and that is a problem for Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DO THE LEGISLATION OF THE GOVERNMENT HAS PLANNED? [[File number 180/00156]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u10	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u11	Thank you very much, President. Mr Sánchez, how does the government intend this legislature?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u12	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, just over a hundred days ago - in an investiture speech in this rostrum - I presented a government programme, where we were talking about territorial dialogue, we were talking about social dialogue, we were also talking about the changes we had to make in the educational field, in the field of ecological transition, in the field of European construction. Indeed, in seventy days the landscape has changed, the scenario has changed completely and what we are doing is to respond, in health, social and economic terms, to a pandemic that has been unprecedented for the last hundred years in Spain and the world. But, Your Honor, I have said this in many debates that we have had over the last few weeks when I have come to request the extension of the alarm decree in this House: the government program, Your Honor, remains in force. I repeat, I believe that it is more necessary than ever to deal with the next four years of our parliamentary term. And I have to say, Mr Rufián, that I am grateful, first of all, that your group abstained and facilitated the investiture of this government - because if it was not very difficult to respond to many of the challenges that have arisen to us over these seventy days after the pandemic - and I am also grateful, Mr Rufián, for the constructive attitude that your parliamentary group has taken when it comes to validating such important royal decrees-laws in order to respond to this threefold dimension of the pandemic: health, social and economic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u14	Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u15	Thank you very much, President. I too thank you for your words, Mr President. But there are many Spains, although I believe that right now there are only three: the one of the one, the one of the other and the one of those who hallucinate, the one of those who hallucinate with you. That of those who hallucinate with you, especially because they do mathematics instead of politics in times as severe as this; when they choose 10 sure votes from the right in exchange for nothing, instead of 13 votes from independence, from Catalan republicanism from the left, in exchange for social aid to get people out of the hole in which they are and in which they will be. People hallucinate and it's very dangerous, it's terribly dangerous, giving air to the right. One example: Perez de los Cobos. The Civil Guard reports are no more false now because they affect you than they were with Altsasu on September 20 or October 1. They're not fake anymore. Perez de los Cobos is no longer lying when he talks about 8 March, he was already lying when he was talking about reports or reports that led nine Catalan Democrats to jail and many others to exile. That's how terribly dangerous it is to give these people air. Look, Mr President, you have a commitment to us: talking, dialogue; courage and dialogue. A dialogue and negotiation table to avoid things like this. This is a report by Amnesty International - Amnesty International -, which once again speaks of the savagery of having Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart in prison, and now no longer only challenges the Supreme Court, but calls on the Attorney General's Office and the State's Attorney General. [[shows a document]] Does it challenge you, progressive government, of dialogue and plurinational? Can we ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations? Yes or no? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u16	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in many speeches from this rostrum and from the bench I have said that we are going to reactivate the bilateral Commission for Dialogue between the Government of Spain and the Generalitat of Catalonia. I also do not understand that you say that what the government is doing is math. I do not think that, for example, the extension of ERTE until 30 June is mathematical, I think it is a commitment, a commitment by this Government, that no one should be left behind in a terrible pandemic that is having economic and social consequences to which this Government is giving a completely different response than that which the right would give if it were to govern, as they did precisely after the financial crisis, cutting down all elements of the welfare state, something that we are in some way also suffering in the response to this crisis, for example in the health sector. Therefore, what we are doing is political, progressive politics, giving an answer precisely where it is necessary, when it is necessary and how it is necessary for no one to be left behind, Your Honor. That is what this Government is doing. And again I insist on your question, what we are going to do is to keep our investment commitments. And I would like to thank you again, Your Honor, for your constructive attitude on this matter. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE SECOND Vice-President THINK THAT HIS MANAGEMENT IN THIS CRISIS IS GENERATING CONFIDENCE IN SOCIETY? [[File number: 180/00161]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u18	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, following Mr. Sánchez's similitude, if you act like Bildu, bargain with Bildu and vote with Bildu, you are Bildu. Your Honor, what kind of people make up a government that knowing that masks avoid contagion doesn't advise them because there isn't enough? In February they were not necessary and in May they are mandatory. We don't get any stronger, 30 000; 30 000 Spaniards are missing. Its social shield is built from the Spanish Broadcasting logo and the dismissal of an honest man, Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. They are very upset that justice is investigating why the Government has put ideology above the health of the Spaniards. Because if you had done everything right, you would have nothing to fear today, but the cessation of a civilian guard colonel who was simply fulfilling his obligation shows that you are very interested in covering up everything that happened on March 8. With this panorama, Your Honor, do you believe that your management is generating trust in society?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u20	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr García Aegean, there are two elements in your question: one is crisis management and the other is confidence. Regarding crisis management, I think the best way to evaluate it is to compare it, compare how this crisis was managed and how the 2008 crisis was managed. In 2008 there were cuts; now what has happened are ERTE to protect thousands of entrepreneurs and workers. [[Rumors]] In 2008, there were cuts in supplies; this Government has banned them so that no one will be left without the basic supplies that ensure their dignity. In 2008, there were evictions without housing alternatives; this Government has banned them. The second word in your question is confidence. Do you know what creates mistrust, Mr. García Aegean? Corruption. Do you know what creates mistrust? The cuts in public health. [[Several Members: No! No! No!]] Do you know what creates mistrust, Mr. García Aegean? Disassemble the welfare state. For this government has generated confidence with an unprecedented social shield, with a vital minimum income that you no longer seem to oppose; welcome to democratic consensus. Look, Your Honor, I'm not naive, but we're going to keep reaching out to you guys for your shoulder. I think a little more humility on your part wouldn't hurt. Think about the implications of you being thrown into the mountain with VOX, and I'm not telling you, I'm telling the president of your party: going up the mountain is very easy; going down is very difficult. Perhaps they are placing themselves in an extremely dangerous position not only for their future, but for Spanish democracy, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u22	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u23	Mr. Iglesias, what has to happen for a minister of your government to resign? What else has to happen? How can you have the little shame of coming here to ask for dialogue, consensus, agreement, and then fulminate everyone who bothers you when you walk out the door? What an irony, Mr. Iglesias, with how good it was for you to accuse the People's Party in the past, that you are about to sit on the bench accused of obstruction of justice and disclosure of secrets! There's just something worse than cheating on people, and it's cheating on people who are having the worst of it. Because if they're not paying the ERTE, how are they going to pay a minimum income? You propose to repeal the labour reform of the People's Party, which created three million jobs. In the time you have been vice president, a million jobs have been destroyed. What should be repealed, Mr. Churches, labour reform or you? You're leaving thousands of Spaniards behind and now you're staining the good name of the Civil Guard. More than a hundred years ago, the founder of the Civil Guard, the Duke of Ahumada refused to carry out an unjust order from General Narváez: That decision will be made by my successor, not me. More than a century later, General Laurentino Ceña has done the same with his Government, preferring to leave rather than make an unfair decision. If Roldán didn't get rid of the Civil Guard, you won't either. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u24	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Are you aware of what you have just said, Mr. García Aegean? Have you read the paper they wrote to you? Are you calling for the insubordination of the State Security Forces and Bodies? Are you inviting, Mr. García Aegean, our police and our civilian guards...? [[Protests.-Applause.]] [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u26	Quiet, please. The second Vice-President and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030: Do you not feel ashamed to laugh on an official day of mourning, ladies and gentlemen? Are you asking, Mr. García Aegean, the members of the State Security Forces and Corpses to fail to comply with any orders they consider, on your own initiative and inciting you to be unjust? Are you aware, in your enormous lucidity, Mr. García Aegean, of what you are saying here? [[Turrion Churches]] [[Protests Continue]] Be careful, we're playing with democracy, Your Honor! [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND Vice-President AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WILL THE MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030 THE SOCIAL Shield AFTER THE STATE OF ALARMA? [[File number 180/00155]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u27	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u28	Thank you very much, President. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber]] Mr Second Vice-President, the socio-health crisis of COVID-19 has forced this government to take exceptional measures to try to curb the impact that the pandemic has caused among people, health measures, economic measures, social measures, but surely you and I can agree that these measures have little validity if they end in June. Unfortunately, the lives of millions and millions of people currently living in the State will continue to be convulsed by the foreseeable economic crisis ahead. That is why we ask the honourable question: will the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 maintain the social shield after the state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u29	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Matute, thank you for your question. It is clear that measures have been taken that specifically address the specific elements of health management and, say, the implications of restricting mobility as a result of the state of alarm and a health-type need, but I understand what you say. This crisis is not only a health crisis, it is a social and economic crisis with gigantic consequences that is changing all the paradigms. We meet people who, until a long time ago, were in conservative ideological coordinates, understanding that we have to make expansive fiscal policies, understanding that we have to face this crisis with the same criteria with which the reconstruction was faced after 1929 and after the Second World War. The answer is therefore yes, this Government is fully aware of the social and economic dimension of this crisis, which will not only affect our country. Allow me an irony that has been shared among economists lately: some thought that catastrophes turned atheists into believers; catastrophes turn neoliberals into neokeynesians. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u31	Mr. Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Iglesias, you speak of a paradigm and it is true, we are faced with a historical crossroads and we really believe that there are only two paths, at least two visible paths: to continue in what they call recovery or reconstruction following the steps that took after the 2008 crisis, with harmful results, more precariousness, more inequality, more social exclusion, the richest rich, the poorest, a minority holding the wealth of the country as a whole to the detriment of the popular classes, or, on the contrary, to move, transition and transform the current model into a new economic model that is more redistributive, fairer, more egalitarian and more solidarity. We said it in January and we say it again today: we are here to fight for a society in which there are neither exploiters nor exploiters. We keep saying it the same way. And we made it clear that our dreams did not fit into the laws or many laws of the Spanish State. Since we do not think of changing our dreams, what we are going to do is to change the laws, so we have proposed the repeal of the labor reform, that labor reform that they say brought three million jobs, but we should add that of jobs garbage, of temporality, of exclusion, of precariousness and of feminization of poverty. We certainly do not want this to happen again and, as we are not going to change our dreams, as I was saying, what is left to us is to change the laws. In the same way that we say that our aspirations are not even the aspirations of Euskal Herria Bildu, a political formation, are those of the majority of society, are those of the popular classes who want decent lives in free peoples; in short, free lives, lives that put dignity at the center. That is our aspiration and we say it with the reason and legitimacy that the votes give us, votes that do not have others who want to condemn us to work and to survive. I'll finish with a question. It seems that the time has passed for applause on the balconies; we turned applause on the balconies to the essentials, the health personnel, the care staff and those who work in society, by...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u33	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Matute, I agree with you, probably you and us... [[laughs]] But are you really going to keep laughing today, ladies? Have you checked to what extent the lack of courtesy and rudeness are the marks of identity of that bench, ladies and gentlemen? Are you not even able to respect the dialogue that takes place between two Members who are not part of your formation? It's embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I was telling you, Mr. Matute, that I agree with what you are proposing. We can get excited with different symbols and probably some of our dreams don't coincide, but I think we can agree when it comes to defending social justice and all the concrete implications that this has, such as dismantling labour reform, building a social shield or a tax reform that meets what the Spanish Constitution says, which, although you don't like, surely agrees with the social articles. Look, I think you agree that this government is doing the opposite of what was done in 2008, but the best proof that it is doing the opposite is you have there. [[pointing out the banks of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF MR LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT IS YOUR OPINION WITH REGARD TO THE RECENT INTERNATIONAL AMNISTIA REPORT THAT CONCLUDES THAT JORDI KNOWS AND JORDI CUIXART MUST BE POSTED IN FREEDOM OF IMMEDIATELY? [[File number 180/00158]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u35	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. When Amnesty International's report was released, we recorded parliamentary questions to find out what the Government's view was about the unequivocal and crystal clear conclusion of the report: the request for immediate release for Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart. The report, which was of Amnesty International and not of the Civil Guard, said that the right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly was being violated and added that the definition of the criminal type of sedition should be revised to ensure that it did not unduly criminalize the exercise of those fundamental freedoms, in addition to not complying with an article of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and another article of the European Convention on Human Rights. Today we wanted to ask the Vice-President Pablo Iglesias his opinion on this, but this government, which says that he is the one who listens the most, does not want to let him hear our question and the government that dialogues the most does not allow us to dialogue on this issue. As we were told yesterday that it would be the Minister of Justice who would answer, I say to you, Minister, that the Vice-President said: It is a shame that Amnesty International has to bring the colors to our country saying that there are prisoners of conscience here. I do not want to live in a country where there are prisoners of conscience, I want to live in a country where problems can be solved by sitting all at the table and having state height. I ask you, Minister, whether the Vice-President has transferred this concern to you and directed you to make political decisions to agree on your wishes and thoughts to political actions. We also know that the PSOE has defended and supported this prestigious NGO by affirming, as it reads on its website: The PSOE reaffirms to Amnesty International its commitment to ensuring that human rights remain a priority in Spain. We ask him: Are they still? He has also participated in campaigns calling for the freedom of Saudi activists; the same difference is that to have his support it is necessary to be Saudi and not Catalan. It's over, Minister. I ask you to convey to the Vice-President the message of one of these political prisoners, Jordi Sánchez, who says the following: Vice-President, I hope that the gravity of the moment will not prevent you from maintaining your momentum to advance in social justice, the conquest of democratic freedoms and rights and the effective resolution of political conflicts such as that between Catalonia and the Spanish State. A brotherly hug. And I finish, not without claiming once more: Freedom political prisoners and exiles. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u37	Minister of Justice's offices.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Borràs, thank you very much for your question, but I am not going to finish convincing you of anything. Amnesty International's report deserves this Minister, like the entire Government, the highest consideration, as it deserves the highest consideration of what Amnesty International is, the permanent defence of human rights and the defence that it has done to all. I must therefore tell you that there is an enormously positive assessment of what the report is and what Amnesty International's work is. That said, we are talking about a particular judicial case, and I will give you two reasons: a first, so I told you that I can't get much ahead of you, is that it's a criminal matter and in our democratic and legal system criminal matters are settled by the judges. He may not like the model, but it is the model on which this Government believes, in the separation of powers; I can tell you more clearly, not higher. The classification of facts and the consequences of penalties are done by the courts. Or if you want me to tell you otherwise. The incardination of an action or omission with the injury of a legal asset is a competence of the courts, which judge and enforce the court. In addition, they do so exclusively and exclusively; no one else can do it. We have a ruling on this matter. Allow me a digression. We pay attention - let's play that - to the report. Do you really think the government can go and open the cell? That is not the democratic and legal system that we have given ourselves. The report deals with two questions, in fact, of the exercise of rights and the modification of the penal type. The first one I've already explained. In addition, there is the Constitutional Court. Do you really believe that this Minister of Justice should make assessments of this? What will citizens understand? And secondly, the reform of the penal type. That's the task of the legislature, not the executive. The executive can push. Your Honor, I love that we are talking about Catalan sovereignty again and I say this because perhaps we are returning to the old normal, but if that means that we have overcome the coronavirus, I am satisfied. Let's learn from the pandemic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u39	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT OPINION DOES THE INTERNATIONAL Amnesty REPORT 'SPAIN: FREEDOM OF MEETING AND EXPRESSION, AND THE PRINCIPLE OF LEGALITY, TO THE LIGHT OF THE JUDGMENT OF THE SUPREME COURT IN THE SPECIAL CASE 3/20907/2017'? [[File number 180/000154]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u40	Question by Mr Albert Botran Pahissa, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u41	Thank you and good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. I will focus on the same issue, in Amnesty International's report. Up to seven times he has called for the freedom of the Jordis Amnesty International, the last in the last few days. He has requested the release and annulment of the sentence. You say that the government cannot do anything about it, and that is not true. The Government may legally promote pardon if that is the case and may also, if that is the case, promote the repeal of the sedition offence. Therefore, this report, which calls on you and which has also been sent to the State Advocate, who is dependent on the Government, deserves what consideration? Do you intend to act accordingly?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u42	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. I'll answer practically the same thing again. Spain is a country, a rule of law, which believes in the separation of powers. Therefore, any elucubration has to be incardinated in that separation of powers and the mission of the Executive is not to judge or enforce the judgment. That's what judges do, and that's what they've done. We have a firm sentence. Now, because of the system of guarantees that we have given ourselves in our Constitution, it is the Constitutional Court that has to analyse - it is analysing - whether there has been, through these amparo remedies, an injury to the fundamental right to effective judicial protection. Let us believe it; if we do not believe it we will do damage to the system that we do not deserve as a country or as lovers of good law. I say to you that the Amnesty report to this Government deserves the utmost consideration, but it must be placed in what it is and where conflicts have to be resolved. If we delegitimize the institutions, we will be burdening ourselves with the credibility of the rule of law and that is what this Government is not going to allow. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u44	Mr. Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u45	Mr Minister, the only thing we have heard this morning in your two speeches has been an excuse, to remove a political responsibility from it, because the truth is that Amnesty International's report is not only addressed to judges, but also to those who depend on your Government; as I mentioned earlier, it is the case of the State Advocate. They have also been sent to the Office of the Attorney-General who appointed them on his proposal when the Government changed, etc. You take the responsibility away from you, because of course you could use this Amnesty International report with political will to dissociate yourself from what was a bad trial, which resulted in political prisoners. And, of course, as I have said before, you could promote pardon if the prisoners so wanted, but, even if you do not, you have the political capacity to do this. And they can also promote the legislative work, as Amnesty International recommends, to repeal the crime of sedition. It's political will that you don't have. Now that it seems that this justice appears to you as what it is, that there was no break in the transition and it is full of judges, with honourable exceptions, but with many judges of Francoist mentality, and now it appears to them as a threat, take into account that what now seems to be happening against you has happened in many cases against Catalan independence and against Basque independence, and in many cases you have stood behind those conservative and reactionary judges. The report... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u46	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Botran, I regret that in these times of confusion and exacerbated populisms we have to explain such basic things, but the role of judging lies with the judges in our democracy. It is not true that this Government is hiding; it is not hiding from anything. This minister has already told you that it would be necessary, with the precise consensus, to review in this House the sedition crime to which you referred, as well as environmental and other crimes. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Botran. I don't see you very concerned, neither you nor your group, about the administration of justice. As far as the legislature goes, there is not a single initiative before this House to fix justice. Support and worry about justice in general, environmental crime, sedition crime. I have said in this House that we should review these types, but we must do so with the necessary calm, with the necessary articulations and not in the heat of concrete action, because - I insist - strengthening the institutions is what makes our democracy strong. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHAT TAXES ARE VALUING THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/000165]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u48	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, with this government that lies to us every day, it is very difficult to know who is telling the truth. Does the Minister of Economy, when she says in the French newspaper Les Échos that there is going to be a rise in taxes, or the Minister of Industry, when she says that the rise in taxes is not on the government table? Does the Minister of Labour, when she talks about an increase plan of 80 billion a year - i.e. a 37% tax increase - or do you, when a week ago she gave me the impression that they're only thinking about a digital tax and another one about financial transactions? Or Mr. Pablo Iglesias, when he talks about a COVID rate? Or the stability programme of the Kingdom of Spain which it has submitted, which includes an increase in the IRPF and corporation tax or a new taxation? Minister, what taxes is the government worth raising?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u50	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I have exactly the same opinion as I expressed to you just a week ago. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u52	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u53	Thank you very much. However, things have changed in a week, Minister. On Monday in an interview in the newspaper Expansion, the Minister of Social Security stated that Spain would in no way need a rescue from the European Union. However, you, just three days later, stated with some squandering that we were going to ask for aid worth 1 billion or 1 and a half billion. Total, between 1 billion and 1 and a half billion are only EUR 500 billion, which is about 50% of Spanish GDP. Well, whatever it is, billion or billion and a half. In addition, you expect them to be basically transfers and not loans, that is, to give us the money, so that we don't have to give it back. Apparently, the government believes they're going to give us 1 or 1 and a half billion and that that's not a ransom. I congratulate you, because in life you have to be optimistic. And I tell you more, VOX is going to support the Spanish Government in Europe whenever it is necessary for Spain's interest. Therefore, we will support you in that ransom which, in your opinion, is not a ransom for whatever amount, 1 billion, 1 and a half billion or 5 billion, whatever you think. But let's not be fooled, Minister, no matter how much, that money will come conditionally, whether it's a ransom or not. For that there are two options and we are still in time to choose. One of two, we either cut the state's autonomy and cut the state's welfare of politicians or you'll go back to doing what you did in the 2008 crisis. Because you were ruling, which it would be wise for you to remember your vice president Pablo Iglesias, you were ruling, and you raised taxes, you frozen pensions and you reduced the salaries of officials. So, for the last time, Minister, are you going to raise taxes? Are you going to freeze the pensions? Are you going to reduce public wages when Europe's money comes? Or are you going to undertake the necessary cut in expenses that Spain has so that, instead of cutting the Spaniards, we cut the politicians? Or pensions or autonomy. Or cut the Spaniards or cut the politicians. What's your policy going to be, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u54	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa, it is you who directly deny that taxes are paid and that means the policy of saving anyone who can; whoever has resources can have public services, whoever has no resources will have to seek life. The defence of Spain that you proclaim, Mr Espinosa, is to climb on top of a bus or in a high-end car and proclaim freedoms without having any concern and simply taking over the symbols that belong to us all Spaniards. And believe me, Mr Espinosa, we are not worried about the demonstrations, we are concerned about the spread of the virus, we are concerned about the health of the citizens above any other issue, but we are also concerned about the drift of the People's Party being led by such policies, by these kinds of attitudes that you practice. Because, Mr Casado, when you vote no to the state of alarm you are voting not to preserve the health of the citizens; when you decide to put the Reconstruction Commission in Andalusia in the hands of the far right, you are ordering this country project to the far right; when you propose that what we are in is a state of siege, you are demanding freedom to spread. [[rumors.-Applause.]] [[rumors.-Applause.]] Therefore, Your Honor, what this is about, what we have to do at this time above any other issue, is to preserve that all compatriots can have the only therapeutic instrument, the only medicine that has so far been effective, which is called a state of alarm, and all those who deny the state of alarm... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u57	...are putting forward other kinds of interests; I fear, Mr. Married, that party interests. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA TERESA JIMENEZ-BECERRIL BARRIO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR PACT WITH HIS NEW BILDU PREFERENT SOCIES THE BEST STRATEGY TO ISLAND POLITICALLY AND POLITICALLY JUDICIALLY DISPOSAL TO THE RESPONSIBLES FOR THE LAST EVIDENCE OF CALLEY VIOLENCE IN THE VASCO AND NAVARRA COUNTRY? [[File number 180/000168]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u58	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by María Teresa Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u59	Minister, how do you intend to defend against Spanish society and the victims of terrorism the political pact that the Government has signed with Bildu, which does not condemn the murders of ETA? And how do you intend to justify the cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, who risked his life in the fight against ETA when the civilian guards were the priority goal for the ages?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u60	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Jiménez-Becerril, as I have done for more than thirty years in my life, with the application of the law and also taking important risks. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u62	Quiet, please. Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u63	Mr. Churches, I wanted to tell you that democracy we are not playing, you have stolen it from us. Mr Marlaska, what value is the word of your president, who said: I will never agree with Bildu and has done so, and what value is his word as magistrate and minister of the interior when he has been able to dismiss an exemplary civilian guard for respecting the law. Are you also going to blame the People's Party now as you have done with your pact with Bildu? Are we also to blame for the dismissals of civilian guards who do not bow to a government that has lost decency? What do you owe the ETA spokespersons? Are we going to pact to amnesty for ETA prisoners? You do not force anyone to whitewash ETA's political arm, because you are losing the memory, dignity and sense of justice every time you thank the votes of a party like Bildu, who humiliates this Parliament with his only presence. For all this, Mrs Lastra, do not say here again that while we were manifesting ourselves you were defeating ETA, because ETA was defeated by the Spaniards with their white hands, our police, civilian, military guards and the victims of terrorism with their civic courage and their sacrifice of broken life, and not by you agreeing with them yesterday, today and tomorrow. Now, Minister, you are a hero to all the independenceists, but you have become a villain to all of us who defend the integrity of the Benemerita and the division of powers, which this government does not respect. You say you have lost confidence in Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, and the Spaniards, whom we recognize who has defended with honor Spain, we have lost in you. So leave and return to that brave civilian guard, with an impeccable service sheet. And, Mr Sánchez, as a Spaniard and a victim of ETA, I tell you that my brother and his wife were murdered, like many other Spaniards, for defending democratic legality and that we are not going to allow your government to destroy it. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u64	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Jiménez-Becerril. I'm going to start by telling you that I'm not comfortable arguing with you, but not because I have to shut up for any reason. I know you don't let yourself be used or instrumentalized either. You and I have a lot in common. I am not flattered by any past or personal situation, but we have many things in common. Look, I have characterized myself and will continue to characterize myself by the application of the law without stridentities, without great voices. And I'm not comfortable because you know in your party who they have to put me in front of when we talk about terrorism and victims of terrorism: they put me on Mari Mar Blanco, they put me on you and, when I was there, they put me on Jaime Mateu; that is, people with whom I join important issues of skin and feelings. [[rumors]] But to all of us what unites us is the Spanish society, the rule of law, these forty years in which we have forged a strong state of freedom, of respect for diversity, gentlemen of VOX. That unites us all. And now what society is really looking for is that we talk about restructuring, about that necessary social, economic, financial reconstruction, obviously without forgetting, because this Minister of the Interior does not forget, does not forget the terrorism of ETA, does not forget thirty years, does not forget that we still have many pending actions, many objectives to achieve, and we continue to work on it, we continue to work with the Civil Guard, we continue to work with the National Police, with the Ertzaintza, with the Mosso, with all the police, and we will continue until the end, and we will apply prison law in the area of prison rights, as has always been applied and as has been recognized by the associations of victims of terrorism. But Mrs Jiménez-Becerril, aside from the fact that we are not going to forget, what we do not have to forget now is that we have a society that wants the best of all of us so that we can find a future worthy of all. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MR MARIO GARCÍES SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES IT PLAY WITH THE AGREEMENT OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS ADOPTED TODAY TO FACILITATE THE PAYMENT OF THE THIRD WAY OF SALARY EQUIPMENT PACTED IN 2018 ENCOVER THE ARBITRARY DECISIONS ADOPTED IN YOUR MINISTRY? [[File number 180/000170]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u66	Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, do you intend with the agreement adopted yesterday by the Council of Ministers to finalise the payment of the third tranche of wage equality agreed in 2018 to cover arbitrary decisions taken by the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u68	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. No, no, If that is the question that asks me, obviously not, because, first of all, I do not know what arbitrary decisions this Government has been able to take; I do not know them, of course. He would not have assumed them if they were arbitrary. I will simply tell you that we are fulfilling our commitment to pay the third tranche of the salary equalization agreement of March 2018. That is the only thing we are doing, I said it in January and February when I appeared in the Internal Affairs Committee of this House, simply proceed to comply with a compromise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u70	Mr. Garcés Sanagustín.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, no pain or fear. A judge, a life and the struggle to be who we are. It was the year 2017. I couldn't attend the presentation of your book, and I'll always thank you for coming to the presentation of mine, you know I'll always take it into account. But it is true that in this struggle and in this evolution that you have suffered, with the faith of the convert and even with the resignation of the model, you have changed a lot. I will ask you three questions out of intimate curiosity and almost anthropological; one addressed to the person, another to the judge and another to the minister, although you, in the end, will only answer me as minister. The person would ask for his conscience, the one that does not reflect our moral responsibilities in front of him. Mr. Great-Marlaska, is the consciousness you have today the same consciousness you had ten years ago? I also ask the judge; I ask him about consistency, which confronts us with our contradictions. Mr. Grande-Marlaska, do you believe that the decision you made to cease Colonel Perez of the Cobos is just, necessary, discretionary, arbitrary? And, thirdly, I ask you, Minister - who was going to tell us in 2016, when we worked together, that we were going to see each other here, you there and me here - for competition. In accordance with the principles of legality, of rigour, of which we are legal operators, do you think you have acted properly? Three of these: coherence, sanity, co-responsibility. You have failed at all times. I'm going to tell you one thing, you know that the maximum rule that the Civil Guard has is precisely that honor is their currency. In his office, precisely, the honor is lacking. But I'm going to ask you something. There is an anecdote that is told about the Duke of Ahumada: when one of the corporals of the Civil Guard prevented General Narváez from parking right at the entrance to the Royal Theatre, General Narváez asked him to stop at that end. Do you know what the Duke of Ahumada did? He resigned. I ask you not to leave, I ask you to make a Narvaez; and do you know what it is? In that he restores Colonel Pérez de los Cobos; we prefer the colonel to General Santiago. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u72	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Garcés. I will try, if it gives me time, to refer to awareness, coherence and competence. But I'll tell you one thing, what I'm worried about is that you use the State Security Forces and Corpses here today, when we're able to celebrate the third stretch, the salary increase, which is what you do.. [[rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u74	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u75	... with other subjects of political demagogy, as he has exhibited; that is, with the rhetorical exquisiteness that is his own. In those terms, I will simply tell you that we have proceeded in the terms indicated and without performing any kind of arbitrariness. With regard to the question you raise about Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, I would like to point out that, as has been said, we are in a remodeling plan for the Ministry of the Interior team; that the people who work with me, Director of the Civil Guard, Secretary of State, are forming their teams; free designation, gentlemen! When it comes to free designation when you are, that is effectiveness, that is efficiency; when there is the Socialist Party or United We may not have the right to free designation. But you, for the hypothetical case, assuming they came, have already made a designation. General Santiago believes that he is already seeing or glimpsed a hypothetical rather grey future; instead, others, quite positive; something that this minister does not do and lets his team work, and work quietly, without interference, I say again; interferences like those I have been hearing here, interferences with the Civil Guard, proposing appointments and dismissals; interferences also with the Judiciary, because I have heard Mr. Married already sitting sentence on the facts of 8-M. Let's just... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u76	Thank you, Minister. - of Mr Eloy Suárez Lamata, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister of the Interior: what does the Ministry of the Interior intend to do with the improvised agreement of the Council of Ministers to enable THE PAYMENT OF THE THIRD PART OF THE NATIONAL POLICE AND CIVIL GUARDIA SALARY EQUIPMENT? [[File number 180/000171]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u77	Question by Mr Eloy Suárez Lamata, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u78	Thank you, Madam President. What does the Minister of the Interior intend to conceal with the improvised agreement of the Council of Ministers to enable the payment of the third tranche of salary equalization to the National Police and the Civil Guard?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u79	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Look, if it were an improvised agreement, as you say, and sinister, which seeks to hide something, it would be the incompetence of the governments of the People's Party for seven years; it would be to hide how we lost 12 thousand troops between civilian guards and national police; how they left a salary equalization agreement unfulfilled, without budget, without any meeting. I will tell you that yesterday's agreement only seeks to culminate in this wage equalization with an important effort in a difficult situation for the Spanish society as a whole. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u81	Mr. Suárez Lamata.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Judge No. 51 of Madrid ordered the Civil Guard to produce a report to study what had happened in the 8-M demonstrations and asked for discretion, and you knew that fact. That Spain is one of the deadliest countries in the world because of the coronavirus crisis must have some motive or cause, and perhaps in this report, Your Honor, there is some explanation for how this government has been acting. Last week you wanted to know the content of the report at all costs, an issue that prevents you from doing so by law, and you pressed Colonel Pérez de los Cobos through his superiors asking him to commit a crime. Subsequently, the Director General of the Civil Guard at her own request told her that it was a very sensitive issue for the Government. The truth is that Colonel Pérez de los Cobos has ceased. When you were a magistrate, when you were a judge, you asked the Civil Guard to comply with the law, and today, as a minister, you have ceased a civil guard precisely because of what a judge has told you. You have the same problem as Mr Sánchez, a double personality depending on when you are in the opposition and when you are in the government. What you call a loss of confidence is simply a revenge, and you have put the fan in motion: first, you have pointed out who the judge commissioned; today some already disqualified that report, and then they will point out to the judge and eventually disqualify the sentence. The same thing Berlusconi did, Your Honor, for many years in Italy. You, who demanded so much from the Civil Guard, have left them sold, at the foot of the horses, in Catalonia; you have ordered them to spy on the Spaniards who criticized the government, and today stop those who do not share their orders when they are illegal. And, to top it off, Your Honor, yesterday you improvised in the Council of Ministers intended to please the men and women of the Civil Guard, who are humiliated. Honor is not bought, Your Honor. If you believed a little of the dignity you had as a judge you would have resigned by now for interference in the judiciary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u83	Thank you, Mr. Suárez. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Suárez, the fact that you are a Member of Parliament does not give you the right to charge a minister or anyone without a minimum of proof. [[Applauds]] You read your statements in the Journal of Sessions; they do not deserve any reply in that regard. He's qualified, that's right. You know that an agreement like yesterday is not improvised. You are a public official, you are qualified national, and you know that this leads your phases, your processes and a debate with the Ministry of Finance on endowment, because we are on 2018 budgets and you did not budget the element of salary equalization. He was obviously on the General Commission of Secretaries of State and Assistant Secretaries last Thursday. These things don't improvise. They do not lie, they do not lack the truth and continue to use the State Security Forces and Bodies, they continue to use the Civil Guard, they continue to use the Judiciary. Look, I'm not talking about the judiciary or the report, which I don't know about. Let the teams form. You know what free-will positions are. As I have reminded you, you are qualified national, official, and I say to you again - as I have told your colleague in the parliamentary group - that when we are, it seems that we cannot, that we do not exist; when you are, it is effectiveness and efficiency. Your Honor, we don't interfere at all, I don't have a split character. When I was a judge, do you remember that on some occasions and by some resolutions I was also criticized? Just like you've gone up to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u85	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. CAROLINA SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHEN DID THE MINISTER REPORT THE EMERGENCY TO COMPLETE THE PAYMENT OF THE THIRD WAY OF NATIONAL POLICE AND CIVIL GUARDY SALARY EQUIPMENT? [[File number 180/000172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u86	Question from the representative of Carolina Spain Queen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u87	Minister, when did you warn of the urgency to complete the payment of salary equalization?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u88	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Spain. On June 7, 2018, when I took office as Minister of the Interior, I warned already of the urgency to comply with the wage equalization agreement, an agreement where we were able to observe, with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Territorial Policy, that there was no record of meeting, that there was no budget document, that there was no timetable to implement it; only propaganda and rhetoric. As I said, this Government, already at the beginning, within its schedule of legislative provisions for this year, as set out in February in the Internal Affairs Commission, established that the third tranche would be included in the budgets and, if not, through a real decree-law, as it has been. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u90	Mrs. Spain Queen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u91	Minister, you and your Government have reached the bottom. Mr. Marlaska, you're an irresponsible man. They banned a congress of doctors, a congress of evangelists, but not the 8-M demonstration, although they already knew it was a great focal point of contagion. Colonel Pérez de los Cobos now cease to fulfil his obligation, as he was investigating by court order the great mistake of the 8-M, which may be a crime. Don't lie, it's not remodeling, it's a very serious attack on the independence of the judiciary and an attack on the Civil Guard. You, who are a judge and who has been the strong man in the anti-terrorist struggle alongside the Civil Guard and the National Police, do you not feel ashamed to betray the Civil Guard in this way? Although you do not offend who you want, but who you can, and you cannot offend the Civil Guard because you have squandered all your prestige. Now it announces the payment of the third block of wage equality to stifle the great chaos, the great scandal of cessations and resignations, that is, the Minister of the Interior is dealing with wage equality. [[Several Members: Very well!]] What a government! And a few days ago he agreed with Bildu to repeal the labor reform. It's just that you don't have scruples. We are extremely glad that the salary equalization has been completed, if it was launched by the People's Party!, but I tell you that it is coming late and that you have also tarnished it with opportunism. The Civil Guard does not deserve this minister or the Spaniards this government. Now that the urgent thing is to save lives and get Spain out of the ICU, you want to hide your responsibility for the 8-M and the COVID by ceasing to the charges of the police forces. No one had ever fallen so low. With what you were, Mr. Marlaska! He has been infected with the ineptitude of Sanchez and Churches. Mr. Iglesias, his partner, said that in politics no forgiveness is asked, he resigns. Number two of the Civil Guard should not have resigned, you should have resigned. That is why, Mr Marlaska, if you have any dignity left, resign, and if not, resign too. Go away, Mr. Marlaska. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u92	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Spain, first of all, you are talking about non-interference in the Civil Guard, non-interference in the judiciary, but you are again issuing a sentence: 8-M was a crime. You are already telling the judiciary what you have to say, you are also chairing the report. I do not know the report, nor will I refer to it. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u95	All I really ask is law enforcement and what I ask of officials is neutrality. It's so important that's why you said it yourself, because I've been... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u96	Mr. Hispan, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u97	... 30 years judge. That's why neutrality is so important. That is what I ask of all the civil servants of this State. That's an important thing. Without that, there is no rule of law, I tell you again, but I will not go into that anymore. As for what you say about the contagion, the contagion of what? I'm still the same person. Yes, I am contaging myself: I am contaging myself with the good I receive from this group and from this coalition government. You're getting infected with something that's dangerous, as we're exposing you: you're getting infected with hate, you're getting infected with chryspation, you're getting infected from the far right, you're getting infected with VOX. Please be careful, return to the concert, but to the concert that has always made us all better; return to it. As far as I am concerned, I do not buy wills, I simply materialize an agreement and, look, at difficult times, because they have not requested this third stage; they have not asked it because our Security Forces and Bodies have coherence and solidarity with Spanish society. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY HAVE YOUR CRITERIA CHANGED ON THE OPPORTUNITY OF PAYING THE THIRD TREATMENT PRESENTED IN THE 2018 AGREEMENT ON THE SALARY EQUIPMENT OF OUR FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/000173]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u98	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u99	Thank you, President. Minister, why have you changed your view on the payment of the third tranche of salary equalisation provided for in the 2018 agreement?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u100	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Olona, as always, your parliamentary group and your spokesmen, as I have just recalled, when they speak, either they do not know what they are talking about or they simply lie, and they lie knowingly. Neither this Minister nor this Government has changed our view. No, no; this government and this minister make decisions for other reasons, and you know it. He knows that for two years my department has been working on the implementation of the wage equalization agreement, and I reminded him last February, in the Committee on the Interior, as I said, that immediately, as soon as possible and within the possibilities, the payment of the third tranche was to be made, and it is contained in the Journal of Sessions. Obviously, the sad fact of the pandemic has made it necessary to delay in the terms we are observing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u102	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, did Colonel Pérez de los Cobos receive a call on Sunday afternoon from General Berrocal, asking him about the course of judicial investigations? Minister, did Colonel Pérez de los Cobos receive a call this past Sunday afternoon from Lieutenant General Santafé, asking him for information on the report issued by the Judicial Police? Minister, did Colonel Pérez de los Cobos receive a call from the Director General of the Civil Guard on Sunday night at 10:30 a.m., informing him of his cessation because he had not reported on the report issued by the Civil Guard, by the Madrid command, in his duties as judicial police? Minister, did you order Generals Berrocal and Santafé to proceed to ask Colonel Pérez de los Cobos for information on ongoing judicial investigations? Minister Marlaska, did you order the Director General of the Civil Guard to proceed with the fulminant cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos for fulfilling his role?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister Marlaska, do you remember the Faisán case? Of course he remembers it, and he remembers it because you were the investigating magistrate, he remembers it of course the socialist bench and, of course, he remembers it the proetarian bench, which still thanks him. This judicial decision is yours, Minister Marlaska, because when you were a judge, what you did was order our Civil Guard and our National Police to proceed to maintain absolute secrecy and not to inform their superiors of judicial investigations. [[shows a document]] You have betrayed all your principles, if ever you had them, Minister Marlaska, and, worst of all, you have betrayed the men who put your life at risk to protect yours when you were threatened by the Vizcaya command, as is the case with Colonel Sánchez Corbí and Colonel Pérez de los Cobos. Two ads I want to make. Today, we have filed a complaint against the Director General of the Civil Guard and the Secretary of State for Security, because you are going to fall for your subordinates, Minister Marlaska. And next week, once it is allowed to resume legislative activity, it will be this group, with the proposed law of real wage equalization of the State Security Forces and Bodies, who will subject to the deliberation of this House the real wage equalization and not the unworthy smoke curtain that you have launched to cover up your shames. They are not going to get it, Minister Marlaska, and to our agents of the Civil Guard and the National Police we can only say strength and honor; resist. Others... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Olona, you do a weak favor to the people you have appointed, you do a weak favor to the Civil Guard with comments and expressions like those that you brought up today. You insist on your interventions, all plagued with falsehoods and disqualifications and, above all, denoting, as I have said before, a deep hatred. You, during these months, have not worried about the third section of the National Police or the Civil Guard at all. Now he's talking about a real match. I have told you again that the Security Forces and Corpses almost did not want to talk about this third stage by seeing the situation of most of Spanish society: losing and with economic difficulties. You are now talking about an obvious real match. I do not think that they are following you in that direction, because they are seeing the reality of society and the reality of other public officials; the reality of prison officials, to whom you refer today has not done so; the reality of civil servants, teachers, doctors, health care workers, who have been there on the front line and to whom you forget. We have state security forces and bodies that do not deserve comments like those you have expressed in this regard. He has announced the lawsuit against the secretary of state and the director of the Civil Guard, excellent professionals who have all my support, and I surrender here... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u106	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY IS THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR TRYING TO DETERMINE THE CITIZENS WHO PACIFICLY EXPRESSING THE PROTEST AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT IN THE CALLS? [[File number 180/000167]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u107	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u108	Thank you, Madam President. I take it the question is reproduced.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u109	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. You and your parliamentary group have already made some references to me here at the seat of Congress. I've been called a censor, I've been told that I abuse the Constitution, I've been told that I use public money to buy media protection, that I'm unworthy, that I'm a criminal and that they're going to hook me up and they're going to guard me from prison officials. Now he adds that I fear the citizens that you say that, peacefully, they manifest themselves in concentrations - you say - uncommunicated and that they endanger - I tell you - sometimes health, that which we no longer talk about. Today, in this session of government control, we do not talk about health, we do not talk about the health crisis, we do not talk about economic reconstruction, social reconstruction and - I would say something more about you - the reconstruction of values. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u111	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u112	Thank you, Madam President. I have spoken to you about nothing in this House, and of course today we are going to talk about health, democratic health, and the health of this rule of law that you are putting at risk. Minister, we knew that you intended to frighten the citizens who, peacefully and spontaneously, express their protest on the street and we knew that you tried to prevent the VOX demonstrations last week, many of which could finally be celebrated because we were right in the courts. But now we also know that you charge against those officials who resist your pressures. I'm going to talk about you today. His conduct in the Perez de los Cobos case has been deeply miserable, lying and allegedly criminal, as the judge himself just reminded him yesterday. It is frankly miserable to pretend to cease someone simply because it fulfills its duty to respect the law. It is miserable to pretend to interfere in an ongoing judicial investigation trying to use a junior as a chivato. It reminds me a lot of the Faisán case, Minister. It is miserable to try to devalue the courageous gesture of the resignation of the Lieutenant General by expressing the protest of the entire Civil Guard and it is frankly miserable, Minister, to try to buy the honor and silence of the Civil Guard, lying here, in this Chamber, with an improvised salary rise yesterday, and the proof is that it is contained in an additional provision of a decree on agricultural measures. What a shame, Minister! His behavior has been deeply lying. Just listen to what the Director General of the Civil Guard said to confirm it, when she told the colonel that this ongoing investigation was dangerous for the Government and that the Government therefore needed to know what the Civil Guard had handed over to the judge. It is a shame, Minister, all your actions in this case, and you have no doubt that above you and this government there is Spain, democracy and also our beloved and respected Civil Guard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u113	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Gil Lázaro, you may believe that it is an abuse of freedoms that is somewhat simple as demanding compliance with the rules, guaranteeing public health in a state of alarm, and preventing its non-compliance. You, as we all do, must abide by the rules and distances of security, and I remind you that since March 14 - more than seventy days - the whole Spanish population has done so. As much as I repeat a lie is not going to be true. You are not above the law or the Constitution, make it clear, and do not patrimony the Civil Guard or any other State institution. Don't say falsehoods. There has been and will be no interference in another state power as long as I am Minister of the Interior. [[Rumors]] I'm not going to say more than I said. You know that there is a report that I say again that I do not know and that it is before the judicial authority, where it must be, for it to be valued, for it to be studied. Where has there been interference? You tell me. [[Rumors]] On other occasions the reports did not arrive...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u115	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u116	... because people were being changed so that the reports would not be made. [[Applauds]] That's what happened. People were changed so that the reports would not be made. [[Prolonged applause, with some ladies and gentlemen standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u117	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK DOES THE SALARIAL EQUIPMENT OF THE FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE KEY? [[File number 180/000169]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u118	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u119	Minister, in Citizens we are very pleased that you have unlocked the wage equalization that has cost Citizens so much to introduce in 2018 into the budgets of the People's Party. You owed them already from that moment on. However, what we find a real indignity, in such an important thing for the families of these workers, of these state officials, is that you use it as a smokescreen, pretending that we do not look at the cessation of Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos. Look, in December 2019 you said you weren't going to take on this salary equalization until there were no budgets. In February 2020, the government vetoed wage equality, and we were not in an epidemic or a state of alarm. Now we are waiting for the European rescue and there is no longer any budgetary obstacle to wage equality? Do you think the police are stupid? Do you think you're going to buy your silence? You're wrong, Mr. Marlaska.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u120	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. It is true that for the approval of the 2018 budgets you demanded salary equalization in terms, but, as exquisite as they were, then did not budget the amount for those extremes. You tell me about buying. Look, no; you know what happened in February and how it was established - as I said earlier, although it seems you don't want to listen to me - that it was going to go on budgets. It was agreed in those terms and it was said that, if the budgets were not feasible, it would be in a royal decree-law. And that's written in the government's legislative calendar for the first quarter. What happened in March? Evidently, the alarm state resulting from the pandemic. What happened to the budget line? Budgets for 2020 are virtually impossible - we will prepare some different 2021s - but we understood that it could not and should not wait. You also know, as state counsel, that there is a Committee of Secretaries and Undersecretaries, which met on Thursday. It was in the royal decree-law - you know - and there it is. Obviously, the remodeling of the ministry - of people, of changes - has nothing to do with it. What would have happened if we had done it the next week? I am fortunate that the development of management has led to it this past week. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u122	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u123	Don Fernando, you in your government have broken the rules that have always governed the relations between political power and administration. You do not respect a neutral, apolitical, technical administration that seeks general interests; you want a servile administration, and what you do is use the coercion and threats of cessation so that the officials, the honest officials of this country, are afraid of losing their salary or truncating their professional career. You, of course, are quite an example. He ceased the head of the UCO; he ceased command of the National Police asking for masks; he has just ceased Diego Pérez de los Cobos; he has obtained the resignation of the DAO; his Government practically ceased Fernando Garea in the EFE Agency; he did not revalidate María José Segarra. Do you remember that the state's attorney, head of criminal justice, was stopped for not signing a letter that was inconvenient to the Government? That sounds a lot to me about the lack of trust. Was it the lack of real trust? You've already been asked, but you didn't answer, did you order Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos? Was it you who ordered the cessation? These would be the questions you would ask in the Faisán case when you were investigating it, but now the prosecutor is the Spaniards and you are the one investigated. You know what their rights are, don't take them in.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u124	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Bal, given the dramatic excess you have developed, I am convinced that what you have said about my way of acting or my relationship with the rest of the powers is not believed. I don't usually customize, but today I'm going to do it, because you've talked, if I remember correctly, about a state attorney, that I don't know what happened to him. That state attorney is now the spokesman of a political group; it has not been two months or three and you are the voice. I am obviously a progressive person and I am in a progressive government - that is why I am - but I do not belong to the Socialist Party, I have not integrated into it. I am not the spokesman for the Socialist Party, I am not on the steering committee of the Socialist Party, but I am delighted to belong to a government of the Socialist Party, Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u126	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT SUPPORT MEASURES IS PROVIDED FOR [[EAJ-PNV]] IMPULSING FOR THE AUTOMOTION SECTOR? [[File number 180/000153]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u127	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u128	Thank you, President. Minister, the automotive sector is the industrial sector that is most severely affected by the health and economic crisis, a sector that is under the perfect storm, as COVID has come to it when it was not going through its best time and, moreover, when it was in full transformation of its own productive model or business model: product change towards decarbonisation, obligation to comply with emission reductions and even uncertainty in the regulation of certain technologies that had resulted in a decrease in sales. The expansion of the virus and, of course, its effect on productive activity has put into check a sector with a high impact on the economy, a sector which is key and which, moreover, has dragged the auxiliary industry, for three main reasons: for the stoppage of suppliers, which has led to the fracture of their own supply model, based on a supply chain of parts based on just in time, or for the stoppage of factories, which has led to a collapse in production and also to the stoppage of car sales as a result of the confinement of consumers. A crisis, moreover, in which we will discover that not only will the factors or motivations of purchase change, but it will also change the way in which the vehicles are to be bought, the way in which they are to be manufactured and the way in which they are to be distributed. And all this in a context of economic crisis, with a GDP collapse of around 9.2% and an increase in unemployment at best. In view of this situation, what measures does the Ministry plan to promote for the automotive sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u129	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u130	Thank you, President. The first thing I would like to move to is that the automotive sector is a strategic sector on the government's agenda, especially this week in which, as you know, we are defending Nissan's plants in Spain. Secondly, I would like to thank you for the support of your parliamentary group for the extensions of the Royal Alarm Order, but also for the package of economic measures that are allowing workers to be protected and to maintain the business fabric of this country, because we share with you the need for measures to support the sector, as you have said, badly hit by the health crisis, a crisis that we have tried to alleviate by adopting an ambitious plan of measures to support the automotive sector, but also the component auxiliary industry. By way of example, EUR 3181 million of funding for the automotive sector has been injected through the ICO line of endorsements and ERTEs are protecting 40 000 workers in the automotive sector. But we have also thought about the next day, and we are developing an ambitious strategy for sustainable and connected mobility, which includes an update of the comprehensive support plan for the automotive sector, which, as you know, we approved in March last year, which aims to maintain the competitiveness and leadership that the Spanish automotive sector has today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u131	Mrs. Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u132	Thank you, Minister. The truth is that we agree with all these short-term measures, but we also think that demand support measures are still essential to renew the car fleet, and I am not referring only to the Moves Plan, to boost the electric vehicle; we must also encourage the purchase of those vehicles that are more efficient and low-emission vehicles, in a short period of time and provided that they carry a flattening, as has also been done by France's plan, approved yesterday, and in line with Brussels and the new Climate Change Act, which no longer provides for the marketing of these types of vehicles. On the other hand, we will also ask you for a coordinated plan to support the industry in the medium term, to reactivate the investment with concrete measures so that the factories, suppliers, dealers and after-sales can address with real financial muscle the part due to the COVID, but also that transformation of the business model. The European competitors, minister, like France, have already put on the table a very ambitious plan. Here, too, these specific support measures with demand support are needed...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we share a common objective, and that is that the automotive sector must emerge strengthened from the health crisis. As I said, we are currently working on a package of measures to support the sector, with investments aimed at producing more sustainable models in Spain. In this regard, I would like to welcome projects such as the one being developed by Cidetec, based in San Sebastián, which, as you know, is at the head of a consortium, made up of thirteen partners, which seeks to reactivate the battery manufacturing industry in Europe and make it more competitive. And I want to announce to you that we will soon convene the sustainable and connected mobility table, which brings together different public and private actors in the sector, to boost this mobility ecosystem that strengthens our sector and contributes to the generation of employment and wealth. We look forward to the support of your parliamentary group to work together on the social and economic reconstruction agreement, in which we are convinced that the automotive sector will play a relevant role. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u135	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent call by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the urgent measures that the Government is currently planning to implement to recover and relaunch tourism, trade, the energy sector, the electro-intensive, metallurgical and other related industries and the automobile industry, whose competitiveness in some of them was already in the process of recession at the end of 2019, but which has worsened dramatically in 2020 as a result of the health emergency of COVID-19, in order to avoid the destruction of thousands of jobs of the highest quality and to stop the decline in the GDP of Spain and of many autonomous communities such as Asturias. For your defence, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism. You are the depositary of an extraordinary responsibility within the Government, which concerns several of the strategic sectors of greatest economic and social importance for Spain and which are major job generators, the main priority for our country yesterday, today and tomorrow. With the immense and painful health tragedy of COVID-19 and its collateral economic damage, whose severe dimensions are difficult to calibrate but are devastating, it would be expected that the Government of unknown progress would take political action in line with the need for reactivation and reactivation of the industry, especially the electro-intensive, metallurgical and other related sectors, that of the automobile, tourism and trade, whose competitiveness in some cases was already clearly in the process of recession before the arrival of the coronavirus. The main object of this inquiry is to know what is being done to favour these sectors, because in other countries of the European Union counterparts to our governments have already taken decisions to protect them, hastening to implement preventive measures to prevent the destruction of their productive fabric and promoting agreements at the highest level with their companies. Mrs Maroto, first of all and as a matter of priority, I ask you and I demand you to act as Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism for the implementation of the government's policy in these three areas, as the State's Official Gazette has required for two years - I repeat, for two years -. It is inexplicable to all citizens that you do not even appear in the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction. You do not appear, as if the industry, trade and tourism in Spain were not relevant. So remember Mr Sánchez and Mr Redondo that, according to the National Institute of Statistics, industry, without construction, accounts for 15.9% of GDP and tourism for 12.3%. And the CEO's report attributes 13 % of GDP to trade. In total, they represent 41.2% of Spain's GDP. And in employment the percentage is similar, 41%. How can the 41% of GDP and employment policy in Spain be left out of the Commission for the Social and Economic Reconstruction of Spain? Minister Maroto gives the feeling of being missing, when not supplanted by some colleague who acts as a harmful and dangerous invading minister, such as Mrs Ribera, or some funambulist, such as Mr Garzón. I remind you that invasive species, colloquially said in ecological language, are recommended to eradicate them in time. In Asturias we know a lot about invasive species, such as the plumer of the pampa and the Asian hornet, in addition to Mrs Ribera. What does the fourth vice president, dressed in green, do, mastering the national industry, permanently harassing the automotive sector, at risk for relocations of the main manufacturers in Spain, and the component sector, threatened by massive closures? Minister, you are firmly defending your powers and do not admit toxic interference. Recently, Mr. Garzón has also supplanted her, who has little or nothing to do and maintains himself by demonstrating an intruder or funambulist vocation, that is, his ability to develop advantageously between various opposing tendencies and opinions, especially political ones. What do you think, Minister, of the consumer portfolio manager underestimating the tourism sector here, in the parliamentary seat, that last 2019 served 84 million visitors? And its penultimate intrusion, this time against the airlines, while the German Government announces aid of EUR 9 billion to Lufthansa? How long are you going to allow the damage to your skills and sectors that are key to the economy and employment to be done? It is a lack of respect to invade the field of action of other ministers and deepen with their verborea and incontinence in the helplessness of these sectors, capital for our economy and vital for the livelihood of millions of workers. What has the Government of Spain done to help trade in such a critical situation as the COVID-19 crisis, which has brought thousands of small and large establishments to a close? I did not find a single reference to its small and large trade, perhaps covered by complaints from the entire sector by surface limitations, the default of employees' ERTEs and the lack of liquidity promised to SMEs and self-employed. And with tourism, what has our Government done in the face of the emergence of an essential sector of the national economy, disheartening on high season eves to the distressed guilds of hotels, restaurants, cafes, bars, agencies? While Italy, France and Portugal already have ambitious aid plans in place to relaunch tourism, the Government, our Government concentrates on travel and leisure restrictions that turn profitability and full employment into a chimera. This is the sector itself which has had to be fully implemented in drawing up contingency plans, cleaning protocols, information, investment in equipment, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, industry has also not rid itself of the consequences of this bad government. The drift came a long time before the coronavirus, and only in Asturias was dismantling and desertification a growing reality with its own names, such as the factories of ArcelorMittal, Alcoa, Vesuvius and a long et cetera of companies, many engaged in closure. It is enough to note that in the past year 2019 we have already lost almost 5000 jobs, with dramatic consequences for workers and their families. Mrs. Maroto, do you know what is happening in Asturias and Galicia with the resale of the plants of the ancient Alcoa after that sale operation to Parter Capital that you endorsed and presented as a success a year ago? Do you know what is happening in Asturias in ArcelorMittal with galvanized lines, wire rod, synthesis A and a high oven already standing, leaving some 2000 employees of Gijón and Avilés out of business? The government of Pedro Sánchez, after condemning the mining basins to ruin, shutting down the sector forever and leaving the reindustrialisation for ever, also applied to the unaltered closure of the power plants of Lada and Soto de la Barca. And while all this happens, Spain buys highly polluting electricity from Morocco. Two years of Pedro Sánchez' presidency and industry continues to suffocate by energy costs and without the promised status of the electric intensive consumer. And our companies, like households, businesses and SMEs, continue to pay one of the highest light receipts in the whole of the European Union, making the competitiveness of our products unattainable, because of the high differential in the price paid by our large industry vis-à-vis its European competitors. The sector is desperate to call for measures to support re-industrialisation, and the Asturians are also demanding that they be aware of the real threats to jobs in the aluminium sector, in the case of the former Alcoa, which is now being exposed to a culebrón, from which official opacity has not prevented them from knowing highly suspicious commercial operations, as a result of a sale operation protected by their department. In the steel sector, enormous problems have been reported in the past two years, ranging from the massive arrival of non-Community steel in Europe to the high environmental costs added to the emission allowance and energy transition market. ArcelorMittal's loss of activity acts as a cluster bomb, with destructive effects on our entire business fabric, formed by a large number of small auxiliary companies that maintain thousands of industrial jobs. In this sense, once again I denounce here, in Congress, that the producing countries that compete with us do not play with the same rules and in Europe we are losing the game. France and Italy have been moving for months. What has our government done, Mrs Maroto? There is an industrial disaster over the automotive industry, with relocations affecting both the car and component factories. Germany has already applied itself to the development of important tax aid measures. What does our government expect? In France yesterday, President Macron presented a specific car plan, with EUR 8 billion in aid to the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain the collapse of industrial activity was observed by the National Institute of Statistics last week. With data updated to March, the annual rate, as a percentage, fell in the whole of Spain almost 14%, ceding in autonomous communities with an industrial profile, such as the Basque Country, with less than 25.8%; Murcia, with less than 18.1%; and Asturias, with less than 17%. The INE itself, when analyzing with its indicators the first quarter of this year 2020, places Asturias, by contrast, at the head of the communities most affected by the industrial fall, with a 12.6% loss, more than triple the national average, which was 5.1%. With these official indicators, I hope that you will explain what the government is doing in the face of so unusual varapalo, which comes from behind and has been sharpened in 2020, even before the state of alarm by the coronavirus, which is heading its twelfth week in force. We do not know what interpretation the ministry makes of these unequivocal and capitalized signs of industrial emergency, and we do not know it, minister, because your department remains impassive in the face of these serious symptoms. I am asking you today, Mrs Maroto, on behalf of the Forum, to explain to us what you have done or do for the electro-intensive industry or for the automobile industry, for its components and concessions, and for its competitiveness through tax cuts and reduction of energy costs; for SMEs, for small and large businesses, for tourism. In short, I ask her to explain the concrete measures - I repeat, concrete - that her ministry has taken. Don't tell me what people who supplant it do. But to help these sectors we need aid and we need to apply it now. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u138	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the question you have raised in order to be able to explain, in fact, what the Government is doing in such important areas as industry, trade and tourism. As his lordship has well explained, Spain and all the autonomous communities are facing a delicate situation as a result of the pandemic caused by the COVID-19. We are aware of this situation and, at all events, we are indifferent to it. I hope in my speech to clarify what the Spanish Government has done and, above all, what it will do in the coming weeks. From the very beginning we have acted decisively to maintain the productive fabric, to protect employment, but also to ensure income and that no one is left behind. You said if I know what's going on in Asturias. Indeed, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in Asturias, as you know, the impact of the health crisis has been lower than in other regions because of its own productive structure and due mainly to two factors: the first is the greatest burden of the large industry and also of essential sectors, especially the agri-food industry, which have maintained its activity, and the second of the factors is the least dependence on international tourism and, therefore, the least risk of contagion. In addition, the measures taken by the Government of the Principality have undoubtedly made it possible to control the contagion, have been exemplary in early detection and have allowed Asturias at present to be already in phase 2 of the descalation. Your Honor, I am convinced that you share with me that without health there is no economy. The Government has always prioritized above all saving lives, maintaining businesses and protecting jobs; in this we will spare no effort. But I asked what the government has done. In your speech, Mr Martínez Oblanca, you made no reference to the ambitious safety net that we have approved to help businesses and workers as they resume their activities. In this connection, let me remind you of some of the measures that have been adopted here in Parliament, and which have not, of course, been supported by your parliamentary group; measures such as the ICO's endorsement line, which is currently financing more than 6000 companies in Asturias for more than EUR 1 billion; or the flexibility of the ERTE, the temporary employment regulation dossiers, which have benefited specifically 52 700 workers in Asturias, a measure which, as you know, has been extended until 30 June, the result of the agreement between the social partners and the Government. And with regard to the extraordinary termination benefit, which, as you know, entails a temporary exemption from social security contributions, Mr Martínez Oblanca, more than 32,200 self-employed persons in Asturias have benefited, a coverage rate of 45%. All these measures help to weave a safety net that is protecting workers, but also maintaining the business fabric throughout the national territory and, specifically, as I have pointed out, in Asturias. But we have also set up deferrals of tax debts that have claimed more than 14 000 taxpayers in Asturias, and more than 80 000 have benefited from the extension of the deadline for filing tax returns. All these measures, Your Honor, have been implemented by the Government in a short time to deal with a pandemic that has generated unprecedented economic disruption and that has been baptized by the International Monetary Fund itself as the great blockade. Now that we are already in the process of descalation, the Government, as you know, has offered an agreement on social and economic reconstruction to the autonomous communities, to the parliamentary groups, to the social actors, in short, to the whole of society. You said why I don't participate in the Reconstruction Commission. Ask one of the parliamentary groups in this House and, in particular, the Bureau if anyone has proposed to me. Have you proposed to me, Your Honor, that I be on the Committee on Reconstruction and Development and that we be able to talk about what is of interest to industry, trade and tourism? Perhaps it would have been a good opportunity, because of the importance it attaches to it, to have asked the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism to appear. But I told him that we are offering society this great agreement, an agreement that requires everyone's help. We all have to help build a plan, because we have to think about the future and that means thinking about the people and companies that are going through the worst. It is an agreement to generate confidence, stability and certainty, which is, ladies and gentlemen, what Spain and Europe need to start with speed but also with the maximum health guarantees economic and social recovery. Your Honor, it is time for useful policy and solutions. The citizens are mostly asking for agreements. I hope that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss in this House the public policies that each parliamentary group proposes and to agree on a just and sustainable way out of the crisis. From the very beginning, the ministry that I run has held numerous coordination meetings with autonomous communities and social actors and direct contact with the sectors of industry, trade and tourism. And I do not say this, Your Honor; ask the great industry of this country, the most representative associations of commerce or the tourism sector, ask them if they have had contact with this minister and this government. But you were referring to some strategic sectors that I would like to point out. The automotive and associated industry sector has been hit by this crisis, by the paralysis of supply chains, but also by the fall in demand. I have already said in my previous question that this is a strategic sector on the government's agenda. We are working on an ambitious sustainable mobility strategy that includes updating the support plan we adopted in March. And among the measures contained in this plan I would like to highlight, as you know, the Moves Programme, which will undoubtedly stimulate the demand for alternative vehicles, but also for the recharge infrastructure that this country needs. We will soon, as I have said, set up the sustainable and connected mobility table to bring together the entire value chain sector with different public and private institutions and promote a mobility ecosystem that will maintain the leadership that the Spanish automotive sector has today. But we have also thought about the medium and long term. There is no doubt that supply measures must be put in place. We need to mobilize resources to act on R & D+i in the production of more sustainable models in Spain. And you pointed out France and other countries. See, just two weeks ago Spain led a joint statement that we presented to the Competitiveness Council to call for support for Europe in the automotive sector, and neither France nor Germany supported that statement. Spain therefore also defends the interests of the automotive industry in Europe, as it cannot be otherwise. You have also told me about the large electro-intensive industry in Asturias and I tell you that it is essential, that it has been essential for this government. Perhaps, Mr Martínez Oblanca, you have not met any Minister of Industry who has met more with the electrointensive industry than I have, and I assure you, I have had and still have a lot of contact with that sector. I have always defended - you know - to maintain productive and industrial capacities, to preserve employment in our industrial plants and to accompany companies in improving competitiveness. The electro-intensive industry - you said - has been affected for a long time by a lack of competitiveness. And we've been working on this for two years. But I would like to remind you that until the government of Pedro Sánchez arrived in Moncloa we had been seven years without industrial policy in this country; there was no industrial interlocutor, there was, in short, no Minister of Industry. Therefore, that is the inheritance that we receive. We are working on it in these months, before the COVID-19 arrived and with greater intensity in these weeks. As you know, at European level Spain is supporting ensuring equal conditions, as in the European carbon border tax, which is essential to maintain competitiveness, but also to avoid relocations. We have also promoted national measures to support the sector so that our companies can compete on an equal footing with the countries in our environment. We will soon bring to this House the Spanish reserve fund for guarantees of electro-intensive entities, which, as you know, supports long-term bilateral energy contracts, and, in parallel, we will also approve the status of the electro-intensive consumer. Both the border tax and the fund or the statute will, Your Honor, be decisive instruments to ensure the competitiveness of our large industry, an industry that has to gain weight in our productive model. And for this it is necessary for the reconstruction pact to include a programme of support for private investment, projects on environmental sustainability, energy efficiency, climate change, circular economy and investments in R & D+i, such as the use of new technologies and digital tools to make progress towards industry 4.0 as a lever for innovation in production. And you were also talking about the tourism sector, which is undoubtedly one of the sectors most affected by the health crisis. You will agree with me, Your Honor, that we have to regain confidence in the Spanish brand as a safe destination, to also recover economic activity in a framework that can guarantee the safety and health of people who come to enjoy our wonderful tourist products, and to this is key coordination with our European partners, because, as you know, in the countries of Europe is where the main issuing markets are located. In this regard, we are working to establish uniform and shared protocols by all Member States to also provide sufficient funds for the recovery of tourism activity and to support businesses and workers in the future reconstruction plan of the European Union, with specific attention to the territories most affected by the high tourist dependency, such as the island and outermost regions. The Spanish Government, Your Honor, is firmly committed and working very actively for tourism to play a leading role also in the economic and social reconstruction agreement, in which I hope that we will all do our best to get all its strengths out of this country. I finish now, because I am running out of time, encouraging you, Your Honor, to move from the apocalyptic phrases to focus on finding constructive solutions, taking advantage of the current moment to transform our industrial capacities and strengthen resilience, to boost small business, but also to bet on safe and sustainable tourism. As I have pointed out, we have acted with determination and speed to regain confidence, offer certainty and leave no one behind, no company, no person and, ultimately, no territory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u139	Thank you very much, Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you too, Minister, for your intervention, although I will have to include you again in the category of evanescent answers, because you have virtually not answered some of the questions I raised from this rostrum. I would warn you, Mrs Maroto, that it would have been pointless if I had proposed to you as a member of the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction, since the four proposals I made as representatives, that of four extraordinary experts, were rejected by the Socialists and the United Podemos. Therefore, if you want to appear on this Commission, ask Mr Sánchez and Mr Redondo not to be asked to the last in the line of the Congress of Deputies. Some issues you have commented on. The Government in the field of tourism is responsible for a series of equivocal messages, occurrences and misrepresentations that have led to the disaster in the sector. The single command for the health emergency announced mandatory fourteen-day quarantines for international travellers to Spain, and that had two consequences. The first is that it was an absolutely dissuasive measure in full holiday planning, which sunk the expectations of French and German tourism, which account for almost 50% of our visitors. The second consequence is that other countries took the reciprocal measure with the Spanish. But, let us see, Mrs Maroto, if your Government does not allow the Spaniards from one neighbouring province to travel to another, if we cannot go from Asturias to Cantabria or from Asturias to Galicia, how come the French, the French minister, will not come to say that they do not move from France to Spain? It is you who have started this situation with these absolutely misleading and heartbreaking messages for our tourism. Please take note of the measures requested by the Tourism Bureau. Avoid the wreckage that is about to arrive for the whole sector. They allow the activity to be restarted on 15 June, not only in view of its survival, but also the efforts of the sector to comply with the twenty-one sanitary measures and protocols. You have escaped again from the subject of Alcoa. The agreement was protected by you and now your Asturian correspondents are calling for the nationalization of Alcoa. Look, in Asturias there's nothing to nationalize, much less after Hunosa's closure. Everything needs to be rationalized, starting with the rules of the game of competitive electric rates, which cause this disguised deserter of sanchoist ecology. Nor have you been very eloquent about the drift of ArcelorMittal, which is the engine of much of Asturias' economy. Here we go too, very late. A European reference country such as Germany has proposed the energy transition by applying both an industrial transformation plan. Please copy the one that works well in other countries. The energy transition and the industrial one have to be synchronized, Minister. You don't have to go ahead with each other, you have to sync, because it's the only way to avoid the destruction of jobs and create alternatives. Finally, it has loudly avoided - I insist, loudly - referring to the industrial data of last week's National Institute of Statistics, official data on the great industrial decline of GDP in Spain. Minister, please don't parapet behind the coronavirus to avoid a reality that comes from many months ago. Yesterday, the National Institute of Statistics said that the annual rate has suffered, Madam responsible for Spanish industry, a drop of 8.4%. Attention, it is the biggest drop since 1975, since this statistical series was installed; annual rate from May 2019 to April 2020, negative historical record half a century later. Madam President, I conclude by announcing the introduction, at the moment, of a motion resulting from this inquiry. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u141	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, as I announced at the beginning of the sitting, we interrupted it to keep a minute of silence in memory of the people killed by the COVID pandemic19. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u143	To conclude the debate on this question, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, the truth is that I can't get you to understand the arguments we put on the table or to share them. He says I'm shielding myself in the COVID. The problem is that for you it seems that the COVID has not passed through Spain, that it has not passed through the world; it seems that it has not caused an unprecedented paralysis of the world economy and it seems that we do not have to carry out this country project among all. I was wondering why we didn't open already on June 15th and why we can't go from one province to another. I don't know if you think we have any impact on the COVID crisis and that we are now capable of being the first in the class, the fastest, without taking any risks. We have to be very careful in the process of de-escalation. We have been so with the opening up of economic activities and we have to be so from the point of view of mobility, because we still have to stabilize the number of contagions, because that will protect the health of the population. I have already told you that without health there is no economy and therefore that is our top priority. Having said that, I insist on the arguments that I have transferred to you. We have brought many royal decrees to this House that somehow sought to protect the industrial fabric - also the Asturian - and all the workers of this country. But we have also been working for these two years to support and support industry, especially in Asturias. In these two years we have mobilized more than 100 million euros in Asturias. Yes, Mr Martínez Oblanca, 32.43 million in COVID grants and almost 70 million euros in the reindustrialisation programme; more than 100 million that you will find insufficient because it does not even put them on your agenda. You are concerned about companies and workers, especially in Asturias, but I would ask you what your contribution to this pandemic has been. What has your contribution been through your vote in this House? I'll remind you of that. Let us go to the legislative initiatives that the Government has brought to Congress through the Royal Decree-Laws 4/2020, 9/2020, 10/2020, 11/2020, 12/2020 and 15/2020. I am going to refer to the real decree-laws 9/2020 and 15/2020, which worry you so much, because you know that they regulate the flexibility of ERTS. Do you know what your vote was? He voted against in Royal Decree 9 and abstained in 12. And you know who you vote against the 9th? With VOX. And do you know who he abstained from? With the rest of the groups who understand that this safety net, which they then claim, is not enough and that this country needs to get out of a health crisis without prudence. Look, at such a complicated time for this country, do you know what your contribution has been to the extension of the Royal Warning Decree? I will also remind you: on 6 May he voted against extending the alarm decree and did so with VOX, and last week he also voted against and did so, in this case, with VOX and the People's Party. These are the facts, Your Honor, and not the words you then say in this rostrum. But there is something more curious, do you know how many oral questions and urgent inquiries regarding industry in Asturias you brought to the House during the Rajoy government? Well, I'll remind you: zero, Your Honor. You brought zero initiatives to the plenary because there was - in your view - no concern for the industry, despite the problems that you have been dragging, as you have pointed out. But the truth, Your Honor, is that it is a coherent thing not to talk about industry because there was no ministry and, therefore, there was no concern, no dialogue and not even industrial policy. These are the facts, Mr Martínez Oblanca, and the rest are your words. Your Honor, I say this to you with all due respect that you know I have: it would be advisable for you to stop doing the same opposition that the People's Party and VOX are doing. I sincerely hope, Mr Martínez Oblanca, that as we continue with this burning land strategy, there will be many years in the opposition, not only here but also in Asturias, because the citizens are asking us to come to great agreements, to deal with people's problems. The current parliamentary debate should focus on strengthening public policies and I hope to have its proposals, which we will certainly discuss in detail at the Bureau of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that we are working day and night to put the country to work in this new normality, but with the maximum health guarantees. You know that the Government of Asturias is also very responsible and I am convinced that if we all go on the same boat, we will get out before and, most importantly, we will get reinforced. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u145	Thank you, Madam, Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE VICE-President FORTY-FOURTH MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE ON EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES RELATING TO THE PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF AN INTEGRATED PLAN OF SUSTAINABLE, SAFE AND EFFECTIVE MOVEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF THE COVID-19 HEALTH CRISIS AND THE NEXT DISCHANGE. [[Madam Sabanas Nadal]] [[File number 172/000032]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u146	Urgent inquiry by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Ms Sabanes Nadal, to the fourth Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge regarding the extraordinary measures relating to the planning and implementation of a comprehensive plan for sustainable, safe and effective mobility in the context of the COVID-19 health crisis and the next descalation. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u147	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone and everyone. Minister, from More CountryEquo we present this inquiry today because we are aware, like you, that the treatment of mobility will be a fundamental element in this period of descalation and return to normality. We will find ourselves - in fact we are already there - facing one of the greatest challenges in our history with regard to sustainable mobility. And I'm telling you, not moving forward is going to be involution. With the crisis of COVID19, the warning measures and the confinement, as well as the obviously impossible practice of displacement, we have seen a historic and unprecedented drop in pollution levels, which has shown even the most negatists that the private vehicle is a determinant and triggering factor in non-compliance with pollution levels, is evident. That is precisely why the countries of our environment and many cities in our country have also rushed to plan the descalation in four elements that are very important. Firstly, the improvement of railways, bus networks and neighbourhoods. Secondly, the reconfiguration of public spaces to promote social distancing, pedestrian safety or the reservation for public transport. Thirdly, the creation of temporary bicycle infrastructure, such as France, Berlin or Valladolid, without going any further, with cyclist runners to encourage its use as a means of transport. Fourthly, changes in planning and the improvement of public transport financing to promote their effectiveness. However, in our country we have seen - quite amazingly - campaigns where the health authorities recommended, as the first element of safety, the use of the private vehicle. A modal shift would be very negative, a catastrophe of enormous dimensions. Some officials have even come to say that only 30% of travellers will be able to use public transport. These data would, of course, be profoundly negative for pollution - there are premature deaths resulting from pollution - and even for the possible spread of the virus and future pandemics. After a few days in phase 0 and phase 1, I'll give you some data. Private vehicle transport has grown three times more than public transport by entering phase 1. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, can this country really be allowed to drop public passenger transport? I will give you some data to see if that is really feasible: public transport operators charge EUR 13 billion a year and national passenger transport generates more than 149 000 direct jobs - to make a comparison, industry generates 127 000, without going into controversy, but by putting the data - urban transport accounts for 45 000 direct jobs and almost 200 000 indirect jobs; we have a network of passenger transport on buses of about 75 000 kilometres, which regularly communicates more than 8000 population centres, of municipalities, along and wide our geography; and it is a sector that moves every year - look at the figure - 3.5 billion travellers. That's the volume we're talking about. We are also talking, Minister of Industry, about a very powerful body industry or very important and innovative mobile material in our country, such as Talgo, Castrosua, CAF or Irizar that have invested in large doses of innovation to integrate electric mobility. However, as of today, the public transport sector, including infrastructure and aid for bicycles and other services such as taxis, has not been able to benefit, ladies and gentlemen, from any of the aid articulated by the Government, but very important conditions have been legislated that have generated extraordinary costs in disinfection and safety, maintaining offers that are logically far superior to those necessary to ensure the safety of travellers. What does this mean? That this creates a no-minor problem, because you know that 50% of the revenue comes from the fare and 50% from the cost of travellers. That is, when we move that sustainability to them, we end up putting at risk - in fact, they already accumulate some very important losses - the sustainability of passenger transport in our country, no more or less. That is why three things are urgent. Firstly, we know that the issue of public transport financing has never been properly addressed. We therefore need, more than ever before, a law on the integral financing of public transport, as most countries in our environment, by the way, have - we are the negative exception -. Secondly, in addition to the funding law, we now urgently need to deploy a strategy for sustainable and secure mobility. And there is no doubt a need for an extraordinary fund for public passenger transport and sustainable mobility. We have been talking about co-governance for many days, talking about coordination and understanding between different administrations. If there is a sector where coordination and co-governance are vital, it is in the public passenger transport sector. Therefore, I ask you three things: funding laws, an extraordinary fund for a secure mobility plan and a capacity for understanding and co-governance in a sector that is vital to our country. Ladies and gentlemen, in this question we are talking about post-coronavirus mobility and about aligning ourselves with Europe in the objectives of the green agreement to generate investment and employment; that is clear. But I also want to talk to you about something else, I want to talk to you about 150 000 workers who start their vehicles every day from the coaches, from the lineheads, from the long-distance lines, from the trains, from the nearby buses, to carry out 35 billion trips annually. I want to talk to you about those people who start these vehicles every day, but also about the people who use them, the people who move to take care of their families and the most vulnerable sectors, to go to their work daily and raise our economy, ladies and gentlemen, yes, raise our economy. They and they also make the country work every day; they and they are, ladies and gentlemen, really the early Spain. That is not the case, it is not the cities that are premeditatedly stuck with their high-end cars, convertibles and design masks, in an exercise, by the way, of unprecedented irresponsibility - look at the data - in the midst of the pandemic. We can do a policy of 'help as you can'; we can do it, let everyone look for life and seek individual solutions: how I move, where I go, how I go. Possibly those who have cars will come out of this situation better than others, which will be very difficult for them to get out of that situation. Again that would be the way out and those who have less and more need protection, we would leave them much more exposed to their fate. But we can also do things in another way and, therefore, we can build a sustainable mobility, that puts solidarity at the centre, that guarantees the citizenry that we have the capacity, in coordination with the rest of the administrations, to structure a collective exit and social protection for all and all those who move - I say all, especially, because it seems that we sometimes focus the planning of transport only with the trips to the jobs - for all those who go out and move to take care of their families, for those who go out to take care of the most vulnerable population, for those who go out daily - as I said before - to raise the economy of this country, so that this country will work. I have already mentioned the subject, those transport workers have been at the foot of the canyon every day, making these very essential services work. It is an exceptional moment, where not moving forward is exactly the same as going backwards. If we don't take a bold step, we'll go back twenty steps. That's the situation. We won't stay the way we were, because if we do, we'll go into a much worse situation than we were. That is why I believe that there must be a great deal of agreement, ladies and gentlemen, on an issue that is vital, that we play on the future, and that I believe that it should generate a great consensus among all those who really want a just and viable reconstruction for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs Sabanes Nadal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I now give the floor to the name of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u149	Thank you, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mrs Sabanes, and allow me to add a specific thanks to these thanks to the workers of the public transport services, to whom you alluded, who in fact have accompanied us during these weeks, have assured us that in the event of need they were there, always, even in these rare weeks that we have gone through of confinement. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, the truth is that I believe that your inquiry is extremely important and finds us very well located and very well aligned; aligned, on the other hand, with the recommendations of the World Health Organization or with the 200 health organizations that, representing more than 40 million health professionals, yesterday insisted, explained, that there is no possible recovery if it is not a green recovery; that working in energy, in healthy and sustainable cities, in models of different mobility, thinking about industrial recovery, bearing in mind what we have to do in the time to come, is essential to ensure the good health of people. And it is true that mobility is a fundamental pillar of our society, it is a strategic sector for the development of the country's economy, fundamental for citizens and the free movement of goods. It is true that it is considered a right, an instrument of social cohesion and a key factor in economic activity. It is true that we have quality, safe, efficient, available, affordable public transport services and that we want this to continue; it is one of the things we value most in the quality of life of our cities. It is true, too, that concern for the environment, air quality, its impact on our health, technological advances and digitisation are perceived as challenges - also as opportunities - to which public officials must respond. The impact of new technologies and digitisation promote efficiency and facilitate decarbonisation of transport, while enabling urban agendas to be recovered by contributing to the protection of the health and well-being of its inhabitants. It is also true that mobility, as we have discovered in recent weeks, has been one of the most important factors in the spread of coronavirus infection, which is why it has been restricted over the past two months to ensure the citizens' right to health to the fullest. Now, once the descalation begins, the gradual recovery of daily displacements, we have a great challenge ahead for the coming weeks and months. The response to the needs of physical distancing, security, the legitimate concern of the citizens, has raised some questions that we must answer adequately, without confusing ourselves. I would therefore like to insist that it is important for this Government not only that public transport should be damaged but also strengthened by this crisis. For this reason, the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda and the Ministry of Finance are working on setting up a fund for the recovery of land-based public service transport to compensate transport operators for the losses they have suffered as a result of the drop in demand during the state of alarm and, therefore, of their revenues. Impacts are being calculated and compensation mechanisms that could be linked with autonomous communities and public transport consortia are being designed. Perhaps this is the most important direct answer to your question, but it is not the only one. As you have rightly indicated, this is a key moment for discussing the mobility model we want. The first proposal seeks to strengthen demand management measures, such as teleworking, staggering and flexibilising the opening and exit times of workstations to modulate peak hours, something we have done and what I will still want to comment on later. It is also essential to strengthen the management, the supply of public transport, increasing frequencies, strengthening discretionary or long distance buses on main axes or shuttle services and strengthening intermodal connections. We know - and it should be remembered here - that, as the Higher Council for Scientific Research and many other scientific bodies say, properly hygienic public transport with passengers making proper use of masks is perfectly safe, and it is still the best option, the most efficient, the best quality, that allows shortening times in our cities and a better use of public space. Let me go back for a second to the telework, because we have unexpectedly discovered its advantages. It had been part of the public debate for a long time, but this crisis has contributed to aligning it on the public agenda. Some technology companies recall that in these weeks they have advanced five years the best scenarios for their implementation. The consolidation of this option in labour relations will improve mobility in cities, facilitate family reconciliation or even relocation to less mass environments outside urban centres, and this will present new challenges and interesting opportunities. Let me remind you of some facts that may be forgotten. There are Spaniards, those who come in their own vehicle to work, who spend more than seventeen hours a year on average in a jam; in the case of Madrid or Barcelona, this average can rise to forty-two hours per year, forty-two hours per year lost in a jam. Thanks to teleworking, it is estimated that companies can even save 30% on infrastructure costs, occupancy and space rentals. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Sabanes said very well, during the confinement we gave the planet a break. Now it's about recovering our lives without endangering air quality or our health. Greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced in recent months, up to 32% compared to the global average of 2019 or 17%. Nitrogen dioxide levels, one of the main sources of air pollution, fell by an average of 64 % in the main Spanish cities, with Barcelona at the head with a decrease of 83 %. These are obviously difficult, if not impossible, figures to maintain, but we must seek the correct reconciliation of our daily lives, the one to which we aspire, with our health and mobility, because if we do it right we could reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, freeing resources for other items. By reducing emissions and polluting particles, we improve air quality and people's health and thereby reduce health spending, enable urban centres to be reconfigured on a more human scale and recover public space for green infrastructure and recreation, making our cities more habitable places. The citizens of the world have rediscovered urban space. Cities such as Bogota, Berlin, Mexico City, New York or Lisbon have sought mechanisms to encourage bicycle transport through new bicycle lanes, subsidized free access to public and private shared bike systems, or the extension of bicycle lanes to peri-urban areas, as is the case in Paris. These rapid transformations can be consolidated, as - it seems - will occur in Milan, which already applies permanent urban changes with the expansion of the space of pedestrians and cyclists, the speed restriction in large arteries or the reinforcement of safety on bicycles. Also in our country, as you pointed out, there are cities that have proposed a reconfiguration of public space; all this, in parallel with an excellent supply of safe and quality public transport, remains our great bet, the fairest, the most inclusive, the most interesting also from the point of view of employment, public and private resources, incentives and employment in industry. These responses are in line with our commitment, with the objectives set out in the climate change and energy transition bill already referred to Parliament and which you will have the opportunity to discuss and discuss in the coming weeks. Mobility is part of the response to climate change and we must position ourselves in the new development model to take advantage of the opportunities that open up its transformation. Municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants and island territories will introduce mitigation measures in urban planning and management to reduce emissions from transport. This is one of the big stakes of the new Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, involved for weeks in the planning of the descalation process. The Ministry has set up a working group with the Autonomous Communities, the first result of which has been the Guide and recommendations for the descalation in urban and metropolitan transport, as well as the set of recommendations for the use of public transport. This aims to facilitate a reconfiguration of the mobility policies of the cities where the mass transport systems of state, autonomous and municipal competition converge. But the Ministry is also working on a new strategy for safe, sustainable and connected mobility, together with the other departments we are affected by it; a strategy aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement, as well as with the objectives set at European level; a strategy based on the interconnection between mobility policies and the rest of the Government's policies, actions and strategies in transport and communications, urban development, energy and climate, industry, road safety or innovation. Alongside this strategy, as you indicated, the Ministry of Transport leads the work of the law on sustainable mobility and financing of public transport. We'd like to have you ready by the end of the year. With this law we want to promote the most appropriate investments for sustainable mobility, fix the financing of public transport, resolve inconsistencies of the road model, deepen safety regulations, set principles and responsibility for collaboration between administrations, and advance the financial sustainability of transport infrastructures. It is a law that should be the spearhead that would allow our country to move from its 20th-century infrastructure and transport policies towards a safe and sustainable, economic and environmental mobility policy of the 21st century, with new opportunities for innovation, new industrial opportunities and new opportunities for generating economic activity. But mobility goes beyond the scope of cities; urban and metropolitan mobility is one of our great challenges, but it is not the only one, much remains to be done on many other fronts that represent, as Minister Maroto pointed out earlier, a very significant part of our productive system, a very significant part of our employment. From the Government we believe that it is essential to accompany the transformation of the industrial sectors associated with mobility. We want to be the bearers of an indispensable ambition to modernise key sectors in which the digital revolution, electrification, opens up new and extremely interesting opportunities for a country like Spain, which must not let go. I have no doubt that your interest in sustainable mobility and quality of life in our cities is perhaps one of the most comforting, stimulating and constructive lines of work that we have ahead of us, so I am confident that it will bring about broad consensus and strong synergies among all of us. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u151	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to say that the announcement about the work being done with the Autonomous Communities for a public transport compensation fund is a magnificent news, demanded and claimed, as you know, by ATUC, by Confebus, by all transport lines. We are talking not only about the urban sphere, but about a network coverage of relations, interrelationship and long-distance communication and between municipalities of enormous importance. Therefore, it is good news, in which I would also dare to say - since in itself it is the debate that has to be held with the autonomous communities, being led by the ministries concerned - not that there is a certain conditionality, but that there is a certain commitment. The various public transport operators have worked hard to adapt to sustainability, both in bus technologies and in modes and work systems. That is important, but it is also very important that we now have an integral vision, and that it means that there are commitments with space reserves for public transport that allow for their greater viability and security; that we have an integral vision combined with temporary infrastructures and not so temporary for the use of the bicycle; that we also look, although there are already subsidizing processes, at the taxi sector, which has also had exemplary behaviour in this crisis; that we look not only at the car as a product, but also at the services of mobility, which have also had a great adaptation towards electrification of car technologies, and that we look above all at an integral vision that has to do with the parking network, with the network of interchanges and the interconnection and relationship between different modes of transport, which is what will finally make these funds have an expression in the change that we are advocating. It is true that the bus network is very important, but you also have to look at and have improvements in the metro networks, nearby. They have from express routes to changes in headers. Finally, there are a number of commitments, and the sum of all of them and of the intervention with that fund has to mean a further step in sustainable mobility that is contemplated from different points of view in the bills that are either going to be in process right now or have been announced. It is a great news the commitment of the Socialist Party government to the United Nations We can bring the law on sustainable mobility and public transport financing as soon as possible. I think this is a time when we must be able to see the separate pieces, but also the puzzle that will be composed, taking into account the exit from the crisis and the risks and opportunities that it offers. The opportunities have been described with all the pieces we have on the table. Risks? The involution, the pressures, the risk of us looking short and not knowing how to see more in the medium and long term the great transformation and opportunity of employment. You mentioned this, but there is also a great opportunity for job creation, both in the area of technological renewal and in mobility services and in the deployment of public transport services themselves. I would like to end by reading, since you mentioned a manifesto you had earlier, I have not read it, but I finish with it, the World Health Professionals Manifesto, which have signed for an ecological exit to the COVID crisis: if we want the world to recover from this crisis in a healthy way, we cannot allow pollution to continue clouding the air we breathe and soiling the water we drink or climate change and deforestation to continue. I am convinced that with a short look and a long look it can be a reason for consensus in this House, even if we keep positions very distant. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. I felt particularly significant and stimulating the way in which you ended your intervention because, I agree with you, you are not only concerned with the connection with the health agenda, inclusion and model of present and future that we want for our country, the thread of the debate on mobility and quality of public transport, but also that, probably very unexpectedly, we find an opportunity to raise some of the most important debates that require collective effort, to add strength and energy on the part of all, also between the different levels of administration. In fact, this question of public transport in the urban and metropolitan environment is perhaps par excellence the great debate, the great space, the great game board where the Government of the nation, together with the autonomous and local administrations, has the opportunity to design the best signs to make cities habitable, cities in which each of the citizens feels proud to be able to enjoy the common space among all. It is true that, if we have achieved high levels, high levels of quality of public transport services in our cities and metropolitan areas, there is still room for improvement. But there are also opportunities for modernization and exploitation of those resources that we have, including labour, employment and industrial resources, which allow us to rethink, update and modernise this provision of public services by incorporating, as I said earlier, many of the very powerful signals that we have. You talk about Castrosua or Iveco; we are one of the major manufacturers of electric vehicles in all ranges in our country, along with the auxiliary component industries that make it easier for this to work. However, we are behind the EU average. Therefore, there is a great space for transformation, which must offer us, as you said and I pointed out, great opportunities; an industrial and employment accompaniment that requires the signs and proper concertation; a capacity to add value in which we are all willing to find the best compromise, the best compatible response - as I indicated when referring to the World Health Organization, the professionals - with air quality and climate challenges. They are sectors that are one of the main axes, one of the most important strategic pieces in the process of reconstruction that we have before us, with a level of complicity, from the point of view of values, on the part of society; of complicity, from the point of view of industrial commitment and employment; of complicity in good management, in the best management of public policies; and of complicity also in the field of innovation and industrial development. They are sectors that have been able to identify the challenges they face, provide ideas on how to strengthen their sustainability and propose employment, innovation and development opportunities. They require that comprehensive vision that we must provide. They are spaces in which, as I said before, I trust that we will find ourselves. And with this proposal, led by Minister Ábalos, a sustainable, safe and healthy mobility strategy, and a law that, together with the drive to modernise our mobility system, ensures a stable system of financing public transport, we will have the opportunity to continue to work for the good of the Spaniards during the rest of the legislature. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, TO THE SECOND Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030 TO EXPLAIN HOW POLITICAL AGREEMENTS WITH RADIC NATIONALITY ARE TO BE INFLUTED IN GOVERNMENT ACTION. [[File number 172/000033]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u155	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the second vice president of the government and minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 to explain how political agreements with radical nationalism will influence government action. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos has the floor for her defence. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, second, pacta são servanda. Indeed, the pact obliges, and the first pact that binds us all, and you in particular for your responsibility, is the constitutional pact, the exemplary democratic agreement whose Article 2 states that sovereignty lies in the whole of the Spanish people. You don't like that pact; now you walk with a Constitution in your hand, reciting articles as a preacher, but no, you're not a convert, you're an impostor. Let's get to the facts. First, the most recent. Last Thursday you stood as a double spokesman for the greatest aggressors of Spanish democracy. On the one hand, it came out steep and challenging in defense of the agreement signed in this House with Bildu to liquidate the labor reform. On the other hand, he again attacked justice and defended the pardon for two sedition convicts. That is to say, on the same day you promoted a double pardon: the judicial pardon of coup nationalism and the definitive moral and political pardon of Philoetatra nationalism. In fact, Mr Second Vice-President, more than the pardon to the Jordis or the Otegis what you should ask is your own pardon. Let's go to the hemerotheque. It's his cross, I know, and that I'm not even going to quote at the moment his ties with the Venezuelan dictatorship. Let us analyse your relationship with Spanish democracy, so that we can see - you too - to what extent the moral superiority you display in front of my party and others is purely laughable; yours, in fact, is a moral inferiority. This morning you were crying out: we played democracy. Yes, but for you; you are the one who has played and continues to play against democracy. First, terrorism. You have a long intimidating to democratic relationship with the underworld of ETA: conferences, interviews, tweets and talks. Terrorism has never caused you the disgust that causes a Democrat, left-wing or right-wing. [[Applauds]] Conversely, you have always expressed an unusual condescension with violence. Some examples. Year 2008, his doctoral thesis. There he wrote that the kale borroka, this we see again in Navarre - attacks on party seats, burned cashiers, riots - is a gymnastics, a training. Why exactly, Mr. Vice President? We don't know. Year 2011, on Twitter, here you stand as a defense attorney for terrorist Otegi: What a scandal to be sentenced to ten years in jail! - I was saying. A few years later he celebrated his liberation euphoric: good news for the Democrats because no one should go to jail for his ideas. For your ideas, Mr. Vice President? If the ideas were condemned in Spain, you'd be in jail. I have explained this several times to Congressman Rufián, who is in the process of understanding it. But let's keep going. Year 2013 on television, its preferred medium: any Democrat should ask himself - he said - whether it would be unreasonable that ETA prisoners should not go out of jails. The most shocking of the phrase is the use of the word democrats. To be a Democrat, you have to want the freedom of the terrorist? So, those of us who simply ask for justice, a punishment proportional to crime, what are we? Ah! Fascists; that. With these advanced ideas you gained a well-deserved prestige in the civilized atmosphere of the herriko taverns. There he was invited and there he appeared. This is what you said one afternoon in Navarre: however much democratic procedure there is in Spain there are certain rights that cannot be exercised within the framework of legality. The first to realize this was the Basque left and ETA. He elaborated it a little further in the Ritz: if you asked me in the European Parliament for ETA - he said - I would say that it has caused a lot of pain, but that he has a political explanation. In that dirty adversarial is the key to your position. You consider that political murder is a right derived from the right of self-determination, and that is why in that same Navarra tavern you offered yourself for a special mission: I would like you to let me be your ambassador. That is exactly what you have become, Mr. Iglesias, as Ambassador of ETA-Batasuna in the Government of Spain, as the Trojan donkey of democracy; as the Trojan donkey of democracy and also, after the last pact with Bildu, as the main threat to the most vulnerable. [[applause]] You'll say, but Bildu is a legal party. Yes, but it is not a democratic party; it is a party that justifies the murder, a racist party that pays tribute to terrorists who have killed on behalf of a totalitarian project, a party that does not even condemn the attack on Mrs Mendia's home on the same day that the Socialist Party shows up with them. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, meditate, please meditate. And, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, prepare yourself: Durango, Galdácano, Renteria, the next stop is the Basque government, and from there to Catalonia to repeat the operation, now with Esquerra. Mr Second Vice-President, you say: I defend the right of self-determination, and I answer two things: there is no right to demand a right that does not exist, and even less so to impose it, and secondly, it is not true that you defend an invalid right, what you advocate is the nullification of existing rights. The alleged right of self-determination is an aggression, an aggression to the equality of the Spaniards with which you are filled. Today you accused my party of encouraging insubordination. You're talking about insubordination! The great valiant of the October 2017 coupts! It's just laughable! Don't you realize it's laughable? His qualification of that coup to democracy as a legitimate political manifestation, his criticisms against the exemplary performance of the Police and the Civil Guard in front of the coup - by the way, there was Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, now purged in an operation proper to a dictatorship -, his visits, two, to the already condemned Junqueras in prison to try to agree the budgets and to push the negotiating table, his pressures to the Supreme Court anticipating, judge and party, that it was not rebellion, his criticisms to the Spanish justice in front of the European courts, this document of 11 May in which with Bildu, Esquerra and others demand release, with the excuse of the COVID and the state of alarm, instrument to get terrorists and couptists out of jail and put you in the CNI. Finally, yesterday, Podemos' vote in favour of the appearance of the fugitive Puigdemont in the Committee on Reconstruction, as a European expert. [[Applauds]] Anyway. The social shield with Puigdemont! [[Applauds]] There is really no greater offence against the 28 000 victims of the pandemic and the Spanish as a whole. Mr Vice-President, second, you have a plan, it is true, it is a plan as I have said against democracy, against democracy in the right direction, because it violates the rights of the Spaniards, and against democracy as well as you understand it. You say: more state. False! You sponsor those who seek the destruction of the State. That's his paradox. He wants to raise an authoritarian leftist regime while eroding the basis of that same authority, and this is his lie, without a state there can be no social state, no coat of arms, no pensions or nothing. In fact, Mr Second Vice-President, all your doctrinal corpus, if we can call it that, is contrary to democratic reason and reason alone. The hemerotheque again. You have said, not as a college teenager, rebellious and such, almost forty, things like the following: I apologize for not breaking my face to all the faces I argue with on TV. Maybe when we finish this talk instead of theater faggots, we'll go hunting Segovia to apply proletarian justice. I like you to mobilize the army to tell the markets, be careful that I have guns now! Another: The cunning Mao Tse Tung said that power is born from the mouth of the rifles and so it remains. The cunning is formidable as it is the greatest killer in history. What about that obsession with the guns from where he came from? Here again we are building that social counterpower that makes a young man if he does a painting, if he throws a Molotov cocktail or even if he pulls a gun, protects a part of society. The next one is dedicated to the Minister of Equality: one can face the elections in a masculine way, for fuck's sake. We say to the power: here are I and my balls in front of you. Very nice! The last is definitive: democracy is incompatible, he says, with the monopoly of force on the part of the State. He is saying that violence against the State or between individuals is legitimate. You, Mr Second Vice-President, legitimise violence, even sometimes practice it, such as the slavery to Rosa Díez in the Complutense, the democratic syrup for PP leaders, his support for Rodrigo Lanza, the one who killed a man for carrying straps with the flag of Spain, and already last week his threats to President Ayuso and Mr Abascal. Like Mr Torra, you now intend to keep one foot in the institutions and the other foot in the squadrons. You'll think I guess it's easier to make revolution from power, certainly more comfortable than it is. I would like to say that there is no leader in any Government of Europe who can cite such an arsenal of expressions and facts against the values of a democratic, peaceful, modern and civilized Europe. Spanish varoufakis? I wish. You are a European anomaly, your positions are of radical marginality, and not just as a communist. As a communist you should certainly ask for forgiveness for the millions of dead who twin your ideas with Nazism. Its positions are marginal mainly because of its link with violence: to liquidate the Transition, which is a monument to reconciliation and the most important political work in our history; to end the Constitution, which is Spanish civil peace, the framework that allows us to live together with the different. None of this can be done against the other half of Spain by democratic and peaceful means. You could only impose your project by force or under very particular circumstances, and you know it. He recognized it in 2013: when there are elections - he said - in normal conditions, the communists never win. Communists have succeeded in times of exceptionality, of crisis. That's it. You are taking advantage of the pandemic, the Spanish tragedy to advance your project, which is ultimately nothing but the failure of constitutional Spain, the most just and fertile in history. That is why I should not address both you today and the Socialists, it is true, perhaps not the third row - today the first rows -. What can I say to Mrs. Lastra, the unfortunate signatory of the pact with Bildu? Or Mr. Simancas, who accepted the humiliation of having to blame the PP for that pact? But yes to the bench and above all to the voters. There is, it is true, an atavistic, quartetary, authoritarian Spain, a brave and bloody Spain, a Spain that prides itself on racism, conflict, hatred and violence. That Spain has also had its projection in Latin America, in the figure of the caudillo, militarist, hangman, even a ridiculous point, if the consequences were not dramatic: a Chávez, a Maduro, you understand me. The second vice president links perfectly with this tradition, it is the contemporary version of the Ibero-American leader who ignites so many prejudices in the Anglo-Saxon world, and who has caused so many ravages cyclically to the freedom and well-being of the Spaniards of both hemispheres. In 1978 the third Spain buried its two worst versions, and a new, tolerant, open and bright Spain stood up. That Spain is the one that socialists should care for and promote, together with that vast majority of Spaniards who defend freedom, equality and, yes, fraternity. And that is why in a way of encouragement, I will quote a few words from the competent authority in order to finish - and to see if they are listening to me. Today the president of the government said in 2015: Pablo Iglesias has made the lie his way of doing politics, he lies more than he speaks. I am sure, Mr Vice-President, that you will not mind the appointment, you will think that, coming from Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejon, it is a compliment. Also in this you are number two. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. A long time ago you wrote me a tweet in which you said to me: from marquise to marquise, you passed. He called me Troy's donkey today. Much more worthy is to be Trojan donkey than to be marquises, Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. Look, today you missed an opportunity, because we could have had an interesting ideological debate here, because it is true that you and I represent very different things. There was no need to resort to lying. I think that when you resort to lying, it basically reveals its complexes and its insecurities, and believe me that we could have a debate without the need to insult and without the need to lie. I welcome and am proud that you have read my doctoral thesis. Whoever was talking about revolutionary gymnastics was a minister, a very atypical minister - I grant you that - García Oliver. Keep reading, that we can certainly continue to debate. It draws my attention to the fact that you have so much to do with the Spanish Constitution while insulting the Communists, because perhaps you forget that the party you represent here was founded by ministers of the Franco dictatorship, many of whom and much of that party opposed the Constitution of 78. Although it hurts you, Mrs Marquesa, the Communist Party of Spain is part of the DNA of our democracy and our Constitution and you just a little bit. That you come here today to talk about ETA in the midst of a pandemic, Mrs Marquesa, I think it reveals how far you are from the real problems of people and what should be the role of an opposition - right-wing, but sensible - in working with the government to deal with a health emergency of very broad economic and social implications. And although we are also accustomed to paradoxes, it is still striking that you come here to talk about radical nationalism while ruling with VOX and at the same time encouraging people to protest against the state of alarm, using the flag of everyone, to then accuse others of radical nationalism. Look, using the constitutional flag to attack a different thinker is using it to divide and stir up hatred, Marquise. While society is making a huge effort to overcome such a difficult time, while the health care workers are leaving their skin on the front line fighting the virus, you have basically dedicated yourselves to putting on a frenzy and encouraging people, along with the far right, to mock the state of alarm putting at risk what people in this country have achieved by making a huge effort and health professionals. You insult the flag when you identify it with you and your ultra partners. I don't know if you remember a meeting of the CDU in Germany where Angela Merkel - which is supposed to be your reference in this country - is handed over to you a flag from Germany and immediately returns it saying that no German party can afford to appropriate the flag that belongs to everyone. And in fact, from what you have done here, I believe that a very interesting debate, Mrs Marquesa, derives, and that is the meaning of being Spanish and defending Spain. I said in recent weeks that the main priority of this government had to be to defeat the virus. We have not yet defeated it, but it is true that the efforts of citizens and health professionals have led us to be closer and perhaps it is up to us at this time to make some political reflections, not only about the type of opposition you are making, but about some lessons that are leaving this pandemic on the table about what it means to defend Spain. What is it for you to defend Spain, ladies and gentlemen? Defending Spain is not to wave a flag too big to attack others; defending Spain is to defend public health. It has been very revealing to see in the streets in front of the ultras some people in sanitary uniforms. Sanitary uniforms - although it hurts you because you did a lot of damage to public health in this country - are today the best expression of patriotism above any flag. [[Applauds]] I will not ask you to apologize for the damage you have done to public health, but my duty as a government is to reach out to you to rebuild it. Because rebuilding public health is, ladies and gentlemen, defending Spain. Defending Spain is defending public education. Public education is that set of devices that serve to ensure that if a child does not have cultural or economic resources in his or her home, he or she can have the same opportunities as the child who does. To defend public education is to improve the scholarship system, as this humble Government has recently done, to prevent some students from having to stop being so because they cannot pay the fees. I am not going to ask you, Mrs Marquesa, to apologize for the damage you have done to public education in this country, but it is my duty to reach out to you to help rebuild public education because that is to defend Spain. To defend Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is to defend the constitutional right to housing. The Constitution is not a brick to throw at the adversary. The Constitution has articles and who constantly mocks the social articles of the Spanish Constitution, mocks Spain and the Constitution itself. We'll reach out to them, Your Honor, even if they insult us, even if they assault us. And we will reach out to all institutions to comply with the Constitution and guarantee the right to housing, because guaranteeing the right to housing, ladies and gentlemen, is defending Spain. Defending Spain is defending workers and women workers, and I know that you are greatly annoyed by this government's policy of defending workers and also businesses. I understand perfectly well that you defend the labor reform of you, that of Mrs. Fatima Báñez, who, do you know where it ended up through a revolving door? In the CEOE, what shame, ladies and gentlemen, what shame! [[Rumors.-Protests]] We can be proud to have a Minister of Labour who not only represents workers but does not impose a labour reform without social dialogue, which negotiates with employers the rise of the minimum wage, which negotiates the prolongation of ERTs. I understand that you defend yours and the rotating doors that continue to make you end up on boards of directors, because that is defending the corruption that you represent. [[Rumors]] Even though you are corrupt, even though you are a party founded by ministers of a dictatorship, even though you are moving away from the Constitution, despite your lies, despite the filth that represents going hand in hand with the far right, we will continue to hold your hand, because that is defending Spain. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u158	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u159	To defend Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is not to wave any flag, it is to defend fiscal justice, says the Constitution. It is to defend that there is a tax reform in this country so that we can get closer to those seven points that separate us from the countries in our environment. Do you know what it's like to attack the homeland and attack Spain? Make tax amnesties, like the ones you did, and defend the defrauders, like what you did. I am not naive and I know that you are and represent the interests of patriots who do not like to pay taxes here. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Yeah, a lot of flag, but then, the Swiss accounts...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u160	Quiet, please. [[Mr. Mateu Istúriz speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Mateu, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u161	Although you are a party with countless prisoners for criminals, we will continue to hold hands with you, Your Honor. To defend Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is to defend a system of attention to decent dependence and to recognize that the cuts of more than 5 billion you have caused have made dependence in our country in an alarming situation. We are not going to ask you to ask forgiveness, which you should, we are going to ask you to arm your shoulder to rebuild a public care system, because that is defending Spain. Defending Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is not just waving a flag; by the way, be careful because many flags of the ornithological society, that flag with the Iberian chicken, which reveals a subconscious that continues to exist within you, are recently seen among your political leaders. Be careful about that, too. To defend Spain is to defend industrial sovereignty, it must never happen again in this country that we do not have an industry prepared to manufacture respirators or personal protective equipment. Stop defending relocations that have placed the sovereignty of the homeland in a situation of vulnerability. We're not going to ask them to apologize, but we're going to reach out to them for the general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning you have highlighted an old civilian guard who disobeyed an order, so it seems that you are suggesting that the Security Forces and Bodies should attend to what you tell them,... [[rumors]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u163	... at your command. I ask you to be prudent, that you are treading a hugely dangerous terrain not only for your future, but for the future of our country. I tell you one more thing - and this concludes - neither you nor your ultra partners are going to give us or half a lesson in what it means to be patriotic, what it means to be Spanish and what it means to defend Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u164	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I give the floor to Mrs Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Thank you, Madam President. What was that, Mr Vice-President, of the Spanish anthem cutre pachanga fachosa? Defend Spain. Come on, let's defend Spain! The Communists. They were indeed useful when, unlike you, they ceased to be communists. Then let's talk about his veneration and attachment to the communists. The other day, in tribute to Julio Anguita, who rests in peace, you wrote: We are going our best political reference. I'll see you all the time! But it is that a few years before you in an act complained that many people want to raise Anguita, who is like the corpse of the Cid on horseback, and wished her to go literally - and forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, the expression - to hell. This is their attachment to communist referents and communism: their radical hypocrisy. Let us now talk about the parents of the Constitution. Yes, we have several. You have quoted Fraga, the dictatorship. Are you going to talk to me about dictatorships, the disciple of the Ayatollahs of Iran, the progeny of Hugo Chávez and Nicolás Maduro? [[Applauds]] It's just that they don't have to tell me, I and many of this House don't have to tell us the results of those policies in Venezuela. I have seen it with my own eyes: hunger, repression, rape, misery. Only from an infinite condescension with violence and only from visceral racism - I will tell you - can you maintain your attitude towards the Venezuelan dictatorship. And one more thing. Only when your political father Nicolás Maduro is able to make a constitution like Manuel Fraga can you come here and say something about it. [[Applauds]] Now, this thing of defending Spain, public health, education, all that, it's gotten very belly you. Don't you? Let's talk about it: social shield, he says; protection of the weak, he says. Let's see, I'm going to tell you one thing, I'm going to tell you gently so that it doesn't hurt very much: the Spanish risk premium bears its name; Pablo Iglesias Turrión is the Spanish risk premium: scarecrow of investors, irrefutable argument of European fears, their positions make it impossible to rescue under reasonable, manageable conditions that do not mean a brutal break to the weakest in this country. Their positions destroy employment, their phrases threaten pensions, the salaries of civil servants, drive the recovery away. To you that, of course, may matter little - communism in the end is the sharing of misery and all these things - but it is that to the whole of the Spaniards yes. When the vulnerable and the weak listen to you, they tremble; but they do not tremble at veneration, as you would like them to tremble at veneration, they tremble at panic. Thirdly, I made an appeal to the Socialists, but after listening to him I believe that an appeal must be made to all the Spaniards. I ask the Spaniards to remember the famous verses of Gil de Biedma: 'Of all the stories of History / the saddest of all is that of Spain, / because it ends badly'. But I especially ask you to remember the second part, where hope assumes, says: 'And I have often thought of another story / different and less sad; in another Spain, / where demons no longer count. / I ask Spain to expel those demons. / May man be the owner of his story.' Indeed, let us cast out those demons, let us be masters of our history. They flee, Spaniards, from submission, also from the trap of assistanceism that you distribute, from that great governmental lie that you embody that is summed up in more state and that others pay it, that you pay it Europe. Spain is going to recover, yes; we will have to ask for help, of course, but only to get up, not to keep standing even, and of course not to keep on our knees, as the second vice president claims. We can, you guys, you're actually we can't. A form of political and social abdication. Spain is not condemned to repeat its historical mistakes, it is not condemned to marginality and confrontation. Constitutional Spain is reconciliation, something you do not understand. And it's also responsibility, something you don't understand either. And effort and ability to be a model. Like the Transition, yes, and that's why we don't need charismatic caudillos who treat us like minors. I ratify that you really are pessimism and dandruff. And one more thing to finish. Let's talk about this aristocracy. You've made reference to my title of Marquise, the social class, the aristocracy, over and over again, haven't you? As you well know, children are not responsible for our parents, not even parents are entirely responsible for what our children are going to be. That's why I'm going to tell you for the first and last time: you 1. [[is the son of a terrorist]] That aristocracy belongs to you, to that of political crime. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs Alvarez de Toledo. Mr Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think calling my father a terrorist is going to provoke me and get him to lose his composure, you're wrong. You have just committed a crime here, in this rostrum, and only someone with nobiliary titles is able to believe with impunity that you can call someone a terrorist and come out for free. Therefore, I will invite my lord father to do the right thing. Your Honor, Manuel Fraga made a path. Manuel Fraga was a Frenchman and responsible for some death sentences that were signed in this country. But Manuel Fraga made a path, managed to found a party with ministers of the dictatorship that became one of the most important parties of Spanish democracy. I am not suspicious of any admiration for this figure, but I understand the political importance of the ministers of a dictatorship becoming democrats. That is also part of our system's DNA, and we have to say it openly. I have a feeling that you are making the opposite path. I hear you, Mrs Marquesa, I look at Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros and I see a Christian Democrat centrist next to your speech. But this is not something that has to do only with your personality and your personal style. This is a political party decision. You have decided to place yourself in the far right. The one responsible is you, Mr. Married, because the different pieces you move to get out here are your political responsibility. And I know Pablo that you don't think so. [[Laughter]] You're not an ultrarightist. I understand that someone has convinced you that it is the most beneficial strategy for your party to occupy extreme right-wing positions. I would ask you to consult it with the pillow, to reflect on it, because doing the opposite way to what Manuel Fraga did, to return to the positions that gave you origin - I insist - can not only be very harmful to your future, it can also be harmful to our country. We are going to continue to rule, and we are going to do some good and we are going to do some bad things, but I am extremely concerned that the main opposition party, that the right wing in this country, has decided to stand in provocation, lies, disrespect and ultra-right positions. They will face us, not only are we not afraid of them, despite their threats, but the citizenship of our country will place them in the place of their own history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] 1 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u167	Thank you, Mr Vice-President of the Government. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, I would like to ask you if you would like to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the expression your father is a terrorist, referring to the second Vice-President of the Government. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: No. His father, as Mr. Iglesias well acknowledges in this article, was a member of the FRAP. [[shows a photocopy]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u168	We will remove it from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you so much. [[Protests]] Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: How? No, no, Why? [[Mr. Vice President, Gil Lázaro: Why? Is it censorship?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u169	We continue with the corresponding point... [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Protests Continue]] We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2020... Ladies and gentlemen, please! [[Strong Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I pray silently. [[Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos asks for the floor.-Protests continue]] We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 of 12 May of social measures in defense of employment. [[Protests Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Mr. Vice President, Gil Lázaro: Yes, you can disqualify...]] Mr Vice-President, please, from the Bureau I ask you to exercise your institutional role. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u170	To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Labour and Social Economy has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u171	Good afternoon. I would not like to begin this appearance today without showing publicly on behalf of the Government and on my own behalf the pain and solidarity with the victims of COVID-19. I remind you that this country is in mourning and our memory pays tribute to all those who have lost their lives during this deadly pandemic. My most sincere affection and affection to relatives, friends and relatives who today weep for a loved one. I compare before you to expose the content and scope of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 of 12 May of social measures in defense of employment, a norm that today is essential to continue to evolve towards the normalization of our economy, of our businesses, of our jobs and also of our lives. The rule that I submit to you today is the result of consensus with the social partners. I am referring to the legal translation of the social agreement for the defence of employment, vital for our country. In order to reach this agreement, the social partners have managed to bridge their legitimate differences and to agree on the necessary instruments for the protection of employment. That example, that of uniting efforts to solve the problems of citizenship, is the one that drives this royal decree and the one that I am calling for today's parliamentary ratification. I am talking to you about the social agreement, but also about the agreement reached by the social agents that we made our own in the Royal Decree-Law 8/2020. Thanks to this ongoing dialogue between government, trade unions and employers, we have managed for the first time in our country to face a major crisis without resorting to massive job destruction. You know that the precariousness of our labour market, its extreme temporality, makes us different from the rest of Europe. On this occasion, Spain's response has been less anomalous, less different, and this is one of the great results to which social dialogue has led. The most relevant measure to address the pandemic has been the generalisation of temporary employment regulation files, which have become the key tool for transforming redundancies into contract suspensions or shorter working hours. ERTE has allowed 3,300,000 people to maintain their working relationship with the company, while at the same time helping hundreds of thousands of businesses to remain alive awaiting economic recovery. With the help of social dialogue, we have redesigned a work tool that originates from Law 35/2010; and we have redesigned it to speed it up, make it more flexible and more suitable, responding to the needs of millions of workers and more than half a million companies, doing so in record time. ERTEs have been the mechanisms to generate and promote solidarity during the toughest moments of the health crisis. Around them, both companies and workers and the State itself have acted in a committed manner to ensure the maintenance of business projects and jobs. That has always been our goal. In this crisis, ERTEs are playing a triple role. First, they protect millions of people with public benefits who replace their wages, thus maintaining the income needed to live. Secondly, these revenues are essential to maintain domestic demand and thus to sustain the productive activity of the sectors that are not paralysed, thus preventing a further downturn in the economy. Thirdly, but with as much or more importance than the previous two, the scheme for the protection of ERTs for workers and companies makes it possible to minimize the effects of the crisis on the productive fabric of our country, preventing the deterioration that is now being suffered from becoming permanent and irreversible damage to companies and the productive sectors. It is a question of keeping our productive capacity as free as possible, avoiding by all means business closures, in such a way that, as the activity recovers, companies return as quickly as possible and with the least possible damage to normalcy. The Government's strategic commitment to this formula, in direct collaboration with employers and trade unions, allowed for the widespread use of this formula by companies in all sectors and in all sizes. More than 550 000 companies with more than 3 300 000 people supported by an ERTE is something unknown in our history. In no month of the financial crisis between 2008 and 2013 did the number of people hosted in an ERTE exceed 60 000. Public investment around ERTs has been intense and has had multiple manifestations, such as widespread access to unemployment benefits. We have created extraordinary subsidies to address the vulnerability of various groups and have articulated exemptions to corporate contributions. In turn, because we care and care about the destination of these public funds, specific guarantee mechanisms have been established, such as safeguarding against dismissal or commitment to activity. It could not be otherwise, because there have been many public resources invested and also very large efforts of the citizenry. ERTE must evolve until it ceases to be the core of our action. It is the main objective of this royal decree-law which, as you know, contains a systematic set of measures for the force majeure of ERTE to maintain the necessary time, even beyond the state of alarm, but at the same time establishing mechanisms for a subsequent transition. The Royal Decree-Law 18/2020, which is now before this House, is a labour law that marks a marked return from economic activity. The cause of force majeure, which is strictly linked to the pandemic, is destined to disappear and must do so progressively as business and work recovers. But even if the containment measures are no longer the direct cause of the ERTEs, the organisation must be prepared to accompany the companies in the difficult moments that may come after the end of the state of alarm. That amparo, that hand extended, is the main objective of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2020, but it is not the only one. This royal decree also has a structural function, it is a transitional adjustment rule which also seeks to reflect the way in which the stable rules of our immediate future will be shaped, maintaining in them the solidarity, social protection and public involvement that have inspired the rules adopted during the pandemic. The ERTE protects employment, employees, but also businesses and the productive fabric as a whole because it allows them to keep their capacity intact while waiting to resume their activity, it is a parenthesis. The Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 aims to establish the axes to move not only towards normality, but towards a better normality. These words, normally better, are those used a few days ago by the Director-General of the ILO, Guy Ryder, to refer to the type of labour relations that should arise after the health crisis of COVID-19. That is the ILO request: to lay the groundwork for a new model of fairer, more dignified and more equitable labour relations. In shaping this new framework, which is more socially committed, more supportive and more dialogueal, the social partners are destined to take a central place. Social dialogue in ordinary circumstances has an indisputable value because it reinforces the legitimacy of the rules and because it ensures their application, but let me tell you that at such relevant times as the current ones also serves to ensure that the bases of the recovery will be firmer. The fact that the Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 was the result of the social dialogue reaffirms its legitimacy and effectiveness in moving towards this new collective scenario for our companies and workers. [[The Lord]] As you well know, this is not a crisis specific to our country, but a crisis of a European and global character. Almost all EU countries experienced a sharp fall in GDP in the first quarter of 2020. This fall in activity has shifted to an employment crisis, to which most countries have responded with measures to support workers and businesses. Various formulas have been used, but public resources have been made available to reduce the hours of work lost due to the drop in activity. It is in this European protection scheme that the ERTs we have applied are integrated, which share many of the characteristics of the different models of the countries in our environment. In aggregate terms, the data reflect the enormous gravity of the economic and labour situation facing the European Union. At the end of April there were more than 42 million applications for shorter working hours or suspension of employment in the Union of Twenty-Seven, which amounts to more than 50 million people if we include the United Kingdom and Switzerland. This means - see - that 25% of the European workforce has their employment affected by COVID-19 and that one in four people may need public resources to maintain their income in whole or in part. ERTE is the formula by which Spain joins the European model of employment protection, because ERTE has neutralized the impact of this Spanish anomaly to which I referred, which is the precariousness and extreme temporality of our labour market. Let me now define with four notes the content and general scope of this royal decree. It is a rule that continues to put the ERTEs at the centre, as it cannot be otherwise, since we are still in an alarm state. The decree provides for the evolution of ERTEs in a flexible context, with multiple possible scenarios. We have taken into account the health crisis, but also the various situations facing companies and workers. Another feature of this decree is the ability to adapt to the circumstances that may arise in the coming months. The social dialogue that supports this decree has made it possible to create a tripartite monitoring body, which is meeting today and which will be essential not only for ERTEs to evolve and fulfil their role properly, but also for social actors to participate actively in the configuration of this new and better normality. In addition, this is a rule that sets out concrete mechanisms to promote the reactivation and maintenance of employment, while discouraging modes of action that are not supportive and inconsistent with the effort that this health crisis has required of the entire population. In short, it is a rule, first and foremost, evolutionary, also adaptable, encouraging and ensuring good use of public funds. Around these four characteristics I will develop the rest of my speech. It's a rule that evolves. Force majeure ERTE was relatively homogeneous during the time of confinement. The introduction of the phases to progressively abandon the confinement, the dynamics of the health crisis and the partial recovery of activity advised to deal with these ERTs in a differentiated way. What the Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 has done is to allow the extension of ERTE by force majeure when the activity cannot be resumed, but also to allow the incorporation of part of the staff through ERTE by force majeure partial without mediating the request for a new ERTE. Simplification, as you will understand, is a priority in this extension system because it admits the possibility of variations in the workload concerned without the need to initiate new procedures. During the extended ERTE period by force majeure we have put to zero the unemployment benefit accountant and we have established for the fixed discontinuous a special protection of longer duration, which is maintained until 31 December this year and which is motivated by the seasonality that characterizes these jobs. Collective solidarity continues to govern the will of these measures. Another of the relevant features of Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 is that it devotes special attention to ERTs motivated by economic, technical, organizational and production causes. Force majeure ERTS should progressively return to their corresponding residual space as they lose their direct connection to the pandemic. On the other hand, it is foreseeable that the indirect effects of the health crisis will continue over time and that some companies will experience difficulties due to lower production or lower sales. This royal decree-law facilitates the transit of ERTE by force majeure to ERTE by ETOP causes, a gateway that establishes mechanisms for continuity between the two and enables the transit to be as simple as possible. It's an adaptable standard. Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 sets a fixed date for the implementation of the measures contained in it, as you know, on 30 June. It is a reasoned time frame that offers a reference horizon and allows for a first degree of planning by companies. The adaptability of this rule is reflected in the fact that the Council of Ministers, in the light of the circumstances, can extend this date as well as exemptions to businesses or the public unemployment benefit. The rule we bring today provides for the possibility of exemptions being extended to ERTs for ETOP causes, which had so far been left out of these benefits. Exemptions will thus be able to accommodate new situations that require encouragement and, therefore, also support from the State. The Tripartite Labour Monitoring Commission is another example of this adaptability; it is a fundamental body which, as I have said, will follow the measures adopted and which must be consulted in advance of possible extensions that could be established by agreement of the Council of Ministers. It is a key piece and an instrument of participation that keeps alive our commitment to social dialogue as an engine and expression of the needs of companies and workers. Thirdly, a rule that encourages return to work. ERTEs are not only an employment safeguard mechanism, but also an incentive for reactivation. These incentives take into account those enterprises that need it most, small enterprises, as well as those that have been most eager to reintegrate workers. That is why Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 establishes a system of exemption from the corporate contribution of companies to ERTE by force majeure of variable amount. The factors taken into account in determining the specific amount of the exemption are: the time of reinstatement, the size of the undertaking and the fact that it is a suspension of the contract or a reinstatement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the innovative system of exemptions provided for in the Royal Decree-Law. We are not content to support workers' contributions with the suspended contract, but we have also extended the exemptions to workers who reintegrate into the activity; let us say that we open two mechanisms of exemption; a novel system that stimulates the recovery of the activity by extending the protection provided by the social security system. Fourthly, a rule guaranteeing the proper use of public funds. This is important; in this crisis I believe it is fundamental. The rule I present to you is also an example of the maturity of the social partners. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, are aware of the extraordinary effort that the Government is making to support companies and workers during the crisis, and it cannot be given in exchange for anything. Those who welcome ERTE must make an explicit commitment to society through five key measures: the first, the specific employment safeguard clause. All measures to promote employment in our country prior to the health crisis with public funds have established this. It's the usual, but it's also a requirement. The employment safeguard clause laid down in Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 is the undertaking of activity, maintenance for six months by the company since the date of resumption of the activity, encrypted in the reinstatement to the actual work of the persons affected by the file. If not complied with, the company must reinstate the amount of the exemptions granted. This safeguard clause ensures that certain undertakings at risk of competition will not be able to comply with this undertaking. Two, those companies domiciled in tax havens will not be eligible for ERTE by force majeure and their corresponding exemptions. Three, likewise, companies with more than 50 workers will not be able to distribute dividends in the tax year for ERTE. It is another manifestation of the principle of collective solidarity that must inspire the content of all the rules related to the pandemic, and that must be consistent with the needs and efforts made by businesses and individuals. Four, it is prohibited until 30 June to dismiss by force majeure and for technical, economic, organizational and production reasons. We are doing everything possible to maintain employment, which is why it is not acceptable, at this critical moment in the country, to rely on causes designed to disappear in order to frustrate workers' expectations of maintaining their jobs. Fifthly, it also suspends the calculation of temporary contracts until 30 June in order to ensure that temporary employment is not destroyed as a result of the crisis and that, like fixed employment, it can continue to be covered by the ERTE. They are all measures which acquire even greater value, if any, because they are the result of an agreement which, I would insist, confirms the maturity of the social partners. No one doubts that the protection that the ERTEs seek is not and should be unconditional. It is imperative that you now make reference - already in conclusion - to the attendance of extraordinary and urgent necessity required by article 86.1 of the Spanish Constitution for the approval by the Government of a royal decree-law. In this Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 the requirements of extraordinary and urgent necessity are met because the norm addresses the serious and exceptional situation that persists as a result of the health crisis of COVID-19. The Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 addresses the concrete situation that occurs at a time of transit to normality in which immediate action mechanisms are required. I conclude my speech, ladies and gentlemen. What I am asking you today to validate is the result of the collective effort of the Government, but above all of the collective effort of the social partners, to whom I thank today - once again - for their contribution to the exit from this crisis. It is an innovative legal rule that encourages the return to business without neglecting the problems that many companies still carry for their normal operation. An agreed standard which is not, moreover, a point and an end, but takes care that difficulties may persist and that further measures will be necessary to take account of the particularities of the different sectors of activity. A rule, in short, that once again trusts in social dialogue to extend its effects beyond June and continue to govern the exit of the crisis in a rigorous and pluralistic manner. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is time for this House to show its support for this dialogue and even - let me say it humbly - to learn from it. Let us learn from the social partners, let us do in the field of policy what we have done in this social field; it will be the best passport for our country to cross the borders that lead us to a new normality or, as we have said, to a better normality, echoing the words of the Director of the ILO. Let us be exemplary, ladies and gentlemen, live up to the circumstances, learn from the social dialogue and allow our country to continue to face this health, economic and social crisis with the serenity and caution it deserves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Labour and Social Economy. You are putting in place a series of measures in the field of work to which I am going to vote in favour, trusting that the House will agree to its handling as a bill because there are some issues that would deserve to be amended. You speak, Minister, of the need to combat the destruction of employment with the validation of this royal decree-law, which is brought into full hang of the pact to larceny PSOE, Podemos, Bildu, in which they commit themselves to the complete repeal of the labor reform. I think it is a good time for me to remember with pride that I voted in the Senate in favour of the measures presented in 2012 by an extraordinary minister, Fatima Báñez, who in a short time and thanks to those measures so unjustly repudiated managed to reverse the dramatic result of the unemployment created by Mr Zapatero for millions of Spaniards. To this extent Mrs Báñez reversed it, that Spain became very little time in the European country with job creation rates much higher than the European average. I congratulate the CEO on the incorporation of Mrs Báñez as coordinator of a non-profit foundation for initiatives that will help companies in the face of this crisis in the COVID. For my part, nothing more; I just have to stress that I would like this royal decree-law to be dealt with as a bill, in which case I would table amendments to correct it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u174	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Mazón Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u175	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. In the PRC we believe that the measures that we are going to validate today were necessary and that is why we will vote in favour. I think today is a very good day to remember that the recovery of economic activity is going to depend primarily on the private sector, which has had to stop the most, because public administrations and public employees are going to have a much simpler resumption. Sometimes it seems that there are people here who hate entrepreneurs instead of defending them. We missed the defence of the business sector, of which we have heard nothing for a long time, and you have filled that void today. It is clear that economic recovery will depend to a large extent on the trust that entrepreneurs have in re-opening their businesses. Unfortunately, some people are going to get so expensive they won't be able to go on and they will retire. Fortunately, in Spain this kind of entrepreneur is not very abundant. That is why I would tell the government to leave that state-of-the-art chimera in some group, which we already know throughout history where it leads us. You show up one season the program because the current circumstances are not the same as six months ago. The reality is very clumsy and, even if the opposition does not want to cooperate, answer it with proposals on the table. The truth is that they would have to pronounce themselves, but after seeing and hearing the PP spokesman, all this is very demoralizing. In any case, I'll tell you one thing. Don't worry so much about political parties. Here the key is for the government to reach an agreement with employers and trade unions. That is the ultimate key and its main task is to convince, above all, the part of the Government, its own, that action must be taken in the short term, and that from Europe they will not arrive if we continue with work nonsense like last week. You have to have your feet on the floor, and I think you can't waste your time. Right now, administrations have to start hiring, they have to spend money on investments; we have to create wealth, we have to create jobs, we have to reduce unemployment. Also, as I told you the other day, a large part of the resources end up going back to the state via taxes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u176	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López then has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u177	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating a new decree of labour measures, and we are doing so when just a few days have passed from the indecent agreement of submission to Bildu signed by the Socialist Party and by Podemos to repeal the labor reform. Look, we told you in July, we told you again in January, and we told you again today: stop kneeling before the Batsuns, if they don't do it for their own dignity, do it at least for the dignity of all the Spaniards, who don't deserve to have a government that tries to whitewash a political force that still doesn't depart a millimeter from ETA's strategy. Do the favor of restoring dignity to politics because they are turning it into a mess of shame and a bazaar of indecency [[Applauds]] They have replaced the negotiation, which is basic and which must serve to reach agreements between those we think differently, on something else, on trapping, but it is that in the trapping the one that wins is the one that most cheats makes and the one that lies best, and in that, it is clear that the palm is being taken away by the government because in one day it was able to deceive the PNV, Citizens, the Republican Left and the social agents by entering into an agreement with Bildu in the dark and through the back door, and then also deceive the Bildu himself with whom they had signed that agreement. If you really want to take steps to get the job going and support the workers, first start by paying the ERTE and then generate certainty and confidence in our country, because with these partners who are choosing the only thing that awaits Spain is misery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u178	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since he brought the first royal decree on ERTE, we have been insisting on the holes and contradictions that this defensive strategy had in the face of the economic crisis. The first of these is that it has been pointed out that it is a protection of work, but it is also, above all, a protection of capital because entrepreneurs who in times of profit have not distributed them, precisely at a time of crisis, are not aware of the payment of payrolls and do so companies even with profits, powerful companies that resort to the public sector. Also with regard to tax havens, it was pointed out that it was an exclusive condition of irresponsible entrepreneurs, but the fact is that the majority of IBEX companies have not their headquarters, but subsidiaries in tax havens; that is, almost in the end no one is left out of ERTE. Finally, the last hole in the ERTE strategy is that two exceptions are opened in this last royal decree, in this update, which are very dangerous for the protection of employment, since it was presented as a guarantee that ERTE would prevent future dismissals. It is clear that, with the wording as it has remained, the employer has won, which wanted to open these exceptions in order, unfortunately, to continue having the frying pan by the handle and being able to threaten with layoffs as soon as the ERTE period ends. This is so, and the difficult condition for any collective bargaining is the lowering of the layoff that left the 2012 labor reform, so it is so important to repeal it, even the one that in its day made the PSOE, which also made the layoff cheaper. If it is not with a government that can cope with this letter that always has the employer in hand I can fire because it is cheap and if you do not put conditions in my favor that will be much worse for you because it will go up unemployment, if it is not with a government that has a strategy to deal with this employer that has the frying pan by the handle, it will always be defensive and in the long run it will be lost.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, politics, like life, is a matter of priorities, one has to choose, one has to choose and prioritize action on some subjects or others. I believe that this House has shown a good example of this today. There are those who prioritize concern for the dismissal of two civilian guards, there are those who prioritize their delusions and their sick obsessions with whom we confront them, with Bildu or anyone who confronts them, and there are those who care about the working class. But for those delusions, for that atavistic hatred that they express towards the Basque independenceist sovereignist left, we can only tell you what Periko Solabarria, a veteran Basque anti-Franquist militant, told them: If they don't allow us to dream, we won't let them sleep. It is an honor for us to be the instrument that you both hate, both the extreme right and the extreme right, and, of course, you requested them; at last, all together, as in 1936. And I say that's an obsession or a delusion because surely that's how we understand that even in perspective we look differently. There are those who see that the freedom cut is now brutal, but the 23-F, when some coup soldiers came in here, wasn't, and there are those who will believe that these cuts from up here are the result of the passage of time and not of the shots that these coup soldiers gave here. [[pointing to the ceiling]] You see, you don't even remember the Milans edict of Bosch, which said things like illegalizing all political parties. Maybe I'm in the mood for these new democrats on the right. In any case, as I said to you that this is a matter of priorities and we are dealing with the rights of women workers, I want to go into this matter and say that we appreciate positively the effort contained in the measures you have put forward here today, but we are still concerned. I think you are aware, just like us, that the weakest link in this society is precisely the people who are now being hit in their uncertain future so it seems to be a socio-health crisis transformed into an economic crisis of unknown magnitudes. That is why I say that we appreciate taking such measures well, we appreciate public intervention to protect their rights and their dignity, but we are concerned that all the efforts that are now being made will then have only a balsamic effect on what they are going to find if what is to be found later is a Cainite labour market, a labour market that continues to deprive women workers of their rights for the greater glory of employers. I understand that certain entrepreneurs don't like that they remember anything about Euskal Herria Bildu. It is not for us to think that those who do not stand for election may want to continue to determine how we have to work and support women workers anywhere in the Spanish State, in the current Spanish State. But, as I was saying, this is important, but it has to have continuity, because it seems that money is there, it's not just a statement of intent or a gesture of goodwill, it seems that money is there. They have just matched the salary to the State Security Forces and Bodies, and we could also allocate an important item so that what has to come later with the new reality of the labour market is a reality of the labour market where public intervention guarantees and provides resources to the people who need it most. We also believe that in order to get more money we can talk about taxation, and we will have to talk about taxation and wealth tax, and we will have to see this is something that in this decree we would have liked to see with a greater degree of definition or pulcrity how we avoid that companies that are hosting ERTE can continue to divert some of their resources or not paying what is theirs, either because they use tax havens, which is true that this is detailed, or because they use financial engineering, as it is so euphemistically called, for through subsidiaries to continue paying less than they should pay. We are also concerned that there are no more decisive measures in relation to the Labour Inspectorate. We know they're doing a lot, we know they're willing to do more, but we know that reality today is bleeding. On some occasions we have transferred the reality of the laborers in Andalusia. Today I want to talk to you about Ebhisa, a company in Xixon where seven workers are on hunger strike because the company, which is hosted by ERTE for 100 percent of the workforce, has decided not to carry out the replacement rate that could and thus amortize these jobs. I ask you, Minister, to pay attention to this reality because this company depends on the Port Authority of Xixon, and that, in short, has something to do with the public character of things. We are also concerned that transnational corporations may already be sharpening their knives to crucify the Spanish State to millionaire demands for the measures that the Spanish State is taking to protect the citizens. We believe that the transnationals - with which Mr Garamendi will surely have few problems in meeting - will already be thinking through the investment agreements and the courts how to continue to draw money from everyone and everyone to satisfy their speculative desires. I'm finishing up. You mentioned, I think, two days ago, information or data obtained from reports from the Banco de España. I have also done so on some occasion, and I think that we should once again tell the people that it is the Banco de España itself that determines that 1 % of the population of the Spanish State has 25.7 % of the wealth; that it is the Banco de España itself that says that 10 % of the population has more than 90 % of the wealth of the country. People will also have to be told that it is the Banco de España that says that during the previous crisis wages were devalued by 15%. People will also have to be told that the Chamber of Commerce of Spain - which is also not suspected of being conniving with us and ourselves - says that it is time for those who want to destroy the system to be separated, the same one that says that society as a whole has gone very well with the social market economy. We do not want the new normality if that new normality is the one that existed before: the normality of evictions, precarious employment, insufficient pensions, energy poverty, feminization of poverty, entrepreneurial pressure, mercantilization of care - and with residences it has been seen in a clear, dramatic and tragic way -. In short, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, we believe that this is a matter of priorities: to pay attention to what those who want to maintain the status quo say because it goes very well, even if the majority are going very badly or, on the contrary, to keep in mind the workers of the household, of residences and cleaning, the 'kellys', the workers - those of the metal and those of any sector -, the miners, the taxi drivers, the stavesmen and the professionals of health, of public education and of care; those to whom from the balconies applauded at eight in the afternoon thanking them for the effort they had made to sustain the thread of life in difficult times. It may now touch that we are able to guarantee them a future not of three months, not of six months, but longer to reward the dignity they offered by showing that they and they were the essential ones, above the members of the IBEX boards of directors. [[Finish your euskera intervention]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u182	Thank you very much. I give the floor, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, to Mr Barandiaran Benito. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, thank you for your attention. I'll start at the end. The first paragraph of the first additional provision of this Royal Decree-Law states that, by agreement of the Council of Ministers, it is possible to extend the consequences of these ERTs beyond 30 June. We understand that this is the answer to the philosophy, the motivation of this and of previous real decree-laws: to accompany the process of economic and labor reactivation in order to allow the companies that have just paralysed their activity as a result of the health crisis of COVID to reintegrate into their activity and, therefore, in some way reverse the consequences not only in the health order, but also in the social and economic of this crisis. I would also like to highlight another issue that is being highlighted in other interventions, that this royal decree-law incorporates into the normative framework an agreement in the field of social dialogue, which had not been very frequent so far; it is important to clarify this. It also does so through a series of measures that you have stated and of which I will simply make a brief account and then comment on some questions about them. It begins with an article 1 that extends until 30 June those force majeure ERTs that were created as a result of the COVID-19 - which even, once we have commented, legally can be a different thing - to then create a new legal rank which is that of partial force majeure that had not existed until now. Indeed, it is a necessary measure, complementary to those which exist but also adapted to reality. Similarly, Article 2 uses the same measure with respect to ERTE, but this already applies to ERTE for economic, technical or productive reasons as referred to in Article 23 of the previous Royal Decree-Law 8/2020. It also allows it to pass from an ERTE of the ancients by force majeure to these ERTE ETOP, it has called them, for economic, technical, operational or production reasons. Indeed, that is also a situation where there may not be enough definition and it will have to be taken up again for greater legal precision, as it has seemed to us to have some degree of indefinition. Article 3 provides for the survival of the unemployment protection measures provided for in Article 25, with the same horizon as 30 June, but also for the specificity of the fixed discontinuous measures which it incorporates until 31 December. Eye!, this is a measure that can not only be applied with respect to the fixed discontinuous. We will then see in the analysis what is the situation of other types of contracts and also of other sectors possibly. Its article 4 seems to us, together with the final provision, to be one of the most relevant. It calls for measures to exempt social security contributions, which are designed in some way to push the move towards activity and to do so in a broader way, incorporating more part-time workers, and also provides for the charging of their costs from the social security budgets, a matter on which I will then give you an annotation. However, and linked to this provision, it is appropriate to draw attention to the measure referred to in the first subparagraph of the second subparagraph of the second subparagraph which provides for the possibility that, by agreement of the Council of Ministers, the exemptions provided for ERTs may be extended by force majeure and that they may be extended to ERTs for ETOP reasons. This is a crucial issue in my view. It is true that appropriate measures have been taken, but I believe that this transit between the two measures should be done more precisely and give it greater legal certainty, if it does not matter. And, as far as its operative part is concerned, Article 5 first concludes with the exclusion of those domiciled in tax havens and then with the limitation in respect of companies which share dividends. We share that philosophy, but we also understand that these nuances may not be sufficiently precise so that, from the point of view of legal certainty, they can then be transferred not so much to the law, but to the interpreter of the law, because we believe that the difficulties will be added both for the social agents and for the courts and, possibly - worse - for the public administration, which will have to interpret them. However, he said that he wanted to highlight from this royal decree-law the measure provided for in its final provision 1(3) as it redrafts the sixth additional provision of Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 and thereby the guarantee of the safeguard of the employment envisaged. There are two issues I wanted to raise with you in relation to that paragraph. On the one hand, according to paragraph one, the requirement of employment protection is addressed exclusively to ERTs by force majeure and ERTs are excluded because of ETOP, which in the future may lead to a certain contradiction, since the first subparagraph of the second additional provision provides for the possibility of extending ERT exemption measures to those for ETOP reasons in the future, which does not appear to have an added guarantee in that case. The second subparagraph of paragraphs 2 and 4 of that undertaking excludes undertakings at risk of competing with creditors. It was already in 8/2020 and it is incorporated, but it does so through a new definition that although we understand it is more accurate not so it will be sufficient nor will it avoid conflicts as to its interpretation. It should be noted, however, that the list of cases in which that requirement is not considered to be non-compliance, the one in paragraph 2, is broader and adds to it a more precise definition of the case of the invitation to tender linked to the Competition Act. Finally, I wanted to give you three little thoughts. He said at first that this royal decree-law elevates the consequences of social dialogue to the normative framework, and he said it as a virtue. Well, that is the precision I wanted to make to claim that any change in the work environment outside this formula of the social agreement will suffer from the virtue that we preach at this time of this legal transposition. Second thought. That, without prejudice to its justification, the imputation in the Social Security budget of the cost of the exemptions envisaged as aid should be noted. The parties supporting the Government and myself have agreed in the context of the Toledo Pact to defend in a constant way so much that any measure affecting the pension system must be dealt with in advance in the Toledo Pact as, above all, must be based on the principle of separation of sources and of compensation, I would say, for the social security system. Well, this measure is far from both parameters and I want to make it clear because I think it is a dangerous and pernicious precedent. And, third and final reflection, that, apart from the measures envisaged by this royal decree-law, it is appropriate to reflect on the feasibility of a regulation of a general nature such as the one we are dealing with, which puts on the table the debate on the desirability of it being through such formulas and not by others more adapted to particular issues of the crisis, and I am referring here to hypothetical plans, for example, for tourism or hospitality, or to others that affect us more directly in Euskadi, such as the aeronautical industry, or the automotive assistant, or in particular the machine tool, which may require special plans with specific measures adapted to this regulatory framework for social aid. Nothing more, Minister. He knows that we will also agree on these kinds of issues in the future. I thank you for your attention and, above all, for giving it also to the particularities that I have pointed out to you in my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u185	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. One more week we are in this Chamber and one more week I cannot begin in any other way than by reminding the thousands of dead, their loved ones and those who continue to fight the disease, and I continue to show my thanks to all those who accompany them, help and care, who are the health workers. Also to all those who make everything possible for our security and supply to be maintained. Yes, it is true that today we have news, we are officially in mourning. I have to tell you that, although it is better late than never, in the opinion of my parliamentary group this mourning comes late, two and a half months after the statement of the state of alarm and after hours, days and black weeks in which they have died we no longer know how many people, because if before yesterday there were 2000 fewer deaths in the registers, today the system of monitoring the mortality of the civil registers comes out suddenly 12,000 more dead. One more week, we also discussed a royal decree of the Government seeking, in addition to mitigating and alleviating the devastating economic and social consequences of this crisis, to amend previous measures of his Government. And I repeat myself in that rostrum, it is true, but you have fashioned the amendment this season. In addition, one more week, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we are being given a decree with something that has become a classic by your executive, measures that, on the one hand, are very reasonable and have been put on the table by my parliamentary group, by Citizens, but that adhere to them with unexplained limitations, I do not know whether it is the result of ideological prejudices by this government or simply the result of the ignorance of the reality of our country's productive fabric. So one more week Citizens will request the processing of this royal decree as an emergency bill to give the House the opportunity that the government has been claiming to steal, the opportunity to discuss and improve it. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I also announce that we will vote in favour of this royal decree because we believe that some of the measures it includes are absolutely necessary and because it also complies with one of the conditions that Citizens put in place to support the fourth extension of the state of alarm. Again, I hope that you will understand the importance of dialogue, agreement and consensus before issuing decrees and not after, and that you will come to the House with your duties done. You know that you have in Citizens a party of state, that not your partner of government, as you and we know, and that we are satisfied, as are other parliamentary groups present here, even if you do not want to recognize it, that the ERTE and other measures accompanying you in this royal decree never again depend on you winning or losing a vote. Minister, you know I appreciate you, but get used to talking to the opposition, don't do it just when you need to. They lose fear of dialogue and consensus. I know that part of your Government is allergic to consensus, but I assure you that, in the midst of a pandemic, a consensual response is the only thing that can assure citizens. If you had sought consensus, surely we would not have a real decree-law like the one you bring today, which includes a series of positive improvements and demanded by my group but which at the same time imposes too strict conditions for companies that benefit from these improvements. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, if these conditions that you intend to impose remain as counterproductive to companies, you will not be able to regain the level of employment before the crisis. I'm going to give you two examples. According to you, the company that wants to extend the ERTE by force majeure beyond 30 June will not be able to distribute dividends in the same fiscal year. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this is absurd. Have you evaluated how this measure can affect the value of listed companies? What job can a company that has to make adjustments after a financial stalemate maintain? How fair is this measure for Spanish companies that have to endure a condition that will absolve foreign investment and that is not required in other countries? Another of the surprising measures is that you force companies to maintain the employment of all your workers in an ERTE for the six months following the return of the activity and that, if you do not - not because you are not going to want to but because you are not going to be able - you tell them that you will have to return all the exemptions you were going to benefit from for having welcomed the ERTE that you recommended to you. Do you realize the disproportion and injustice of this measure, which can be a dot for many companies at the worst of times? Frankly, it does not seem balanced that the result of non-compliance affecting a single worker or a few is the obligation to repay the amount of contributions exempted by all workers. That is why I insist, gentlemen of the Government, that we will try to improve this decree by requesting its processing as a bill. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the opportunity to improve this decree-law will not be stolen from the opposition. And in the minute I have left you will understand that I cannot go up to my seat without speaking of the vodka mounted this week by the Spanish Government, at the worst of times and with the worst of matters. Yes, I'm talking to you about the asshole you guys have with the 2012 labor reform. [[The lady]] We think it's buchonous in depth and form. How you have been able to generate so much uncertainty with one of the issues on which the future of millions of families, the livelihood and the subsistence of millions of Spaniards depends! Firstly, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, signing an agreement with Bildu is an immorality, whatever the content. But in addition, you did it on the same day that Bildu refused to condemn the harassment of the Basque socialists. With these companies a Democrat would not have to go to sign or inherit. But, in any case, on the merits, we also reject the complete repeal of the 2012 labour reform contained in that agreement between PSOE, União Podemos and Bildu. Do you really want to go back to the old labour law, which has shown the inability to solve our employment problems? The law that has kept us constantly in a structural unemployment of 18% on average? The solution is not to repeal entirely, but to look forward, with reforms and proposals that will make us face the future with guarantees. This means analysing what has worked and what has not worked well and, depending on the results, making the necessary changes to continue to move forward and adapt our work model to the 21st century. So the best thing you could do here today is to commit...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u186	Mrs. Muñoz, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u187	Yeah, I'm done. The best thing you could do here today is to commit to stop taking the global pandemic as a campaign period and competition between you. The moment we are going through is historic, so please leave the ideological battles for another time and we are up to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. Mr Rego has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as you know, the BNG was not a supporter of the ERTE system because we understood that there was a better solution, that was to really ban layoffs and guarantee wages. But since I have very little time, I'm going to be very direct, I'm not going to talk about it. One thing is propaganda and another is reality. You announce measures that sell as very positive but that later do not match the letter of the BOE. As with the so-called ban on dismissal, which in the end was not such but simply to move from one direction to another, also in this decree the music and the lyrics do not fully harmonize. The ERTE is extended until 30 June, but at the same time the employment safeguard clause is made more flexible. In addition to the fact that this clause applies only to ERTE by force majeure and not to those caused by ETOP, the door is opened to employers not having to keep jobs for six months and to be able to fire. You mentioned one case, but there's one more. Even dismissals that fail to meet the criteria will not be considered null and void. By the way, what is going to happen to ERTEs beyond 30 June in a totally normalized socio-economic situation, with many activities still paralysed or at least and with workers consuming unemployment? Another measure they announced as a hugely positive one was to exclude from aid companies with a presence in tax havens. Once again the letter of the BOE says something else. The limitation is for those who have a tax base in tax havens, but not for those who have a presence through subsidiaries, something that other countries have done. In that case, there are practically all IBEX 35 companies. According to this decree, all will be able to receive aid, starting with the Banco de Santander, which according to data of Intermón Oxfam is located at the head with more than two hundred subsidiaries in territories considered tax havens. I finish, as I said, one thing is propaganda and another is reality. And we are with the harsh reality of the workers welcomed to ERTE, in many cases still uncollected, and not with propaganda. That's why we can't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u190	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor of Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today there were two surnames that have been here all morning: Grande-Marlaska and López de los Cobos. On the other hand, we have forgotten the millions of surnames that did not want us to talk about those two, that wanted us to talk about employment, work, that's what they want us to talk about, not a colonel and a minister. We believe that this is a necessary decree, that there are good things, and that is why we will vote for it, but we will also make amendments. The priority of the citizens today was not the dismissal of a colonel, the resignation of a minister, the obscene claim of the right to get rid of misfortunes; the priority of the citizens is precisely to prevent dismissals, save businesses, let no one stay behind. That's what it's about, not ministers and colonels. I insist, there are positive things, but we will also vote that it is treated as a bill because we understand that on the issue of subsidiaries - as Mr Rego has said - there is scope. We proposed it in an extension of the state of alarm. And we also believe that there is flexibility in the retention of employment clause. And contrast this - what I was interested in - with a news that came out today and that, in truth, disappoints, and I'm going to finish. There are still revolving doors; that is, there will be two former socialist ministers who will return to very well-paid jobs - as other former PP ministers had - in this state-owned enterprise. I insist, citizens want people to be the priority, no one to be left behind, there to be negotiation and social dialogue, as has been the case here with the territories, with political formations and with social actors. Citizens want job dignity and opportunities for all, regardless of where they were born, be it Murcia, Valencia, Navarre or the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u192	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u193	I'm done. We will vote yes, although, I insist, we will make some amendments to improve this decree. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u194	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u195	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, we will vote in favour of the royal decree because, as you know, we are in an exceptional situation and we understand that all this series of measures is needed, but, as other parliamentary groups have said, these measures also need some retouching and some amendments. You used to call for this to be born out of social dialogue and agreement between companies and workers; you would also have to be born out of understanding with the rest of the parliamentary groups. Therefore, just as we are going to vote in favour of the Royal Decree-Law, we ask you to also vote in favour, as we are, of the parliamentary procedure, because, apart from agreeing to disassociate the ERTEs to the greater force, as is done; apart from agreeing to change the system of contributions, benefiting from a gradual return to the new normality, and apart from agreeing that the inspiration of this Royal Decree comes from social dialogue, there is much to improve. One is the issue of planning. You generate great uncertainty. This BOE leaves on 13 May and includes measures for the month of May and the month of June. The contribution measures for the month of May are worse than before, i.e. they were previously exempt from the contribution and, as of May, active and inactive workers have to take up part of the contribution. Therefore, with regard to the thirteen days of May, it might be necessary to consider how the non-retroactivity of the provisions to this forecast affects. Then there is the question that has been raised here of safeguarding employment; of course, a criterion that has already come out of the Directorate-General for Labour: pensions, situations of disability, voluntary layoffs of workers do not compute in safeguarding employment. But you invent a new concept that is the risk of competition. This concept is a totally indeterminate legal concept, in which whoever is at risk of competition - which we do not know very well what it is - is going to argue it, but then, if he does not compete, they will tell him that he has made traps with the safeguard of employment. It requires greater precision and legal rigour to label this figure of the risk of competition. As well as something else that has emerged before, adapt this requirement of safeguarding employment to the reality of businesses. We always think of the famous IBEX 35, the big companies, which cannot divide dividends between matrices and subsidiaries, but we think little, I think, of the small SMEs that have to return to normal with much more difficulty. Perhaps criteria of not six months, but two or more criteria more linked to recovering the billing they had previously, can be much more useful for small SMEs in relation to the commitment of employment safeguard. In short, we ask you to abandon marketing by saying that you will not be able to distribute dividends to companies that have hosted ERTE and land, to put their feet on the ground in relation to reality and the situation. When you say that you cannot pay dividends, you also put into conflict another issue that is basic in many SMEs: the right to separate partners when there is no dividend sharing. How do you solve this? For in the royal decree there is no contribution on this issue. In short, we ask that it be treated as a draft law, that we be able to have room to incorporate all the amendments that will help to improve or give more legal certainty to businesses and workers and, in the end, also to put into use both the ERTE and - let me say, Minister - the payment of unemployment benefits. We are glad that this week the email 'Miprestation2020@sepe.es' has been made available to all those people who do not yet receive the benefit. We will also be glad that, in some way, we will be made clear how this health of labour reform is going to end, whether it is immediately repealed or repealed - as you yourself told us in the first Commission in which you appeared in Congress - in three phases or whether at the end, as we are already seeing the promises of this government, neither is it repealed nor is anything done, only headlines are generated to throw the ball forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u196	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u197	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. The working classes, i.e. the wage-earners, the self-employed, the SMEs, the unemployed, the excluded, are again beaten and it is not a short-term thing; we are already in 2020, twelve years later we know that it was not a crisis, it is precisely the new normality. The crisis of the coronavirus has invented nothing, it has only accentuated the problems inherent in the system, a system based on job insecurity, unemployment, the submerged economy, the poor workers, exploitation, chronic temporality, low wages, the plundering of social security, youth unemployment, etc. But we are going to the royal decree-law, which we are going to vote in favour, although we also ask that, if it can be, it be treated as a bill because we have some recommendations to make to improve it in the form of amendments. Something has already been said here: it seems that entities and companies that have their headquarters in tax havens will not be able to apply force majeure ERTE with the corporate benefits and savings that this entails. Right, but the current wording of the Royal Decree-Law refers to companies that have tax domicile in tax havens. How many companies think they have their name put there, that they have their tax headquarters in a tax haven? Unless they are the companies of the Bourbons, most of the companies have their entire network of subsidiaries, of testaferros, of financial engineering, etc., so that they do not catch them. No one can be so naive, you have to clarify exactly this. If they want this measure to have real effects, it must be made applicable to the entire business network that has its businesses in tax havens. But beyond this measure, tax evasion is a terrible scourge for society and must be pursued, not only not receiving aid. There is an urgent need for ad hoc legislation to combat it with very harsh sanctions that will, if necessary, lead to its seizure or expropriation. Tax evasion kills, it's money that doesn't go to health or education, it's economic terrorism, so it shouldn't be allowed, not just not to receive aid. Another point. It is clear that companies and entities that take advantage of the profits arising from the extension of ERTs by force majeure will not be able to share dividends during the fiscal year, as agreed. But this measure must be retroactive, and that is where we are when we expect it to be treated as a bill to discuss it. Following the payment of ERTEs, why is your Government insisting that all benefits have been paid when hundreds of thousands of people testify that it is not true? The Generalitat de Catalunya itself estimates that 80 000 of the people affected by ERTE are still unpaid today; and just in Catalonia, imagine yourself in the rest of the state. I believe that the Socialist Government needs, as the colleague said before, to prioritize and be courageous. A socialist government would have already put the bank on the left-hand path, and would have imposed on them the advance payment of all ERTE to rescue people. One day we rescue them, now it's up to them to rescue people. We've always said the state of alarm is, but for what? Why has the state of alarm not been used to impose that the bank on behalf of the sacred Constitution is subject to the general interest, advancing all the liquid necessary to pay the ERTE? This is the question I ask you. Indeed, the aspect that hurts us the most - and in this they will always have us face - is that the new royal decree-law keeps the exemption from the payment of business quotas by Social Security. As you well know, Social Security feeds on contributors, on workers, employees and self-employed people, is our deferred salary. Why with this money, which only the workers pay, should we pay exclusively for the effects of a crisis not caused by the contributors? It doesn't make any sense and you're perfectly aware of it. We are against the fact that it is the workers who subsidize companies. Emptying the Social Security box for workers is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow or, worse still, hunger for our pensioners, for our current pensioners. We demand, Madam Minister, that the money equivalent to social security exemptions should come out of the state's budgets, not from loans or credits; it is enough to be in debt to social security. You know that. Let also those who live on income, which affects corporation tax, the IRPF of the richest, the creation of new taxes on the great fortunes. Today we offer you another way using the holder of the Finance: cut down useless and millionaire games, such as that of armament or the maintenance of the Royal House, which at the moment is useless. There is already too much money coming out of Social Security - we talked about it with Minister Escriva - perhaps more than EUR 20 billion, with which things are paid that should never be paid; let us not charge it any more. Neither is it acceptable nor does we have any room for capital income to continue to expolate to labour income. We must protect the Social Security box because there is the last social security rebate for working classes. That's the bloodiest point for us. That is why we demand that business bonuses be stopped by workers via social security, that workers affected by ERTE do not suffer the reduction of their unemployment benefit to 50% of their regulatory base from six months on. Mrs. Díaz, we look forward to much of your ministry, much of it, especially if it is consistent. At the moment we have an outstanding account of 215 million euros, which continues to hurt us very much. His Government has repeatedly assured that it is facilitating access to ERTE in order to avoid permanent terminations of employment contracts, it is true; well, we do not discuss that need, yet again we find inconsistencies between what they say and some things they do. The actual decree in question sets the deadline for force majeure ERTs for 30 June, but as from 30 June there will remain restrictions. It is essential that the maximum time limit for force majeure ERTs be extended to those sectors where the development of their professional activity is impossible; for many companies and sectors it is essential to extend that time limit to at least twelve months. Secondly, we need to clarify what this commitment to maintaining the level of employment means, because, if we do not specify it, as you know, companies will continue to be able to reduce the number of workers in their workforce by the completion of temporary contracts, by disciplinary dismissals, by voluntary layoffs... If we really want to maintain the level of real employment, it must be legislated so that, when a justified drop is caused, it is followed by a justified discharge as well. Both you and we are clear that there are many aspects in which labour reform has seriously damaged the living conditions of working people. At this point, and in order to be as practical as possible, we put to you a concrete and urgent proposal: that all ERTEs have to be approved by the labour authority again. The text we are discussing encourages and facilitates the concatenation of force majeure ERTs with economics; well, if there is no one to control it this will continue and in a few months this will again be a crush on the working class. Then comes the moment of truth and they will have to decide. For the moment, we have heard again and again that in this crisis the government of the PSOE and the United We may not act as did the governments of Mr Zapatero and Mr Rajoy, but for the moment only a reality has been evidenced between his government and the previous ones: the previous ones supported the regime with a modification of the Constitution, of article 135, with the Law gag and labor reforms, and you no longer need to change the Constitution, you no longer need to make the labor reform, you no longer need the Law gag, because it is already done, then you have to repeal and quickly, urgently...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u198	Mr. Salvador i Duch, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u199	I'm done. We must repeal and urgently - I am not going to say all the things that would have to be repealed because you know them from memory - because, if we do not urgently repeal a number of things, the machinery is already prepared for the same thing that happened in 2010, that is, everything prepared for there to be a sangria in the working classes that I am sure you do not want and neither do we. That is why we want it to be treated as a bill to be able to improve this royal decree and, if it continues along the path we are proposing, it will always have us by its side. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, minister. Today we are discussing the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 of 12 May of social measures in defense of employment. Basically, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree comes to cover two needs in the normative field. Firstly, the extension of the ERTE provided for in Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 and, secondly, the disconnection of the ERTE from the state of alarm, a norm and tools, the ERTE, which, accompanied by an unprecedented effort to mobilize public resources, are helping in times of enormous importance and enormous historical difficulty for our economy, but fundamentally our society, not to be paralyzed. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is important to highlight something equally unprecedented, such as the search for a pact with the social partners. This royal decree has been drawn up in response to and listening to demands and proposals from all social and territorial actors, as well as from political and business groups. We do not remember, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that clothes are systematically torn with regard to the pact and dialogue with the social partners, that there would be negotiations with the social partners in order to promote their labour reform, their gifts to the bank and their cuts and privatizations of public services at other times. The negotiation and the search for pacts are already a sign of identity in the little more than a hundred days of this government and particularly - we believe - of the portfolio of Labour and Social Economy. It was done with the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, it has been done again with the ERTE and we are sure that it will be done, whenever available, with all the reforms proposed by this ministry. And yes, the basic premise is no longer to benefit the usual ones, as it was in other financial or economic crises; the premise is now to ensure the majority and the general interest. In general, this royal decree, in our view, comes to define how to do the things of this government, which very much contrasts with the management of the financial crisis that the People's Party has done over the past decade. In the face of the EREs of the People's Party, which led to the rise of unemployment, the ERTEs, which in a limited situation are giving stability to workers and businesses. Faced with this tax amnesty for evaders and fraudsters, conditionality of aid to commitment to employment and fiscal responsibility. Faced with the order and command of another time, negotiation, pooling and pact with the social actors. And finally, in the face of the protection of a minority and the benefits of a few, such as banking, today it is a matter of us all deploying a very broad social shield. Secondly, in the face of the external flexibility of the right-wing governments, which imposed dismissal as a solution to the economic problems of businesses, a measure is proposed that gives us internal flexibility to ensure the maintenance of employment, the resilience of businesses, the subsistence of families and, above all, the ability to consume to re-activate the economy. Faced with the usual recipes of the right - wage devaluation, poverty and inequality -, policies to guarantee the incomes of working people and self-employed people. Faced with those cuts that impoverished families in the previous financial crisis and in the face of aggressive labour reform, on this occasion the usual ones will not pay for the situation. And look, the social shield that with great effort and mobilization of public resources is deploying this government already reaches 6.7 million people, that is, more than double the number of people protected by the state than in the previous financial crisis. To that end, ladies and gentlemen of the right, you have to serve the state, to protect people, especially when they are badly given. And let us not be confused, these are measures of protection for people, but also measures of protection for small and medium-sized enterprises, because the State assumes, as you know, the costs of companies' staffing so that they do not have to close. In conclusion - and I am going to say it low so as not to return to the situation of chrispation of other moments -, faced with the 'fucking' of that labor reform of a few years ago, now it is about deploying a social shield so as not to leave anyone behind. Thirdly, another clause as necessary as it is innovative: companies sharing dividends and those operating in tax havens cannot benefit from ERTE. This involves, on the one hand, concentrating support on those sectors and companies that really need it and, on the other, a question of fiscal justice so as not to feed from the public coffers to those who do not want to contribute to what is common. This procedure contrasts greatly with what they did from the right-wing government in the previous financial crisis with that tax amnesty for evaders and fraudsters. So let's not get confused. As Mr Julio Anguita said, quoted here today - and from here our tribute as a parliamentary group to that enormous leader and politician - we have nothing against wealth, what we want is for it to be broken up and put an end to poverty. In short, this crisis highlights how destructive neoliberal policies that the right have sustained where they have ruled and where they still govern: Rajoy's model, Mr. Casado's model, Mrs. Ayuso's model or Mr. Feijóo's model. Its dogmas have become absolutely evident and now it is time to analyse the consequences of cuts and privatizations on health, education and dependency, as well as austerity policies, deindustrialization and putting everything into speculation or precarious employment. You have made us a weaker country. In any case, we are living in an exceptional situation that requires extraordinary solutions, and only a strong State and an unwavering defence of the public as a common good can promote them. We are at a crucial time in history: health crisis, epidemiological crisis, but also climate crisis and economic and social crisis. Society, workers, businesses and families have proved to be up to the challenge. Let us show ourselves and ourselves, politicians and politicians, that we also live up to and that we all have a future to build. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u203	With all due respect, Madam President. Incomplete, late and with important trances, minister. This royal decree knows that it is the result of falsehood, fear, blackmail and negligence that we could see in the debate of the fourth extension of the state of alarm, in which the benefit of the ERTE was conditional upon such extension, when indeed Article 28 of the Royal Decree-Law 8/2020, as you well know, extended the duration and benefits of the ERTE as long as the effects of the pandemic lasted. There was a substantial change in Royal Decree-Law 9/2020 in the first additional provision. Here even the Foro Asturias deputy has been reprimanded for voting against, but probably some of the votes against were for that, because the rules of the game were changed at the time. In the first additional provision, the duration of the pandemic is no longer a priority to limit it to the duration of the state of alarm. We are now discussing separating the maintenance of ERTE from the alarm phase. What was said by the President of the Government to the opposition of the People's Party was humiliating; they will already defend themselves, but it was humiliating, because it was a vile blackmail on something that was legally impossible. Mr Aitor Esteban of the PNV was in charge of saying this here, that he knew perfectly well that the government was already managing the possibility of reaching the pact that has now been seen. Ladies and gentlemen, we say negligence because, if it is agreed, at the hearing on 21 April I asked you a very specific question, whether the additional sixth provision for safeguarding employment was applicable to the force majeure EERTs, and whether the EERTs in Article 23 were also applicable to such a safeguard despite the State Advocate's reports of 3, 7 and 11 April. You told me yes to both; I asked you again twice and you told me yes to both, and now it turns out that in this royal decree you are saying no, that it is only applicable to the force majeure ERTs of article 22. I told him, I told him that he was a young person with a long future and I also told him that the sixth additional provision was impossible to comply with; and it is so impossible to comply that that has actually changed. Article 23, which is due to ETOP, is already outside the scope of employment protection. We are also talking about negligence because there has been a violation of the principle of security in article 9.3 of the Constitution, because the rules of the game have been changed in the middle of the game. In Royal Decree 8/2020 there were two lines on employment safeguard. In Royal Decree 11, two weeks later, four lines, and in this one there are twenty lines. In these twenty lines, the sanctions that were imposed on those who did not comply with the safeguard of employment, which was the return of social security quotas, have changed, and more charges are now introduced, more sanctions are introduced. Well, it wasn't then and now it's back. With this, those who chose ETOP during that time for objective forces or for reasons of force majeure have much to do with what you said. It has also been said here, indeed, that the sixth additional provision of this royal decree is in conjunction with the sixth additional provision of Royal Decree 8/2020, which specifically states that the full amount of the contributions from which they were paid is exempt from the surcharge and the interest of delay will be the payment that will have to be made to those who fail to comply with the safeguard of employment. Does this mean that on a staff of fifty workers the dismissal of a worker implies the punishment of the fifty workers for the company? Does it mean that this company loses the help it has had for all the workers? If this were so, it would certainly be unforgivable, because it would be to charge all companies with a pen, even if we are talking about nominal maintenance of the staff or we are talking about precise maintenance of each of the workers; and this in this royal decree does not appear. And it is that, of course, it has an original sin that is the beginning of everything, because they have done it wrong. By the way, Minister, I was commenting on the offices of the State Advocate through her director general, a great professional, of 3, 7 and 11 April in relation to the ERTE of 23. What are we waiting for to be clarified, as I have just said, by the Office of the Directorate-General for Labour? Or is it possible that you are paralysing it to clarify whether we are talking about the return of a single worker or the return of the entire staff, as the representative of the Citizens' Group has also said? In short, also negligence - and I told you - that was impossible to fulfill. They have already given a way out through companies that are in pre-competitive status and make a specific reference to article 5.2 of the Competition Act of 2003; indeed, already reformed - as you know - as a consolidated text by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2020, although the article is actually the same; consolidated text that has been innovative, new rules have been introduced in legislative production. I'll give you some advice. When we are going to implement European Directive 2019/1023, we must tackle the second opportunity among all of us. The second opportunity is not succeeding in Spain, it is not having any positive results, unlike what is happening in the rest of Europe, and for this it will be necessary to undertake also, on that second occasion...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u204	Mr. Aizcorbe, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u205	...exemption of public funds. I'm done, Madam President. When I talk about negligence, falsehood, fear, blackmail, even... We are all - or not - overwhelmed by the pact with Bildu on labour reform. There's talk of abrogation, and I don't know if they want to go to Labor. We are talking about modification, but we do not know in what terms, although they are announced. Indeed, in that direction they go in the opposite direction, because, today, the only photograph of the left in the Government, its only social shield, are the tails of the hunger of the left. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u206	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Angulo Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u207	Thank you, President. September 2012. Paul Iglesias: 'Believe me if I tell you that being the son of a FRAP militant...'. The FRAP was a terrorist organization. It is unacceptable, Madam President, that you want to remove a factual fact from the Journal of Sessions. [[Shows a press article.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u208	Mrs Angulo, please do not argue with the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is facing the hardest economic crisis in recent decades, a result of a public health crisis that the government acted late and badly. The Spaniards took great personal and economic sacrifices to overcome the virus, but they did not expect to have to do so with a government that has made its management negligent and opaque the best ally of the virus. Every day new data proves that they left a crucial time to tackle the pandemic only on ideological issues, those who want to continue hiding even with the immoral cessation of a good public servant. Then, they took as their only measure to control the virus the most widespread state of alarm in our environment, which has led us to numbers of scandalous deaths, to an unprecedented crisis and to millions of broken lives. Again, our memory for the victims and their families. Today, economic and social damage is proportional to its continuous mistakes. Millions of self-employed without activity and workers in ERTE; 120,000 businesses and 1 million jobs destroyed and nearly 30,000 dead. And you're celebrating that we're getting stronger with this? Stop disrespecting those who still mourn their dead today and have no food to eat. While you, minister, presume to have taken millions of people to ERTE, self-employed and SMEs live in fear of not being able to save their businesses and hundreds of thousands of workers still do not charge their ERTE and suffer the anguish of not being able to feed their children, increasing daily the queues of hunger. The ERTEs, Mrs Díaz, must be approved, but above all they must be paid. DNA on the left: promise and not pay. Get out of your blushing bubble and stop making up the numbers. You have legislated with improvisation, without listening to the sectors concerned or to this party, which loyally proposed to you a health, economic and legal plan that you did not want to hear. They're only right when they rectify, but, in the meantime, a lot of people are staying on the road. We will support this decree because, among other things, it implies a recognition of its falsehoods, a recognition of what we said to them: that the extension of the ERTE did not depend on the state of alarm. That was just a blackmail to extend the kidnapping of freedoms into which you have turned it. We are right today, but it is still insufficient, and we will therefore call for it to be treated as a bill. Its chaotic measures of descalation, its continuous attacks on our productive sectors, whose image discredited, and the absence of a plan have extended the closure of many companies. It is vital to extend ERTE; tourism, hospitality, industry, trade need it to survive, because even if the health crisis is over, the economy will continue and you offer them nothing by July. Why? Because they don't know how to pay for it? Well, look, that's your exclusive responsibility. You cannot leave companies and workers abandoned because you squander public accounts to finance Pedro Sánchez's election campaign with his social Fridays, because it is not decent to ask for sacrifices from citizens while maintaining and fattening in the midst of the crisis their mastodontic government. And stop using the crisis for political purposes, because it's not saving lives, it's political purposes, what's behind the indecent agreement with Bildu to repeal labor reform; a kick in social dialogue. Repealing the labour reform it served to recover the millions of jobs destroyed by the socialist sangrias, which is being key for workers to welcome ERTE and that the European Union, whose support is indispensable, qualifies as useful and positive is a capital irresponsibility. You, Minister, have to tell us today who you are with, whether with Bildu and Mr. Iglesias or with the companies, with the Galician workers, extremists... and with all the Spanish. If you are with Bildu with whom you are, you are paving the way for destroying thousands of businesses and for those ERTE to become ERE and millions of unemployed. Do you know the consequences of this? Well, look, I, humbly, will tell you, and Mr. Baldoví too. I don't know where you were in 2011, but I ran a town hall where unemployed families came every day, because a socialist government, first, tricked you into hiding figures and, later, could not cope with what was coming, like now; families that couldn't pay their mortgages and overflowed the social eateries, like now. And you know what they wanted? Work; and that was what the People's Party returned to them. Mr Iglesias has said here today that the opposite must be done than in 2008, and the Socialist Party has applauded him. Of course, I remind you that from 2008 to 2012 you ruled. Of course we have to do something different than in 2008! That is why Pablo Casado offered you a plan to activate Spain that you ignored, because we want a free society that is not dependent on the state, and you want it dependent on your government, because it is you who want to get stronger out of this crisis. It is a serious agreement in substance and in forms, because putting the future of the work of the Spaniards in the hands of Bildu is an indecency that has frozen the hearts of the majority of the citizens; surely also of those who, in good faith, voted for the Socialist Party. Wanting to cover up the indignation that this has produced by blaming the People's Party and saying that they agree to save lives with those who justify murder is an exit 'level Simancas', which no longer surprises or hangs, because it is false and because this is surely the foreground of those other pacts with Bildu that we are already seeing. Stop playing people's bread with your trilera negotiations and stop making political use of people's pain. I insist, Minister, will you execute that agreement as it is signed? If so, your legacy as a minister will be counted in number of broken lives. The Spanish are making huge sacrifices and they do not deserve a government that adds more pain to the one that has caused the virus. Extend ERTEs and payments; treat businesses and self-employed, their liquidity, lower taxes. Listen to those we want and know how to help, because from this we do not come out stronger, we come out less; we go out with more unemployment, we go out weaker and poor; we go out with more professionals infected and - who was going to tell us - with less freedoms. Well, we're not out of this yet. Leave their hurtful political propaganda, which already leads them to the dead, and allow Spain, with the efforts of the Spaniards, to see the light again. And if you don't know how to do it or don't want to do it, please leave. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Angulo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Catalina. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u211	Thank you very much, Catalina; thank you, President. Good morning, or good afternoon already. The commitment, conviction and courage of this Government, yes, and those of the social actors as well, that with this royal decree-law take a step further on the path mapped out to guarantee income to the people who need it most, in the broadest possible way and for the necessary time and, in turn, to guarantee liquidity to relieve businesses and maintain employment, all to create a safety net where no one stays behind. This is precisely what this decree-law goes on, to continue to cushion the impact on employment and to accompany companies; a decree-law that assigns to the ERTE a new role to face the process of decontainment of the population and the recovery of economic activities and, at the same time, to provide preventive mechanisms to respond to the difficulties to the more particular sectors. The recovery of total or partial activity is encouraged by the transformation of ERTEs by force majeure into ERTEs for objective reasons; the reduction of working hours is enhanced; the prohibition of dismissal is renewed; different exemptions from contributions are fixed according to the type of ERTE; sections are articulated that encourage the return to activity, or, as the minister has already explained here, mechanisms are established to comply with the corporate social responsibility. Why is this social agreement important in defending employment? Because it deepens the strategic bet to protect the productive fabric and minimize the effects of job destruction through ERTE. Moreover, it is a politically and socially relevant decree for this country, as it is an expression of commitment by all parties to make a joint response to the crisis and its effects. It is also a significant decree, which incorporates the saint and sign of this Government: shared management, consensus, cooperation, co-government, dialogue and social concertation, which will have their maximum expression in the tripartite monitoring commission, consisting of CEOE-Cepyme, Commissions and UGT together with the Government, to offer security, trust and a complete solution to the labor ecosystem. So I have to thank all those organisations that are back at the table today, because the important thing is Spain, because the important thing is that we do it for employers and workers, and because the significant thing, therefore, is that we all put the common goal ahead of the rest. I'm sorry, it's important, significant and relevant to everyone less for the right side of this country, which I see very soliviant, perhaps because this was just the opposite of what you did with the unilateral reform of 2012, without social agreement. Maybe they're angry because they don't like this tool to avoid mass destruction of employment. I think you don't like it, because you've voted no. If it were for you, 500 000 companies in this country today would not have a treasury savings due to the exemption from social security contributions or the exemption from wages. It is that, if it were for you, almost 3 and a half million workers in this country would not be receiving a single euro in the form of ERTE. Of course they don't like it, because the right has another way of doing things. If you can choose between extinguishing a contract or suspending it, extinguishing it and leaving people on the street with one hand in front and another behind, exactly as they did a few years ago, when many unemployed people saw how, in the sixth month of recovery, their benefit went from 70 to 50 % and how social protection for unemployment fell to 50 %; today, growing: to 65 % in the last month. Always the same recipe, the People's Party always leaves the workers of this country, always. [[Rumors]] It did so in 2012, with labour reform destroying rights, reducing layoffs or devaluing wages; it did so a few months ago, when it opposed raising the interprofessional minimum wage. By the way - I remind you - it was a labor reform that not this group, but the Banco de España itself clarifies that it did not serve to create jobs but only to devalue wages. And another thing: do you also mind that we are becoming more and more parliamentary groups, more citizens, those who want to end the harmful measures for workers, such as sub-contracting with wages of misery or the possibility of a worker being fired for going to the doctor? Does that bother you? What's bothering you? Is this government setting an example that no one is going to change labour regulations without the agreement of trade unions or employers? Or do you think that we no longer deserve the workers of this country a new status that leaves behind their labour reform and thinks about how to regulate new realities such as telework, conciliation aid, or that this macabre system that last year generated 21 million temporary contracts, of which 13 million lasted less than three months? Do we not deserve in emptied Spain to take advantage of the opportunity of digitization with new forms of work? What do you mean we don't deserve it? Of course, we deserve to recover rights, rebuild consensus and generate new forms of relationship and employment benefit! Of course I do! That's why I see you guys are so upset these days and today. We already know that for you any step towards social justice is a mistake, a socio-communist danger of 'babavenezuela del norte'; but this is Spain, an advanced democracy, a serious country and a government that is committed to a social and democratic state of strong law, as reflected in our Constitution. So, gentlemen of the right, you will see on which side of history you want to be portrayed. I finish, President, and I am convinced that in a few months' time, videos with epic, heroic music will be made viral through our mobile phones, where images will appear of our health care providers, caregivers, supermarket workers, security guards, the State Security Forces and Corpses, children and elders who made an effort to stay at home, parents who teleworked and suffered conciliation; videos highlighting the great country we have and how powerful we are when we unite and move together. And I tell you one thing, there is an image that surely does not appear: that of the representatives of this irresponsible right. Because we have seen them flee, flee in a cowardly way through the back door, leaving behind the only tool capable of saving lives, because they have all seen them abandon their responsibility by sowing hatred, Mrs. Álvarez de Toledo, and because they have deserted their obligation to Spain and the Spanish. So, when those memes come, those videos, those montages, it's time to celebrate, gentlemen of VOX. That'll be the time. These past days there was nothing to celebrate or anything to be exultant about, out of respect for the families and friends of the thousands of people we've lost because of this damn virus; among them, my grandfather. May everyone rest in peace. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u212	Thank you, Mrs Peña. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, in advance of the vote, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Rule 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Marcos de Quinto Romero, I ask Don Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u214	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u215	Don Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u216	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 18/2020 of 12 May on social measures in defence of employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 48 plus 302 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 39 plus 256 telematics votes, 295; abstentions, 9 plus 46 telematics votes, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u217	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 48 plus 302 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 48 plus 302 telematics votes, 350.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-05-27-CD200527.u218	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The meeting rose. It was three and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
