ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u2	Mr. Sánchez, on July 5 - defeated the virus, according to your words - did a propaganda campaign and went on vacation. This same week they said that the situation was stable - their spokesman, that of the imaginary committee of experts, and their minister, the one who hides the security alerts - but yesterday you approved a state of alarm of six months, without parliamentary or judicial control, that overflows our rule of law. And the European. With its signature, the European Council sent a number of recommendations, as early as May, which said 'to come out of exceptionality and apply ordinary legislation', and the Venice Commission - also from the Council of Europe - this same month said the same thing about Hungary and Croatia. It has given you so much shame that you are not even here to validate it to the courts tomorrow and it endorses the responsibility of the pandemic to the autonomies, a responsibility that a law of the Socialist Party of 2011, the health law, exclusively mandates to you. Despite all this, the PP has not ceased to hold its shoulder at any time: it has supported the state of alarm when the figures were the worst in the world in contagion and died because of its negligent management; we have been putting forward an economic shock plan for eight months to avoid the ravages of the pandemic - like the 700,000 unemployed that yesterday the EPA unveiled and that its plan of ruinous budgets will only worsen - and we have offered it a health pact similar to the Toledo Pact, which we renewed yesterday. We have also been proposing a legal plan B for six months to be able to reform the Public Health Act in two months. Mr Sánchez, you are still in time to accept our proposal for an eight-week state of alarm; it is twice as much as almost all European countries are approving and would allow mobility to be limited on the three bridges and, above all, it would save Christmas; not only the employment associated with them, but also the hope of millions of Spaniards, especially the elderly who live without their families. Why don't you accept this proposal for this second wave of coronavirus, Mr. Sánchez? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Casado. You ask what the government is doing. The Government is doing its utmost to fight the virus with all its constitutional weapons. What we are doing is co-governing in cooperation with the Autonomous Communities, which are competent in the field of public health and health, offering them all the legal and material measures and resources to achieve it, with a single objective, Your Honor, to defend public health, to save lives, to save businesses and to save employment. What is the opposition doing? For there is an opposition that has chosen the path of dialogue, of support, even with constructive criticism. And I would like to thank your ladies and gentlemen, those parliamentary groups that have already voted in favour of the alarm decree. What are you doing, Your Honor, from the beginning of the pandemic? What they're doing is making mistakes after mistakes. You have denigrated a legitimate and effective constitutional instrument in the fight against the virus, which is the state of alarm. You came to qualify, Your Honor, the state of alarm as a constitutional dictatorship. Either it is dictatorship or it is constitutional, but both things are impossible, Mr. Married, and that is your responsibility not that of this Congress. [[Applauds]] In any case, the Government of Spain is for unity, and unity means listening and reaching out. I therefore make the following proposal for you to support this state of alarm. In four months' time, if the Inter-Territorial Policy Council - where the Ministry of Health and health advisers are represented - stipulates that the alarm is no longer necessary, the Government of Spain will review its decision and raise the state of alarm; in four months. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u6	And if the Inter-Territorial Policy Council says we have to continue for another two months, the Spanish Government will maintain this state of alarm until 9 May. [[Rumors]] Therefore, first revision on 9 March and second revision on 9 May. I believe that with that, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to find broad support for this state of alarm, which will be the most important tool to curb the virus's infection curve. [[the rumors continue]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u7	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u8	Mr Sánchez stumbles twice with the same stone, but instead of rectifying, being humble and letting himself be helped throw at everyone. Abandon radicalism, abandon the pacts with the extreme left. What he has to do is listen more to Felipe González and obey less to Mr Iglesias, less cesarism of order and command; he owes it to the million infected, to the 60 000 dead, to those who do not want any more bandages or more deceptions. My hand is still stretched out, the ball is still on your roof, yours is the responsibility, it won't be left for me, Mr. Sanchez. And what you have just done right now is to elude Parliament. Less Aló President on weekends and more come here, as stipulated by the Constitution, whenever he has to account for issues as relevant as a constitutional exceptionality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u10	He won't answer me, Mr. Married. [[Protests]] Do you or do you not agree that in four months' time the Inter-Territorial Policy Council will decide whether or not...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u12	...does the alarm state have to be lifted or not? Depending on what the Inter-Territorial Council decides, where all the autonomous communities are represented, the Government of Spain will decide whether or not to raise the state of alarm in March and, if not, until 9 May, Your Honor. There is the proposal and I hope you will accept it. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO ADOPTION TO GUARANTEE THE RIGHT TO A LIVE DIGNA TO THE ECONOMIC CRISIS THAT IS PRODUCING? [[File number 180/00341]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u13	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President. What measures does the Government intend to take to guarantee the right to decent housing during this present and especially future economic crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. We have approved a rather important battery of measures throughout the pandemic, for example the suspension of discharge procedures and mortgage moratoriums, the extension of leases that end in the pandemic period, the 50% reduction in the moratorium of up to four months when the lessor is a public entity or a large holder and in addition the specific aid from the COVID of the State Plan 2018-2021 rental programme and a guarantee line with state guarantee of EUR 1200 million. We have also established a State system of reference rates for the rental price of housing to ensure the transparency of the rental market. This index is the result of the analysis of more than 11.2 million properties that have been rented as usual housing from tax sources. And yesterday the coalition government also agreed to regulate the containment of rental rents in the Housing Act, which we will take over the next few months to the Council of Ministers and, consequently, to its parliamentary handling in this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u17	Mr. Ruffian Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, Mr Vice-President too, while half of this Chamber was in the IBEX 35 bottle with Pedro J., this was happening. [[Show a picture]] This was happening. This is an eviction in Carabanchel yesterday; yesterday. There are four kids with their mother, the furniture, in Carabanchel. We don't care where, it's happening in practically every city in this country. While we tell people to stay at home, we kick her out of her house. There are already over 11,000 evictions from January to June this year. There'll be a lot more when the year's over. That's why we asked him for two things. The first has already announced it, but we ask you to strike even more, not to take it to the Constitutional Court - let that be done by the right, that only patriots will do it with flags on the bracelet - the Catalan Rent Limitation Act. Seventy per cent of evictions in this country today are for rent. The second is to change the Civil Prosecution Act so that despondent judges stop playing Russian roulette, dice, with families like this one. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I know you're concerned, I ask you to take care of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. Let us see, not only are we concerned, but we are concerned, because one of the measures we adopted at the beginning of the pandemic was the suspension of eviction procedures or mortgage debt moratoriums, but I will also tell you that what we really want is to do the first housing law of democracy, and let me also detail some of its contents. It will enable the autonomous communities and the municipalities to establish a price index based on the developed housing rental price reference index system in accordance with an objective methodology and subject to periodic review, and will validate the progress of those autonomous communities that have defined a rental price reference system. And what are these mechanisms going to be, Your Honor? These mechanisms will be that in the tensioned market areas, determined by reference index systems, mechanisms will be established to contain or possibly lower prices, both for new and existing contracts. And in any case, and in relation to the information obtained by rental price index systems, the unjustified increases in new leases will be contained, taking as a reference the price of the previous lease contract and reducing the permitted increases to the situations contained in the housing law. Your Honor, I believe that we are facing a necessary, socially important debate and of course this government is not going to evade its responsibility. We are going in this legislature, I hope together, to adopt the first housing law of Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ARE THE CRITERIA FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE EUROPEAN FUNDS? [[File number 180/00354]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u21	Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, we have been up in Catalonia with a new wave of arrests, I do not know whether this is your concept of de-judicialisation of politics or a new form of dialogue. In any case, we asked you about the European funds because the aid plan was already agreed on last July and President Von der Leyen called for real co-management and co-governance. We hope so, but we have serious doubts about this, given the Spanish credentials. We believe that the European funds would have to be distributed with competitive, transparent and opportune criteria, which respond to strategic projects and which do not go as before and are wasted on projects of little added value, as the Independent Tax Accountability Authority did three months ago, urging them to review public spending on transport infrastructure and detecting, for example, an excess of investment in unprofitable high-speed networks, without passengers and which do not reduce territorial inequalities, among other cases. One of the main conclusions of the AIReF is that Spain lacks a general regulatory framework that governs project planning and reveals serious deficiencies in the evaluation. For this reason, we demand the direct relationship of the Generalitat de Catalunya with the European Commission, as is the case in the management of other funds; full use of resources to finance specific projects, not for current expenditure; that the principle of financial sustainability be one of the guiding principles in the selection of projects and that SMEs be included in that selection. However, we want to know what the criteria for distributing these funds will be.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u23	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Borràs, I've tried to understand everything you've said. I am sorry if at some of the moments in your speech I have not been able to hear it, but it is a question of acoustics. I must say that, indeed, for us, the funds for recovery, reconstruction and resilience are not at all funds for the pimpampum between different administrations, they have to be precisely the opposite, they have to be for collaboration, for cooperation and for co-governance. Yesterday, precisely because of the competitive distribution that we maintain thanks to Title VIII of our Constitution, I said that 50% of these funds, of that EUR 140 billion over the next six years, will be managed directly by the autonomous communities, and I am sure that we will do so efficiently. You have pointed out three objectives that I can fully share. The first, competitiveness; the second, transparency and the third, opportunity. That's where the Government of Spain is walking. Sometimes we try to misrepresent the funds. Within this large recovery fund of EUR 140 billion, there is a fund, the European Union-React Fund, which has parameters, indicators and a way of being managed very similar to that of the Structural Funds and known to the Autonomous Communities. The other fund, the Resilience Fund, is new and is not based on territorial criteria, but rather on national criteria, with the European Union's stated objective that there must be even transnational projects, not projects within a country. Such synergies must therefore be sought with other economies, with other Member States. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, consider whether we take into account the territorial impact that one of the vertebrating elements of the Recovery Fund is cohesion, and not only social cohesion, but also territorial cohesion. These funds have to serve our country to converge from a territorial point of view and not to widen the large differences that can be aggravated as a result of this crisis, unlike what unfortunately happened in the 2008 financial crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u25	Mrs. Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u26	I didn't hear him very well either. It must be a thing of acoustics. I have started talking about repression, but I like to know that you think that European funds should be based on the criteria of competitiveness and transparency. This should be the case for maximizing the expansionary effects of GDP. Because, do you know what's going on? That when Spain assigns to the finger, Catalans always have to receive the worst part, but when the playing field is competitive, we get great results. Catalonia has 8900 multinationals and 650 000 small businesses. Large companies will present projects, but we argue that SMEs must also participate in these funds. It will be an opportunity to rebuild, modernize and enhance our network of scientific and technological facilities. Stop centralism, which is what worries us - for you it is the great solution to problems - and accept the challenge of being as efficient as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u27	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Borràs, simply a fact so that we can see, in fact, what has been the action of the Spanish Government in Catalonia. As regards the anti-COVID measures, during this year, in 2020, EUR 1246.5 million, i.e. 20.77% of the total health fund, and EUR 337.4 million, i.e. 16% of the educational fund. In both cases it is the second most received community from the Government of Spain to deal with this economic, social and health emergency. [[Applauds]] Is that what you're talking about? OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT OPINION DOES THE PRESIDENT DESERVE THE SEPARATION OF POWERS? [[File number 180/00348]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u29	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruíz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, in May you promised in the Senate a legal reform to avoid the constitutional exceptionality of the state of alarm in the face of a second wave of the pandemic. Where is he? They left by summer, the rebounds arrived, but their promise did not. However, they have the People's Party's legal plan B ready to be dealt with by this House, a reform of the Organic Law of 1986 that allows us to protect the Spaniards without resorting to the state of alarm. Why don't you take it? A state of alarm that has blown up all the alarms: more than six months and without parliamentary control. Why do they not accept the sensible and responsible proposal to reduce it and that we control them - this House and not the health advisers, as the President of the Government has just proposed to us -? We come to Congress because we think it's healthy to be accountable every fortnight. Guess whose date this is? From Mr. Sánchez, April 28th. I hope, Mr Sánchez, that tomorrow you will come to this House, because you are getting used to ruling by decree. They're gonna pulverize the mark of an entire legislature in just a year. Thirty-one royal decree-laws have been passed and, yes, they have paralysed half of them in this House. It's called a roller. Mrs. Calvo, your eagerness to colonize the institutions frowns on authoritarian pathology. What does the Government mean by separation of powers? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, the government does not have to understand anything special, it is what our Constitution says, that each of the three political powers of the state does not move from the competences it has attributed. It's just what this government does. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u33	Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u34	If power cannot be abused, power must stop power. Your Honor, it's Montesquieu. We know that it produces hives; it is just what the government does not do, which it legislates from the executive, without control of Parliament or the judiciary. That's right, controlling the judges. That's his pretense. The last example: General Council of the Judiciary. After the European slap, which was heard even in Warsaw, it is time to shield the independence of the judges. They haven't stopped the reform, keep going. The clock's still running. They have to stop her. Stop her. Otherwise, you are attacking the independence of the judiciary. Take her off and then we'll talk. Your Honor, the terms of the dilemma are very clear: assault on the heavens with Podemos or rule of law with separation of powers and the People's Party. What do you choose? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u36	Mrs Gamarra, being a militant of the political party that you are, you had the opportunity to talk about this matter of the division of powers in another way, but you have not. Look, you are the party that had to come under the control of this House after seven months without doing so because it was requested by the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] They know that; seven months without coming to this House because they considered that in office they did not report to the seat of popular sovereignty of all Spaniards. You are the party you have said by a senator who controls the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court from behind; you, as a political party. Do you understand, Mrs. Gamarra? [[Applauds]] He had a chance today to talk about this matter in another way, but he didn't want to. You, as a parliamentary group, have unwarrantedly blocked the formation of the General Council of the Judiciary. Of this matter, Mrs Gamarra, the important thing is the big question, which is at the beginning of the chain of everything else that has happened: why don't you do it? Why not renew the General Council of the Judiciary? Because the answers they give are neither understandable nor acceptable. We have every right in the world to think anything about you not doing that. And that's not respecting the judiciary, do you understand, Mrs. Gamarra? Respecting the judiciary means forming its governing body. Respect for this House means being the government that has been under control in forty-one years more than none. Go to the records of this House to check it out. Do you understand, Mrs. Gamarra? We are certainly the most under control in a comparison across Europe. That is respect for this House. [[Applauds]] But I'll add something else because there's one topic I care about a lot and you've taken it out. You want a comprehensive reform of health legislation to weaken judicial control of guarantees of fundamental rights and public freedoms, and this progressive government is not going to consent to it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u37	Thank you very much, Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: IS THE GOVERNMENT PROPOSED to censor the arguments of the opposition? [[File number 180/00344]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u38	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, in the past week we have witnessed two very worrying initiatives on the part of this Government. On the one hand, the PSOE, the old Socialist Party that in its day represented millions of honest Spanish workers, has subscribed to the manifesto of the ten evils against VOX, a pact in which you revalidate your alliance with communists, separatists, coups and, even more serious, Bildu's terrorists. And once you sign that manifesto, you settle in that any opposition to this Government is a speech of hatred. That is why this Monday they have adopted a rule in this Parliament to be able to intervene in social networks and censor any expression of opposition to this government; that is, under the excuse of hate speech. Is the government proposing to censor the opposition's speech? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you do not have a single objective data from this government of any claim to censure any group in this House, especially when last week your group had fourteen hours of continuous criticism of the government - they were in their right - and here we were giving them answers as best we could and knew. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u42	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u43	Thank you very much. Indeed, perhaps I should have nuanced the question. Do you intend to silence the only remaining opposition party? Because you have already managed to tame the other party that was left with so much applause and congratulations from Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias and all the journalists of that consensus that you have managed to generate. You have already managed to get closer to your land, you have already here begging for some kind of agreement with you. You have already approved them, you have already given them the card of democrats, so you are all happy, and in gratitude they celebrate it with you at big parties until high hours as you laugh at the Spaniards you leave confined and those who threaten with all kinds of sanctions if you behave like you. Look, now that you have already managed to get all but one of the parties in this House on your side, it will seem to you that it is easier to silence the remaining opposition. But I will tell you one thing, it will not be so easy, because we are alone in this House, yes, but only with millions of Spaniards, only with millions of Spaniards who every day in the squares of their villages, in the empty streets of their closed industrial polygons, in the center of their cities will protest with us and will exercise opposition. You won't be able to shut us up, and if you think we're left alone, you're very wrong, because it's not that VOX stays alone, it's that there's only VOX left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u44	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I'm not going to be the one to tell you how you have to finish interpreting psychologically what happened to you last week here, that's your business. But, look, you can't become here today, with the question you have asked me, the maximum defenders of the purity of democracy when you say that the governments of the Franco dictatorship were better than those of democracy; no, because it will be very difficult for the Democrats of this country to understand you in all corners and in all the squares of Spain. Do you understand? But, look, you have used the word censorship without any reason and without any basis in this question to this Government, as I have just said in my first reply. Censorship you do know, ask the media to censor their work as a political party, bound to constitutional values. You will never find an apex of reproach in the freedoms that you use in the dialectic field of political battle, but do not invent lies. By the way, to help the purity of democracy support the initiative in this House to fight against lies and misinformation, because that is the ground in which you play politics, that is the ground in which you are manifestly irresponsible about the maturity and stability of this democracy. That was the truth behind his question and not the censorship of this government, which does not exist, last week it was seen by all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE SECOND Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS DO AND AGENDA 2030 OF HIS TEN MONTHS OF GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00349]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u46	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the Government, democracy is not a bazaar, it is not a bargain. You propose a six-month alarm and replace Parliament for decisions to be taken by the health advisers of the Autonomous Communities, a body in which the Socialist Party has a majority. Directly, Mr Sánchez, remove the complexes, let Ferraz make the decisions directly. In fifteen days they put Pablo Iglesias in the CNI, and in six months without parliamentary control what are they going to do, Mr Sánchez? If you delegate your powers to the autonomous communities and those of Parliament to the interterritorial council, what is it for? Get out of here and we'll be done first. The Budgets Act is the most important of the year and you are going to process it in fifteen days. Can you explain to me why you do not pick up Pablo Casado's extended hand and in fifteen days we process a law of pandemics that protects the health of the Spaniards? There are 1,200 000 families with all their members unemployed. We are leaders in youth unemployment. There are thousands of people who do not earn the minimum living income. Mr. Iglesias, apart from these achievements, what is the balance of these ten months? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u48	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the balance sheet I'm making is positive. We are not perfect and there are things that we can improve, but, of course, I think we have shown that this government responds to the social consequences of the crisis in a much more decent and constitutionally-adjusted way, if we compare it with the way you responded to the 2008 financial crisis. Allow me to return the question. What balance do you make of these ten months of competition with VOX to see who leads the opposition? Do you think it's been good for your party and good for Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u50	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u51	Not only do they not want to vote for the state of alarm, but they also want to control the opposition. Unbelievable! During this week, Mr. Iglesias, I have been able to get to know you a little better and I have drawn three conclusions: the first is that you are comfortable being privileged; you are not Pepe Mujica, in fact, more like a Russian tsar than Pepe Mujica. Because while you add rotating doors, advisors and official cars; the Spaniards count victims, infected and unemployed. This first conclusion leads me to the second because comfort in privilege leads us to hypocrisy. You have lied to everyone, but do not deceive anyone; in fact, the judges investigate you for lying. There is something that you and I know: if you were me, today I would ask for my resignation, and that is called hypocrisy. And the third conclusion is that you don't care about people because when I tell you here that thousands of women have had to go into unemployment for their policies, you're annoyed; when I tell you that there are thousands of people who don't charge the minimum living income, you're annoyed; and when I tell you that there are self-employed people who are on the loose for their harmful policies, you're annoyed. And you know why? Because privileged people are bothered by people's real problems. But all this is not his fault, it is Mr. Sánchez's fault; he appointed him, he keeps him and he defends him from his judicial scandals. And it's not that you're not going to leave anyone behind, it's that as you two and your entire government continue to rule, no one will stand. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u52	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you just said that with us ruling there will be no one left standing. I'm going to read you something: The People's Party does not want to be another party of fear, anger, grudge and revenge, insult and anger, or manipulation, lies or fascist involution. Pablo married said that last week. Listening to you now gives the impression that your moderate speech has lasted less than the militia of Mr Abascal, Mr Teodoro. [[Applauds]] But do you know what your problem is? Their problem is they're locked up with VOX. Your last speech reveals that you continue to compete not only in style and in a dynamic in which you are dedicated to competing for who says the most barbarity or who uses the least polite and most unpleasant tone with respect to the government, but also that you are structurally trapped because if you rule in some autonomous communities and in some very important municipalities it is by these gentlemen. You depend on them. Therefore, Mr. Married's supposed moderate speech remains in nothing when you have to compete again with the ultra-right. Ladies and gentlemen, you are trapped because with an extremely irresponsible ultra-nationalist speech you gave wings to the far right, and today that far right is devouring you and Citizens. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD VICESIDENT SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT OPINION DOES THE CALL 'MANIFIEST FOR DEMOCRACY' DEVELOP? [[File number 180/00345]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u54	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u55	Thank you, President. I take it the question is reproduced.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u56	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u57	Thank you very much for your question, Your Honor. My view of the manifesto is positive. I think it reveals that you are a glue to a democratic and plural majority that made possible the investiture, which is called, after negotiation, to make budgets possible and, also, to a state leadership in a reformist and democratic sense. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u58	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u59	Thank you, President. On 21 October, in the middle of the debate on VOX's motion of censure, ten parliamentary groups signed a compromise in this House under the title 'Manifesto for Democracy'. [[Show a document]] Bearing in mind that the signatories include EH Bildu's florets, the radical anti-systems of the CUP or the extreme left of Podemos, we can come up with an idea of what kind of democracy is being claimed. What was the commitment of those 193 Members of Parliament who made up these ten groups? To prosecute and punish those Members who, in their view, are incompatible with our democracy and pose a danger to coexistence. It is those Members who are threatened and those who are trying to censor, as they are now trying to censor social networks, under penalty of punishment. This is so, and with this document what you are saying is that you are going to distribute the democratic right card and the dissident that you do not accept what you are going to do is punish him. Mr Sánchez, of those 193 signatories 120 are yours and that really simplifies the issue a lot, means that it will be the Socialist Party that will distribute the right-wing democratic card. Given how Mr. Married was applauded last week by both the Socialist Party and Podemos, we can get an idea of what is the only right that is acceptable to you: that submissive, complacent, contemplative right, that right beaten by corruption like you. By the way, Mrs Lastra - I am making a parenthesis here - where is your attack of dignity and those haste to form the commission of inquiry of Operation Kitchen, what has happened so that it is now paralysing it. Do I ask you or do I ask the popular? That right, in short, which, like you, has become real agencies of placement today. In this manifest lacks a signature and is that of the popular because truly the no to the motion of censure was a no to the existence of VOX. Yesterday, we were able to see how they themselves have added to the stigmatization of our voters by calling us extreme right in this Chamber. How can they have this little shame!; before our appearance the fascists were you to the left and now we are VOX because we are the only opposition... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u61	And the Spaniards have it very clear, as they are equally clear that we would not share a blanket or a round bed in luxurious dinners organized by the media, without masks, without distances of security, infringing the limited means, infringing the curfew and letting the restrictions be for the Spaniards. This is no longer the Congress of the Mouse, this is the Congress of Seals. Keep clapping like seals, ladies and gentlemen, that we will act as a containment dam. [[Rumours.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u62	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u63	Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I've seen a lot of things in my life, but a deputy applauding herself, that I've never seen before. [[Applauds]] Let's be clear. The manifesto in defence of democracy is a health cordon in front of the far right, in front of you, which is linked to European democratic traditions. Do you know who has a real problem with that manifesto? The People's and Citizens' Party which, unlike conservative and liberal traditions in Europe, are obliged to continue to rule and compete with the ultra-right. And that is a problem for democracy in Spain, because it is a problem that there are two political formations that are obliged to govern with you and that are obliged to compete with you. This tension, which is perceived among your ladies and gentlemen despite the fact that you have governments in Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia, reveals an enormously interesting opportunity; an opportunity for the Democrats of this diverse country, which is called Spain - and of which you have almost half of the country - to undertake the necessary reforms to face a new transition that will make a better country. This manifesto reveals another element; although VOX allies are dressed in silk, VOX allies remain. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carolina SPAIN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHAT SUBJECTS OF TAXES HAVE BEEN DISCOVERED IN THE BUDGETARY PLAN SENT TO BRUSSELS? [[File number 180/00350]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u66	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question from the representative of Carolina Spain Queen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u67	I take it the question is reproduced.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u68	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u69	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I believe that yesterday you had the opportunity to know what fiscal forecasts this government has for the 2021 budget. In any case, when we deliver today the draft budgets in this House, in the course of the morning, we will also have the opportunity to explain in technical terms what are the very important contents of public accounts that are essential for the transformation of our country. I hope you support them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u70	Mrs. Spain Queen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u71	Minister, yes, we already have budgets, congratulations; the largest public debt in history and massive rise in taxes; that is, the only country in Europe to raise taxes. Are you proud of the communist contagion? It's a serious mistake in the middle of the crisis. Who believes that income? GDP in decline, 100,000 fewer companies and you budget historical record of collection. That's called inflating revenue; government budgets of lying. Look, all tax figures, income, wealth, corporations, diesel, insurance, Google tax go up, and they say the rich are going to pay it. But who are the rich, minister, the 17 million Spaniards who have a diesel vehicle, the autonomous one who has a delivery van, the one who has a tractor in the field that is also diesel, those who have pension plans, those who have a home insurance, a vehicle insurance? Are those the rich, Minister, are those the rich? The rich will pay 10% of the increase and the rest, middle and working classes, families, SMEs and self-employed. The government of lies. Aren't the rich their fellow ministers, who have companies interposed to pay no taxes? [[Rumors]] We already know why communist partners want to raise taxes, because they don't pay them; Currency, Echenique. By the way, when are you going to lower the tax on the masks, when the pandemic is over? What a shame! and on top of it they blame Europe; it is that they lie even in that. VAT should also be reduced to tourism, as has been done by the United Kingdom and Germany, and you here have voted against it. Germany, France and Italy have made selective tax cuts, and here the greatest fiscal pressure will put recovery and employment at risk. It is that we have already allocated six months of work to pay taxes, some points more than the OECD. Does that seem to you little, Minister? Lower your expenses before you raise your taxes. They wanted to raise the salaries of the Members and we had to stop them. Help yourselves with the belt, as all Spaniards do, that we have the most expensive and inefficient government in history; yes, inefficient. According to yesterday's EPA, 355,000 more unemployed in the middle of the summer. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is in the ICU and raising taxes is to take away her assisted breathing. You're irresponsible, and I hope that Mr. Sánchez will come here tomorrow to give his face, because more taxes and six months of alarm is the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u72	Thank you very much, Queen Spain. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Spain, this House does not deserve the speech just made by the People's Party of Bat Burrillo, without arguments and without any proposals to be able to contribute to the recovery of Spain. [[Applauds]] Where is Mr. Married's spirit of the motion of censure? Madam Spain, you have made Mrs Olona's speech, we have just heard it from all the Members; there is no difference between trying to discredit the public authorities - you have made a review by all the public authorities - and government action, but let us look at what you are doing. Mrs. Spain, do you call this massive tax hike? What do you call then what Mr Montoro did with the first budget they set up and with which up to sixty times the taxes went up? Do you know how much? [[Applauds]] You have raised taxes of 23 billion euros, affecting the middle class and the working class. They cut public services worth EUR 10 billion by weakening health, which is so necessary for this pandemic, and also weakening education... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u74	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u75	You made a fiscal amnesty, which was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, forgiving the debts to all those who had defrauded the Treasury. That is the response of the People's Party to crisis situations. Therefore, Madam Spain, this Executive is very proud to present countercyclical, clearly expansive public accounts that contribute to economic growth, job creation, the revitalization of public services; in short, to protect the general interest so that everyone, at least in health, education, social services and employment opportunities, is equal. This is the DNA of this executive; we know perfectly well which is that of the People's Party, which left a gap of inequality, the largest in Europe, with the management of the previous crisis. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] - of Mr Albert Butran PAHISSA, in replacement of Mrs Mireia Vehi Cantenys, of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Minister of State: Will the Government's fiscal policy become more progressive before the emergence of needs with the new state of alarm? [[File number 180/00353]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u76	Question by Mr Albert Botran Pahissa, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u77	Minister, this week it became effective that the pandemic goes long and therefore its impact on the economy as well. We know some of your tax measures, but our question is: Is this how far the so-called progressive tax government is going to go?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u78	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u79	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, I believe that over the last few days, particularly yesterday, when we presented the preliminary draft budget for this country, we moved that, in view of the economic situation resulting from the pandemic situation, we had to go along with the programme agreement on in-depth tax review of our tax system in order to make it compatible with economic growth, job creation and equal opportunities. We have therefore presented at this time a series of fiscal adjustment measures, which will allow us to incorporate more resources into our taxation in order to shield public services for citizens. Likewise, we will incorporate a very important annuality of European funds, which will boost economic growth and recovery in our country by activating the major transformative levers. I also say to you, Your Honor, that I also announced the creation of an expert group to carry out an in-depth review of our tax system in order to gain progressivity so that everyone contributes according to their capacity and we all receive according to our needs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u80	Mr. Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u81	Minister, setting up a commission is usually synonymous with dilating a question so as not to make decisions at critical times like the one we are now. We have the feeling that the budgets that bring us base investment in social policies on European funds and what these social policies need is fair taxation. The proposal is far below what is needed at the moment. Do you remember the motto that we are 99% and we are against the concentration of economic and political power of 1%? The tax measures proposed to us and which have been leaking over taxation in the budgets do not even affect this 1%. Many of the people with whom you, Citizens and the People's Party coincided at this already famous dinner last Monday, probably not even be affected by this taxation of the budgets of the PSOE government and We Can. The increase in the IRPF, for example, affects 0.17 of taxpayers, far from this 1 %, and the increase in the capital tax affects 0.1 % of taxpayers. The Tobin and Google rates are proposals that were already coming from 2019 by the PSOE, and the proposed reform of the corporation tax was also already present in the budgets that you agreed with Podemos in 2019 and that you did not get approved, which could even be down because you have heard about the deduction in the corporation tax, but you have not heard about the minimum rate of 15%. I don't know if these are gonna be new. I insist, are measures that remain far from necessary, far from the proposal that you held with United We can work within the framework of the Commission for Reconstruction, which affected more taxpayers - that tax on wealth affected 0.5% of taxpayers and was calculated to collect about 98 billion -, or far from the proposal that has made our political force of the UPC, such as the COVID rate to tax fortunes greater than a million euros or companies that have net profits greater than five million euros or even companies that are having extraordinary profits...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. There have been two consecutive questions in the House, one referring to the preliminary draft budget as a massive rise in taxes and you call it an unambitious rise. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are at the point of balance we were looking for because, indeed, the criticisms on the one hand and on the other are directed to the contrary. I wonder one thing, Mr Botran, if the budgets that we bring to this House respect the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, provide a greater volume of resources for the autonomous community, you, who are a Catalan party, what are you going to do? Are you going to vote in favour of this draft budget or are you going to see the opportunity pass for Catalonia to make a bid so that it can grow, so that it can have the scope of recovery that it had at the beginning of the crisis, so that there will be more opportunities for young Catalans, so that we have the opportunity to project infrastructures, so that the minimum living income reaches those people who are vulnerable, to strengthen health, education, vocational training, large tractor projects that allow Catalonia to regain its growth quotas again? Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, are you going to remain in a situation of being against everything or, for once, are you going to abide by reasons, are you going to agree on this budget and are you going to allow Catalonia to continue to grow? That's the question, Your Honor. We're waiting for your answer. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES YOU CONSIDER THAT HUMAN RIGHTS CAN BE TALKED TO ETA POLITICAL HERITERS? [[File number 180/00346]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u84	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, can we talk about human rights with the political heirs of ETA?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u86	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I believe that we can not only talk about human rights with the whole world, even with you, with the extreme right, to convey democratic principles such as respect for plurality, freedom and equality to you; we must try to convey to you once the fact of violence against women, macho violence, is a human rights issue because women are raped simply on the basis of gender. [[applause]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u88	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Whatever you say, it is vomiting to give Bildu credit in the field of human rights, and you have done so again by signing with them this manifest waste, which is a veritable pamphlet of hatred against millions of Spaniards who intend to settle civilly for not praying to the dictates of the left. [[shows a document]] You got a bigger nerve? The government again laundering ETA's political heirs to beg for their support, a support stained with the blood of the age-old crimes that Bildu continues to condemn while organizing tributes to the murderers who go out of prison, and you consent; an insult to the victims and to national dignity. But look, neither the threats of this pamphlet nor any other consideration will enchant us; neither VOX nor millions of Spaniards will shut up, millions of Spaniards fed up with this useless, miserable, sectarian and unworthy government. Minister of the Interior, we are not going to give up, we are not going to do what someone else did last week to receive your hypocritical applause; a shameful and also unworthy surrender. We are here to defend clear principles at the service of Spain and the Spaniards and nothing or anyone is going to take us away from that mission, because we are not afraid of the government's clumsiness and its sneezings or the miserable insults of others. [[rumors]] Take it for sure, both of you, because the Spanish people have known it for a long time, starting with those who are going through the worst, starting with those you have betrayed, those who know enough that VOX is today their only hope in the face of the corrupt voice of official Spain that you all represent. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u90	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Again, I hear from you stories that he formulates constructed in lies, in falsehood, in conspiracy theories and above all negationism. You deny that the rule of law defeated and defeated ETA. But I will remind you of three sentences - I open quotes -: 'To take possession of a seat is always preferable to holding arms' - I follow -; 'the process of normalization corresponds first to the institutions and to all the Basque political forces, without any exception' - I follow -; 'the Government and I personally have authorized contacts with the environment of the Basque Liberation Movement'. José María Aznar, 1998. Do you know what the Interior Spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group was called in this House at the time? Ignacio Gil Lazarus. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u92	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u93	Do you know how many times Mr. Gil Lázaro addressed the government presided over by Aznar accusing him of treason to the victims, to the unity of Spain or to the Constitution? None. [[Applauds]] Do you know how many times you demanded firmness from the government against the political arm of the then ETA? Zero. I invite you to moderate yourself, to document yourself, to abandon the infamy. I invite you to do all that and, also, to better prepare these interventions and to respect the rule of law. Finally, speaking of democratic values, do not be patriots of bracelets, be patriots of democratic values. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE PEDRO NAVARRO LOPE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY DIALOGUE AND AGREEMENT IN A EDUCATIONAL REFORM? [[File number 180/00352]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u94	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mr Pedro Navarro López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Celaá, Minister, do you believe that the Spaniards will understand, in the second state of alarm, another law of education more without consensus and, for the first time in history, without dialogue with the educational community? You took advantage of the first state of alarm to present your reform. While teachers, parents and children worked from home without rest, you changed the law without consensus, and that's obviously not random. His is an ideological, non-pedagogical counter-reform, which attacks individual freedom, freedom of choice for concerted school and special education, and which, moreover, flees from dialogue with experts, just as the President of the Government flees from parliamentary control, to which we once again demand that he come tomorrow to face. Minister, if your bill is so good, why don't you want to listen to anyone? Simply because his law does not like anyone, neither the centers nor the teachers nor the families, who have already announced mobilizations on the street. Because they don't like UGT or the Workers' Commissions, they have criticized it for taking measures that affect special, especially vulnerable, collective education without any kind of negotiation. Mrs Celaá, what do you mean by dialogue and agreement if you refuse to open the doors of this Parliament to the educational community? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u96	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Navarro, facts. This is what this minister means by dialogue: to convene the General Council of Vocational Training, after seven years of abandonment by its government; to convene the Observatory of Scholarships and Aids, with results for the improvement of scholarships. This is dialogue. Calling even to the table of concerted education, it is also dialogue. Or hold seven sectoral conferences, eight general commissions, six vocational training conferences and two staff conferences. That's dialogue. And dialogue, Your Honor, is the one that has consequences, that is dialogue. In addition to everything we have been doing in public consultations, public hearing; in addition to meeting there are forty-eight civil society and educational community organizations, with the consequences of amendments to the bill. That's dialogue. Facts, Your Honor, not words. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u98	Mr. Navarro López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, because you don't like it you don't like your own: We can have 54 amendments and the Socialist Party over 100. There were 1168 amendments to the bill, when the last of the People's Party had 770 amendments. Today we want to talk to you about substance and form, of course. Just as we are not against the state of alarm, but that the President of the Government has six months in length and does as he pleases, we demand parliamentary proportionality and control, and you respect and sensitivity with civil society. We know that, of course, humility cannot be asked of him. The fund is already going to be dealt with by the prosecutor's office, which is investigating its general approval for possible prevarication. We ask you to take care of the form, with the Lomce attended up to fifty collectives here, Mrs. Celaá. This is where civil society has to appear. Why are you so afraid of Parliament, which is where we have an obligation to listen to civil society? The only secretive one here, Mrs. Celaá, is you. This will not be remembered as the law Celaá, it will be remembered as the decree Celaá. We don't want the People's Party to feed fractures, we want to close them, we want to unite, and that's why we have to listen to people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u100	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u101	Do you know what dialogue is, Mr. Navarro? No dialogue is the intervention you have just made here. [[Applauds]] No dialogue is simply to announce an amendment in full minutes after having registered the bill in this House and without having read it. No dialogue is to put forward an amendment to the whole that has nothing to do with the content. No dialogue is precisely to raise a greater alarm in the educational community and in the citizen community, in families, in the midst of a pandemic with issues that are completely contrary to the law. That's no dialogue, Your Honor. And no dialogue is that at this stage of processing, when possible compromise amendments are proposed to your group, you do not accept them, even if you are aware that there is agreement in substance a very long time ago. [[Mr Navarro López makes negative gestures]] That's not dialogue. [[Applauds]] But I will tell you that, with that non-dialogue, you constantly ask and demand with one word the educational pact to make it immediately impossible. But this coincides with your history because, look, I will tell you one thing: all the socialist amendments have been backed up by other political forces, by the rest of the political forces of the House at any historical moment that has been; of yours, none. That is, that history once again demonstrates with facts that the dialogue comes from the Socialist Party and those who accompany it and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: WHY HAS THE GOVERNMENT NOT DEFENDED IN THE EUROPEAN NEGOTIATION OF THE CAP A POSITION FOR DIFFERENT AGRICULTURAL STRATEGIC PLANS IN ANY MEMBER STATE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00343]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u103	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u104	Thank you, Madam President. The European Council reached agreement on the CAP reform package and, although we share the strategic objectives of this new CAP, the subsidiarity model has not been extended to regions with competitive autonomy and fiscal autonomy, as is the case with Euskadi, thus preventing the elaboration of a strategic plan of its own. Why has the government not advocated in the European negotiation a position in favour of different agricultural strategic plans in each Member State?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u105	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Agirretxea, as you know, the common agricultural policy has as its fundamental objective the support for the income and business profitability of agricultural and livestock farms in family and professional farming. This new CAP has two major developments. First, the emphasis on environmental support, the European Union's Green Pact to combat climate change and the preservation of the environment, water, air, soil, biodiversity and landscape. And the second great novelty is the national strategic plans. Article 91 of the draft regulation which we adopted last week in Luxembourg states that each Member State shall submit a national strategic plan to the European Commission. This is perfectly in line with what the Commission has proposed and, of course, is what the Spanish Government is going to do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u107	Mr. Agirretxea Urresti.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u108	Thank you. Minister, I have already told you that we share almost all the general criteria, but you know that from Euskadi and from this parliamentary group there has always been a call for full subsidiarity in the definition, elaboration, defence and implementation of all the measures of this CAP. And you know that Euskadi has full competence in all matters covered by the CAP strategic plan, and political will to exercise it, so it is regrettable that from the Government of Spain, in a State in which all self-governments have full competence in agricultural matters, and in the case of Euskadi, as I have said, also in fiscal matters, at no time, despite the existing competition law, has it defended this possibility before the Commission. Don't you think not to defend it is not to defend the competitive model? The national plan brings together totally heterogeneous social productive structures, so that the current agreement does not allow Euskadi or other autonomous communities to apply an adaptation of CAP aid to the structural and productive reality of each of the communities. Since all this is so, why has the ministry not defended before the European Commission an approach that allows the CAP to be adapted to the different realities of the state, a position consistent with the structural and competitive framework of the state? Does the Government therefore share the need to adapt the aid to the different structural and productive realities? Does the Government consider that having a single strategic plan for the CAP is the best way to adapt aid to the different structural and productive realities of the Spanish State? In any case, you know that certain amendments have also been adopted in the European Parliament, which specifically allow in some way for strategic plans to be drawn up by the Member States in accordance with the institutional legal framework of each country. That will therefore be the true will of each Government to implement these measures and your interpretation of them. Are you going to do it? Are you going to take into consideration each specificity or are you going to shield yourself in a...?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u110	Thank you very much. In July, 21 July, a magnificent financial result was achieved, with EUR 47 724 million in support of our agriculture and livestock. Last week we also achieved a good agreement in Luxembourg, in a balance between income and also the environmental objectives of the new CAP, and now we have the third challenge, which is to achieve - and we have a great opportunity - a good CAP for Spain and a good implementation. We have been working on this with the seventeen autonomous communities, in full respect of the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy, in the common definition of what is the analysis and interventions under the first pillar, and also in the full management of everything under the second pillar of rural development. All of this is an effective instrument, I believe, to make our farmers and farmers better placed to meet the challenges we face in this decade. And I am convinced that you and I agree that this is the fundamental objective of the CAP. Therefore, we do not distract ourselves on other issues, we achieve the best instrument for all Spanish farmers and winners of the seventeen autonomous communities of Spain to achieve this result effectively, which is only the objective of ensuring that the activities are economically sustainable, environmentally sustainable and socially sustainable. We have been working on this and we will continue to work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MR CARMEN RIOLOBOS REGADERA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHY HASN'T YOU DIMITTED TO COVID-19'S EVOLUTION IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00351]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u111	Questions to the Minister for Health. Question by Mrs Carmen Riolobos Regadera, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u112	Mr Illa, why have you not resigned despite the evolution of COVID in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u113	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, we are in the middle of a second wave across Europe of the virus, and you and I have different priorities. Their priority seems to be to overthrow the government; mine is to defeat the virus, and to do so we must continue to work and, if possible, all together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u115	Mrs. Riolobos Regadera.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u116	Mr Sánchez will pass into history as the worst president of democracy, and you as the most irresponsible and incompetent minister. [[protests]] They are responsible for the biggest failure in public health since the flu of 1918, the figures are frightening. I give you a zero in prevention for the million dead, a zero in care for the sixty thousand dead, a zero in protection for the seventy thousand infected health care workers, whom you have forgotten, and the doctors are on strike. The figures are frightening. Purchase of defective masks and tests, and in zero transparency. How many are there and who are the experts? Zero in legislation - President Casado has been asking for legislation for months - and zero in truth. 'We've defeated the virus,' and it's a lie. You have gone on vacation, and you have remained inactive and lacking leadership for three months, leaving the autonomous communities alone, and naked, without laws to fight the virus. They have generated confusion, insecurity and boredom. By the way, do you justify the behaviour of the Socialist President of Balearic Islands, who skips the rules and closes the bars at two in the morning, where she is? And now they impose on us an extension of the disproportionate and uncontrolled state of alarm, a real failure. We hope Mr. Sánchez will come to defend you tomorrow. Mr. Illa, what else do you need to resign? If he had a minimum of decency and honorability, he would have already asked the Spanish for forgiveness and would have gone home, with Mr Simon, of course. Masks are the most necessary protective element. Families have been spending between 75 and 155 euros a month. Are you going to do business with the masks, allowing the golf industry to give a blast of 22 billion euros in VAT to families? We have asked you to lower VAT and be free of charge for vulnerable pensioners and groups. Do you know what the best social shield is? Well, the mask. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Illa. For not knowing anything, for bad management, for inaction... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Riolobos. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, it was March 11 when the World Health Organization declared that there was a pandemic all over the world. A pandemic concerns us all, and we all have a role to play in resolving it: the representatives of citizens in public administrations - the Government of Spain and the autonomous and municipal governments - the opposition groups with their action of controlling the Government and building a discourse of unity, if possible, and the citizens with their individual behaviour. However, since 11 March you do not seem to have had time to realize this, to realize that your political group also has a responsibility when it comes to sending messages to citizens. He is committed to making a government-destroying speech. It is in their right, but it is not what the citizens ask us to do. We are faced with a situation, throughout Europe, throughout the West, throughout the North Hemisphere, which is very worrying, with an increase in cases, which can put the assistance capacity at risk again. That is why the Government has been taking action: an Early Response Plan on 16 July, which was agreed with all the Autonomous Communities, a response action last Thursday of last week, also adopted by all the Autonomous Communities, and last Sunday a state of alarm decree, which we will communicate to this House tomorrow and whose extension we will also request, which empowers the Autonomous Communities to take appropriate measures commensurate with the reality of this situation. I would like everyone, in this context, also their political group, which rules in five autonomous communities, to hold our shoulders. Make the control of the Executive that they have to do, express their ideas in the way they consider appropriate, but please focus the priority and the goal in these coming months, which will be complicated because we are at the gates of winter, in defeating the virus. Let's see if we can get this in the next few weeks. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT DID THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN DO TO CONTAIN THIS SECOND WALK OF COVID-19 PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/00342]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u119	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u120	Thank you, Madam President. My question was for Mrs Calvo, because it deals not only with health issues, but also with economic and democratic issues, but we have seen that parliamentary control has been confined. So, Mr Illa, what has the Spanish Government done to prevent this second wave and to contain its health and economic effects?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u121	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I said in the previous reply, we are in the middle of a second wave across Europe, with worrying developments, with cumulative incidence rates, measured in cases per 100,000 inhabitants, in the countries of our environment and in our own country that are worrying and rising. The Government of Spain has done the following. First, it adopted a royal decree of new normality. Secondly, on 16 July, it agreed with all the autonomous communities on an early response plan that sets out criteria for risk assessment, and a set of actions that were developed in a response action guide adopted on 22 October last week, culminating in a new state of alarm decree that was agreed by the Government last Sunday. The Government, in addition to providing legal instruments to the autonomous communities, has provided them with technological means, such as the Radar COVID application; material means, with an important contribution of money, more than 16 billion; human means, with a set of more than 2,000 trackers formed by the army; and, as I have said, economic means, with a significant contribution of money. In addition, the Government is working together with European partners on a common strategy to obtain an effective vaccine, which we hope will arrive soon. And all this with respect to the institutional framework of Title VIII of our Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u123	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u124	Reality is what it is. There is a second wave across Europe, yes, but Spain has been the worst country to manage the pandemic and we are on our way to being the second wave as well. While Sanchez in July was screaming about 'we have defeated the virus', what you should have been doing is a national recovery prevention plan. We had been warning them for months that they would be out of control of the second wave throughout Spain, and now, unfortunately, the situation is alarming. I've been asking him for a long time - and he knows it - to take the reins and decree the state of alarm. And, yes, they decree the state of alarm, but no, they do not take the reins, because the state of alarm is already necessary today to take restrictive measures, obviously, but it is not worth any state of alarm. Did you really intend to come here with a state of alarm for six months, without parliamentary control, without accountability and without even being introduced by President Pedro Sánchez? Do not tell me that you are going to come to the Commission every fifteen days or that you are already coming to the control sessions, because that is the normal thing, and when there is a limitation of rights you have to increase accountability. It's first in democracy. This state of alarm is democratic, but it is much better. For example, why have you not made a national plan to lead the response to the second wave? You do what you do is to bring responsibility to the autonomous communities. Mr Illa, with all due respect, you are the Government of Spain, not a dispenser of autonomous alarm states. They have not made a resource coordination plan, such as ICUs. There is no coherent plan for all autonomous communities to be sure about the measures, and that citizens do not have to be looking at the BOE of their autonomous communities. Finally, where is the rescue plan for the sectors that will be affected? They won't last six months without help, Mr. Illa. You know - because you know - that we are a state party, a responsible party that from the minute one has fled from the gloom and has stretched his hand, but you also have to be up to it and you have to rectify, Mr Illa. We are in time to correct errors of the first wave, we are in time for the Spanish to see unity, certainty and clarity in the measures to combat the virus. The Spaniards have done their part, and now it's up to you...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, I have to start this plea by acknowledging that, in fact, your political formation has always been holding your shoulder. When you have had to support an extension of the state of alarm decree, you have done so and have had a critical attitude, it is true, but constructive. I want to recognize it here, I don't have any pain in doing it. I must tell you, however, that the Government has already made a national plan, the Government has an Early Response Plan, approved together with the Autonomous Communities on 16 July, and has updated it with the response actions adopted on 22 October. I must tell you that this has been done as, in our view, we must do, with respect for the institutional framework, which gives the autonomous communities a very important role in the fight against this second wave. From here all ideas are welcome, but the Government, one, has acted, two, coordinates the autonomous communities, and three, has the instruments and provides them to the autonomous communities in order to be able to respond effectively to that second wave. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IÑAKI RUIZ DE PINEDO UDIANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF CONSUMER: BEFORE THE PERSISTANCE OF PANDEMIA AND THE GREAT ECONOMIC CHARGE SUPPLEMENTING THE GAST IN MASKARILLES, SPECIALLY TO THE MOST VULNERABLE FAMILIES, HAVE PROVIDED SOME MEASURES TO RESPOND THE SITUATION? [[File number 180/00337]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u127	Question to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. Question by Mr Iñaki Ruiz from Pinedo Undiano, from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u128	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Masks are an element that we have to use by obligation, and it is an important tool in the fight against the pandemic. If we meet the standards for the use of masks, the regulations recommend that we do not use the mask for more than four hours and, in case it deteriorates, it is recommended to replace it and it is advised not to reuse it unless it is indicated that it is reusable. Well, this supposes that we should use at least three or four masks a day, but, even if they were two masks a day per person, in a family of three people this would entail significant costs, between 120 and 140 euros. For most households, it is a major consumption or a significant added consumption. This is creating different situations; there are households that can do so even at a significant cost, but there are other families that cannot make an adequate purchase to this extent. In fact, this is leading to many people being improperly using masks, putting their health and that of others at risk, because they cannot bear these costs. For our part, therefore, we believe that action should be taken on two lines: the reduction of masks, by reducing VAT or by reducing maximum prices, or by facilitating free access to all vulnerable people and families. In view of this situation, our question is this: given the persistence of the pandemic and the high economic burden of spending on masks, especially for vulnerable families, do you have any measures in place to respond to this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u129	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun on, Mr. Congressman. I share your concern, this ministry and this Government share that concern. In fact, since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been monitoring the prices of a good that had unfortunately become a vital asset, and that is now compulsory, as you have indicated. The truth is that the first thing we did, to control that these expenses were not excessive for most working families in our country, was to operate on the production side. This Government has encouraged and promoted the national production of masks. As you well know, from the beginning of the pandemic our country was not prepared for the production of masks, even we lacked equipment, machinery, for production, which left us at the mercy of international distributors and suppliers, many of whom took advantage of the situation to greatly raise prices and margins, in such a way that the resulting price was truly brutal. Therefore, what we did was to promote production, and currently there are about thirty companies in our country that produce masks in a growing way, but also in a heterogeneous and asymmetrical way, some produce two and a half million masks a week, another thirty thousand masks a week and, due to the increasing yields, in some cases the costs are much lower than those of other companies. Secondly, we set maximum prices to ensure that we were not actually faced with excessive limits. However, we are all here recognizing that for many families the current price of €0.96 remains excessive and a cause for concern. That is why from this government we are exploring different ways to facilitate masks, as you say, to certain social sectors, tax routes, different ways to lower the price. In fact, it's part of what we've been doing. This Government gave a fund of EUR 16 billion to the Autonomous Communities to combat the pandemic. Some of these lines were for health spending, and some autonomous communities, in fact, have devoted part of that health spending to financing the purchase of masks and distributing them free of charge to the most vulnerable sectors. We are working on this, because we have made it clear in this Government that our primary concern is to ensure the health protection of working families, and also protection against economic hardship, and this is an example of this. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u131	Mr. Ruiz of Pinedo Undiano.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u132	Thank you very much. What I'm asking you to do is act now. VAT can be lowered now. The distribution of masks to vulnerable groups can now do so. It's not just about wearing the mask in your mouth, it's about the masks being used properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u133	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u134	Mr. Congressman, totally agree. In fact, we have a guide to wearing masks. At the same time, we continue to explore the paths you have cited. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u135	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Health on the measures taken by the Government to curb the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain and minimize its effects. For your defense, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u136	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. Let's recap. We're at the end of October. The pandemic was recognized as being generous with the verb in early March. Since then, the Spaniards have been confined for months in our homes. Many domestic economies have been put at risk. People have gone to unemployment. Companies have broken down. And, above all and most importantly, we do not know the exact figure - that that has also been talked about, and a lot, but today I am not going to make reproaches, do you know that I am not to blame? I am not exaggerated, however, if I speak of more than 50,000 people who have died in the worst circumstances: alone. Throughout this process there has been a constant: the dynamics of blocs and partyism have weighed, far beyond what is admissible, for those who want to bear State responsibilities. This crisis took time to see itself as a health crisis, and was initially treated as a communicative crisis. No one admitted anything. They were good dates for the agitation of the electorate of the Government and were not wanted to see. I apply Ockham's knife, I'm not a friend of the conspiracies, which I will also talk about throughout this inquiry, but I do think they despised the danger of a pandemic, trying to treat it as a net marketing or marketing and communicative crisis for this government. Relevant data are also the number of infected health care workers in Spain, with a prevalence of 20% in health care workers during the first wave. Nine of the ten regions most affected by the pandemic in Europe have become Spanish. It is true that right now the pandemic is hitting our environment with all its hardness, but we continue to have bad data about the average of other countries with which we can compare. But you have to learn. Spain doesn't have to be different. To make a mistake twice in this respect is unforgivable, Minister, because the cost is too high. The morale of the citizenry sinks and, in addition, there are those who water everything with gasoline to see if this cocktail gives them anything. In August, a group of Spanish public health scientists made a proposal in The Lancet magazine, which, as you know, is one of the world's most prestigious health journals, to set up a commission of independent experts. It is a proposal that we join here: we ask for a committee of real experts. This has been done by other countries in our environment that seek to identify weaknesses and avoid major evils. But it is not the only call of attention of the scientific community, just fifty-five Spanish scientific societies have launched the initiative 'In health, you send but you don't know', with a decalogue that has a very important basic element: that everything that the governments, that of Spain and those of the autonomous communities, decide is disconnected from the political confrontation and based on the best scientific evidence. Why do they say this? Why does the scientific community permanently point to the political element in decision-making in a pandemic? Because that is another evidence; the cluster of merits of the political class in this pandemic is what makes Spain have rooted the shameful call of Cainite. I don't think Spain is a Cainite, but I do think it's its ruling class, and that's how we behave. Scientists ask for common criteria based exclusively on science, duel to whom it hurts, whether popular or not. Stop calculating the cost of image or the opportunity of a measurement. I know you share this, but I think other bodies have put marketing where there should only have been science. I give you an example: the statement 'we have defeated the virus' was not believed by anyone and said it exultantly by the President of the Government. What effect did that have on the population? Did it help to maintain the tension necessary not to relax? I would have other more bloody examples, but in my mind it is nothing more than proposing that which motivates, practicing a strict economy of reproach. While last week in this House there was a motion of cosmetic censorship, which seemed designed by the Moncloa, while VOX was taking photosynthesis, the Senate was available to make proposals. What did Citizens do? We have agreed with the People's Party and the Socialist Party to urge you, the Government, to carry out an independent study on the management of the pandemic; an independent study that is neutral, objective, without revenge and with the sole objective of detecting and correcting errors, which audits all - to all - the Governments, in which citizens are also, because we have surely made mistakes. We also managed to get support for that highly named, but not fully executed, strategic material reserve and to finish improving the implementation of the COVID radar, which is still underutilized with regard to everything it can provide and, in addition, it can perfectly complement the work of the trackers. But our main demand is a national health coordination plan that will help to curb transmission and mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, because it is also very important to talk about the effects that will come. We want all available resources to be used, not to regard the ICUs of Spain as seventeen independent cells, both public and private. All available resources are that, resources, no last names, no matter where they are. The transfer of patients with COVID within the same Autonomous Community or to neighbouring Autonomous Communities can be improved, depending on the needs and levels of saturation. We propose that the number of health-care staff should be strengthened by the implementation of a State funding programme covering the recruitment of health-care staff, listening to professionals. One of the most troubling issues is what happens to patients from other pathologies who stop treating themselves, who see that there are no resources anymore; pathologies that get worse and diagnoses that are sometimes fatally delayed. We also propose the creation of a public health agency to assume the State's responsibilities in the field of external health and public health. No one escapes - and it is not his fault or any Administration, but all - that decentralization was confused with the dismantling of the Ministry of Health. So I remember every day when the visionaries of Podemos rejected this ministry because they considered it a'mariah', for using a school term. You will tell me which visionary of Podemos I have to thank this, many Spaniards and I, because this could have been much worse, much worse. We also propose to improve tracking and screening through the following measures: the completion of the process of the app, as I have already said, and that it be an effective interconnection with the databases of the autonomous communities, that we already know what has happened to us sometimes, that in the era of big data we have been working with PDF, a great reason why everyone has pulled where they wanted. The greatest advantage we have over the past in previous epidemics is the ability to send a data instantaneously to any place in the world. I recognize that I have been impressed by the technological gap, which is the responsibility of all the governments that have passed through the Ministry of Health, of the Spanish Health Administration. One thing is that there are measures that are actually the same as in the 1918 flu, such as confining or using the mask - we deal with a virus of the same nature as previous viruses - but another is that we also go, as in the 1918 flu, with paper and pen in the middle era of communication and big data. I think I've set a bad example with the pen, because I think both you and I are fond of using them. On the other hand, we believe that the capacities of pharmacists and pharmacy offices, for example, in the field of screening, are not fully exploited. Look what pharmacists have proposed in Galicia and if it is working, because I have the feeling that there can go a great reinforcement for the testing and tracking capacity of those infected with COVID. Tomorrow they will bring for their extension the state of alarm to this House; it is a drastic but necessary measure, so we have asked it in Citizens, what they cannot claim is that this is assumed as that spring arrives. The state of alarm is not a season of the year - spring or autumn -, they must give you the entity you have and submit to the control of this House; the state of the weapon is not a normal circumstance - it has just been said by the president of my party, Inés Arrimadas - and I know that it is not popular. Some guru out there will recommend that they be safe from the expansive wave of an alarm state, that they identify themselves with others, that the cost of image be distributed. We have asked for the state of alarm because the numbers of contagion are very worrying and we knew that there was no alternative, we have what it costs, because we are aware that there is no other way to offer legal certainty, moreover necessary, to take the necessary measures to stop this pandemic and mitigate its effects. We were decisive in some of the extensions at the worst time in the pandemic. There were those who played ACME brand lawyers and said there was another way, but we knew that the state of arms was the only legal cover that existed for this situation. It is not something for you to feel proud or relieved, gentlemen of the Government. If we have to declare the state of alarm it is because you have not done your legislative duties either. They washed their hands, relegated all responsibility to the autonomous communities and renounced their rightful leadership and coordination. It's important that you keep that in mind. Their responsibility does not end in declaring a state of alarm, because the state of the weapon is not only a legal envelope to take certain measures of health containment, as has been said, they also have to give content an alarm state, they have to make decisions. You have very clear competencies in the management of the pandemic, you must lead and coordinate, no more or less. No one asks them to do what is not theirs; quite the contrary, we ask them from Citizens nothing else to do exactly what is theirs, which are the functions attributed to them by the Constitution and the laws. That's what they have to do, lead and coordinate. You're not a self-help office that the autonomous communities call to say, "Hey, I need a state of alarm, give me two." No, that's not how this works. In this sense, in Citizens we ask you the same thing that we have been asking for for months, to spread out and to put a plan on the table; we cannot keep walking blind. We still have no firm, objective and homogenous criteria far from any political interference, which would cast doubt on the citizenry, which can meet them with confidence without thinking that you are putting on the political levers to wear down such a government or such president of an autonomous community. We have not yet established clear mechanisms for referral of patients between autonomous communities to avoid excessive tensions between health services. We still don't have enough funds to have doctors and nurses and medical technicians. We still have no programs to hire enough trackers to reach the target of one tracker per 500,000 inhabitants. We still do not bid the famous 25 billion megacontract to feed the strategic health reserve. Mr. Illa, put on the batteries, please. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Díaz, I would like to begin by commenting, first of all, on my contribution to the award-giving of a medium of communication, in which I have been like many others. In my case, I was only on institutional representation the time strictly necessary to round up one of the pandemic award winners, the Armed Forces, who have done such good work. After the award, maybe they don't know, I left, I didn't stay for dinner. Many citizens have not understood it and I want to tell them that they are right; it is true that it was done with the rules and with the distances, but they are right. Look, even in those acts in which all the requirements are met, even in those cases, it is better to avoid them; the path is only one: the best distance is not to be, and we must all be guided by that path because the citizens are right. I wanted to start my speech with this comment. [[Applauds]] The second thing I want to do, Mr Díaz, is to re-recognize the critical but constructive attitude that your group has always had. You, on the many occasions when we have had the opportunity to debate in the Committee on Health, have been incisive in those areas where you believed that government action should be improved, but always from a constructive attitude, so necessary at the moment and that I would like it to serve as an example to many other political formations. I will begin by reviewing the situation, and the situation is indeed very worrying, but it is also very worrying throughout Europe, the political, economic and social area to which we belong. It is very worrying not only because of the cumulative incidence data in countries such as Belgium, with 1354 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days; in France, with 610 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days; in the Netherlands, with 634 cases; in Switzerland, with 455 cases; in the United Kingdom, with almost 400, and just over 300, in Italy, but also because of the rapid growth rate experienced in this second wave. It is true that the situation is different in terms of lethality, in terms of the profile of the newly diagnosed, in terms of pressure in the care system, that is, this second is different from the first, but the situation, I insist, is very worrying and we see how all countries are making decisions. The situation is therefore of concern because of the rapid increase in cases, because of the characteristics of this second wave and because of the moment it occurs, at the gates of winter, when we are still waiting a few months in which it seems to indicate that the COVID-19, as well as the rest of the respiratory viruses, the winter favors it. That requires, therefore, that we all - all, all - become aware of the situation in which we are. Secondly, I want to refer to the role of science. Science is the one who is going to get us out of this situation; scientists with their work are the ones who will provide us with more and more information and knowledge about this virus, which we still do not know much about today. It is true that we have been adapting our decisions - all countries have done so and also ours - to those information and discoveries provided by scientists. It is therefore an important role that of science, as it has guided us with its recommendations so far and will continue to guide us in the action and decisions that the Government will take in the coming months on how best to combat this pandemic. Thirdly, there is the role of politics, of the rulers. You have mentioned in your speech what we should do and what we should not do First, we must - I basically agree with what you have said - respect the role that citizenship has assigned to everyone, and those who have the responsibility to govern we must make the decisions with determination, knowing that science provides us with criteria that can change in a few weeks, but with determination, taking those decisions that are the best to better protect the health of citizens, which is also the best way to protect their economy, and respecting the institutional framework that the Spaniards gave us over forty years ago; an institutional framework that gives the Autonomous Communities a very important role in the fight against this second wave, which also provides elements for, if necessary, to provide the Government with the instruments of rapid, determined and effective action, as has been seen in the first wave, but which, I insist, gives the Autonomous Communities at this time a very important role. We see a second wave with different behaviors, depending on the different territories of our country and, therefore, the response cannot be a homogeneous response. It is true that we have to have homogeneous response criteria, we have to have homogeneous common criteria to assess risk and to determine what are the appropriate response actions to that risk assessment, but the response cannot be the same in the Canary Islands, with an accumulated incidence of about eighty cases per 100,000 inhabitants, whether in Navarre or in Aragón or Madrid or in Catalonia or in the Principality of Asturias or Andalusia or in Valencia, with very different cumulative incidences and social characteristics, population density, mobility, very different in each of these territories. It also has a very important role to play in the local world, the municipalities, the local entities, with which yesterday I had the opportunity to meet with the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service, firstly, to recognize their important role, and secondly, to ask them to continue in these months that they continue to have a decisive attitude in the fight against the virus, for their precise knowledge of the reality of their municipalities and for the leadership that the mayors and municipal representatives exercise before their respective communities. What have we done since the first wave ended on June 21st? For us to have a legal instrument, Royal Decree 21/2020, known as a new norm, to have an early response plan agreed within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System with all the autonomous communities, to develop instruments provided for in our legislation that until now we had not had the need to activate, coordinated actions in public health, decisions that are taken within the Interterritorial Council and that are, once adopted, mandatory compliance. On four occasions we have taken coordinated actions in public health, since the first one on 14 August, prohibiting night leisure, up to the most recent in the field of education, in the field of influenza vaccination, in the field of VOCID-19 vaccination, in the field of recognition of the role of local authorities and in many other fields where a combination with the autonomous communities has been needed. Last week, on 22 October, we also adopted, at the request of some autonomous communities, a joint document, a response action document, a guide setting four levels of alert in our country, which determines the epidemiological criteria on the basis of which the risk must be assessed and how to establish that a particular territory is at one of those four levels of alert and a set of response options associated with each of these levels of risk, corresponding to each autonomous community the risk assessment, the application of these criteria to their respective territories and the decision on the most appropriate response actions. This was also accompanied, as you know, by a decision taken by the Government last Sunday to declare the state of alarm throughout the national territory and also to offer a range of response options that the competent delegated authorities have, always in accordance with our constitutional order, which in this case we established are the presidents of the autonomous communities or of the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla. This - let me also tell you with all humility, but clearly - is not to wash your hands; this is to respect the institutional framework, to be next to the autonomous communities, to coordinate the action of the autonomous communities, allowing a proportionate, adequate and thought-out response to each territorial reality according to their epidemiological situation. In addition, we do this by recognizing the important role that all health professionals - which I once again want to recognize from this rostrum - and also the valuable role that the pharmaceutical collective - to which you have referred - and all the health groups that have been working hard since February to defeat this virus. I also want to refer to the horizon that we have ahead of us, so that we do not deceive ourselves, and it is not a horizon that is neither short in time nor easy in terms of the actions that we have to take. It is a time horizon that we estimate in five or six months, and therefore we propose a duration of the state of alarm that generates a framework of stability and certainty in the decision-making of six months, until May 2021. It is a horizon that will also come very determined by the enormous efforts being made to find an effective treatment or a safe and effective vaccine. In this regard, you know very well that we are part of the European vaccine strategy and the great work being done by the European Union to make a vaccine available to our citizens, to the citizens of the European Union, as soon as possible, with the highest safety requirements and with guarantees that it is effective. We're going to buy a vaccine portfolio, a group of at least seven vaccines, so we can administer them. Here I would like to take this opportunity to thank the important work and efforts not only of science, but also of the pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, Your Honor, the situation is serious, science has to guide us and politics has to act on criteria of unity. It has been done by coordinating the autonomous communities and we have a worrying horizon, but we are going to overcome it. We're going to defeat this second wave too, if we all do it together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u139	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Díaz Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. You have stressed, Mr Illa, the need for science to take the lead and all decisions to be made on the basis of science. It seems a lie that we have to be saying this in the 21st century, but it is true that there is a strong return of shamanism and strong anti-illustrated movements that on both sides of the political spectrum sow confusion. With regard to the uniform criteria, I know that it is not the same island as the Peninsula, but I also know that we are the same species and that it is the same virus, which makes it perfectly possible to establish objective criteria on the basis of these last two elements that I have told you. On the other hand, you have pointed out in the Health Committee - quite rightly, in my opinion - when others wanted to plant in agents or people who came from outside the expansion of the pandemic, the prefix bread of the word pandemic, because it includes us all. The virus cannot be combated only in Spain, it has to be combated everywhere, but the same happens within the autonomous communities, that is, they have that responsibility with respect to the entire national territory. I would like to highlight a few issues that have been left to me in my previous speech. With regard to the health reserve, they have sent me the problem that is happening with blood and plasma donations. The situation that has been generated has retracted the capacity for blood and plasma donations. You know that many people with immunodeficiencies need plasma for a monthly treatment and fear that this reservation may be terminated. On the other hand, I did not want to get out of here today without talking about the aspects of the mental health pandemic. He knows that I have insisted on this issue in the many appearances that we have shared in this house and that we are concerned about the impact that the pandemic is already having on the mental health of the Spaniards. Confinements, fear, crisis, all together is a cocktail that can do a lot of damage in this sense. And above all - and you know that we are particularly concerned - it can lead to an increase in suicide, as was already seen in 2008, in a crisis situation. That is why we believe that this is an ideal time to work on this issue and to have a prevention plan. You know I like to highlight also what they do well. I would like to congratulate you - and I have already done so in the Commission, but I repeat it today - on the statements you made to the media, thus complying with what has been agreed in the Health Reconstruction Committee, in particular with one of our amendments and with the criteria that Citizens have put forward, which are also the criteria of the WHO, to prevent suicide and to help survivors. I would also like to congratulate you on the study of seroprevalence, because I know that the benefits that you have brought us and what we have learned are much more than we imagine. I also know that they are going to start it up again and I hope it will have the same success. And last but not least, there are those who believe that the virus is a secret communist weapon that has made Mao TseTung in a basement, but there are also those who believe it is Gaia's punishment for using aluminium deodorant. This must be fought, the conspirators will always count their films and will look for reptiles with human skin or will look for Soros transfers in my current account for supporting a state of alarm. They are people who are not able to assume neither the entropy of the universe nor the theory of evolution, and these people must be combated with science. Both forces are fighting with the Illustration and in that case with science and vaccine, but in the case of those who question the validity of vaccines - which say they generate autism or similar films - you have to have a plan and prepare to deal with these creatures, which seem to exit the Circus Barnum. A campaign from the ministry for flu vaccination this time would be more important than ever, for vaccines that can come - hopefully as soon as possible - will be more necessary than ever. In Citizens, and I personally, we have always made criticism, but criticism without proposal makes us Tertullians and commentators of today. I have made a number of proposals to you today throughout my speech. Take note of them. And, as I've always been doing, I give you all my encouragement for you and your team. On the political side, our collaboration, and on the personal side - and you know it - has all my help in what I can hold my hand. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Health has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. Indeed, every effort must be made to combat what you have called shamanism and anti-illustration. A lot of commitment. You said you only fight Illustration. Kant, the philosopher, said that Illustration is the release of man from his guilty incapacity. Let's not fall into the mistake of going back to dark times. Vaccines save lives, the flu vaccine saves lives, the VOCID vaccine will save lives, it will be an effective and safe vaccine when we administer it. There we must all be united, in delivering a clear and clear message to the citizenry. We did not fall into dark times, which fortunately were overcome. In that regard, because of its importance, you know that the last coordinated action in public health that we jointly adopted by the Autonomous Communities and the Government was precisely to set up a COVID-19 vaccine working group. There are all the autonomous communities represented, there are the experts of the ministry, there are scientific societies, there are associations of bioethics, so that all together raise a proposal for vaccination for the COVID-19 and a campaign for communication to society. This is being done intensively and, of course, also to keep a record of people vaccinated from COVID-19. The criteria have to be the same, and this is reflected in the documents to which I referred before; the same criteria for assessing it and the same joint panel, which will have to be applied depending on the situation in each territory. Indeed, a pandemic is a disease that affects everyone, the whole world and also the whole territory of our country. Therefore, no autonomous community, no municipality, no neighbourhood are left out of what happens in our territorial context as a state that we are, as a nation that we are, and not in the European context either. This is the case and therefore requires coordinated action within our country and out with our European partners and with international bodies, in particular the World Health Organization, with whom we are in constant contact. Yesterday, without going any further, we had a video conference with the Ministry's technical team and WHO representatives in Europe. You have made me - as always we have occasion to debate usually to do, and I am grateful to you - three or four observations that I will take into consideration and I will respond as soon as I gather the information. In the area of blood and plasma donation, this has indeed been affected by the situation of COVID-19; also in the area of mental health, and thanks for the recognition it has made to some measures that have been adapted in this regard. Yesterday I had the opportunity to meet with the Parkinson's Disease Association and we were also moved how this important group of people with this disease has been affected by the situation of COVID-19. Therefore, there is a whole set of effects, let us call it, indirect of the COVID-19 that we must begin to deal with jointly with the Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain. I take note of the comments you have made to me in that regard. I want to thank you very especially two things. First, the reference you made to the seroprevalence study. Indeed, I believe that Spain is the only country that has done a seroprevalence study with three waves - therefore dynamic - that has made it possible to measure in a precise way with data at the provincial level the evolution of the disease throughout our country. This seroprevalence study will be completed with three more waves; the next one is expected to start in mid-November, adapted to the flu vaccination process. Therefore, together with the Autonomous Communities, we decided to start the administration process on 16 November for this group of more than 60 000 people who have been willing to continue with this study, which I think we should thank them for. And it's going to have a fifth and sixth wave in the months of February and May, which is the time horizon that we still foresee for the duration of the pandemic. It is therefore true that a very important effort has been made there. I think we need to reflect on why this study went well and it is because we did it and planned it in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities and it has been a global scientific reference. I want to end up thanking you for your offer of help. Help is needed from all, from your group and from all groups. Therefore, I thank you heartily and you know that I take it into consideration and I am also at your disposal for what you need. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda on the regulation of rental prices [[Madam Vehi Cantenys]] IN THE FIELD OF A FUTURE LAW ON RESPECT. [[File number 172/000060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u144	Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys, to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda concerning the regulation of housing rental prices through a future law on this matter. For your defence, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u145	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister, and good morning to the Members. In September the law on rental regulation was passed in the Parliament of Catalonia and you yourself last week announced the regulation of rental prices of the housing linked - it seems - both to a budget agreement and to the Housing Act. We have decided to keep the inquiry, despite its announcement, an announcement that we like and that we hope it will go forward, and we have decided for two purposes. The first is that we are concerned that the Catalan law reaches the Constitutional Court to be annulled. This morning the spokesman for Esquerra Republicana asked the President of the Government the same thing. And we are concerned that the Constitutional Court has become the third legislative chamber of the Spanish State and there have been many laws that the Catalan Parliament has adopted as a guarantee and extension of rights and that the Constitutional Court has suspended. And we are also concerned because your party voted against this law in the Parliament of Catalonia, so the first thing we ask you is: Are you going to shield the Catalan law of rental regulation? The second reason why we have decided to maintain the inquiry is that we are concerned about something else: how long will it take you to regulate rents in the Spanish State? Because, as you know, the situation is limitless, poverty continues to increase and the COVID-19 gives us an image of the Spanish state broken by the crisis and with misery as the daily headline of many families. We are particularly concerned because, as you know, the brick market has been one of the cornerstones of the casino economy in the Spanish state and has had many lows and many costs, because the brick market, along with neoliberal policies or what some theorists call the free hand of the market - it is free only for some, not for the rest, it is usually always free for them, for those who have the freedom to speculate and to negotiate with common goods and fundamental goods - as I said, it leaves many costs. It is that housing is the fundamental element for families and people to have a decent life. Indeed, many of the studies on human rights organizations show this. This week I have been fundamentally reviewing two: the reports that the Ombudsman has drawn up and the reports also from the DESC centre in Catalonia. The loss of housing is one of the main elements of poverty, it is one of the main elements that triggers a series of consequences that can end up with a lot of people living on the street. In fact, with the pandemic we have seen how food banks increase queues and we have seen more and more people living on the street. [[The Lord]] Theorists of urbanism and critical sociology, mainly Mr David Harvey, explain housing and real estate capital as the center of economic war in cities. He speaks of accumulation by dispossession. What is this word, which seems complex? It is very simple: few powerful and with money are left with the wealth of many. And in 2008 we heard a lot of arguments from the right, a lot of neoliberal arguments that in the face of the crisis told us - you will remember - that people had lived above their possibilities, that there had been bad deals and even came to accuse families of having mismanaged the family economy, of having asked for mortgages when they did not play or of being assuming costs that, because of the salary they had, they could not bear them. Well, that's not true, and there are a lot of reasons why it's not true. We have little time and we will bring you two examples. The first example is that mortgage evictions have fallen considerably in the Spanish state and this is a very clear reason and is a judgment of the European Union High Court of Justice against the ground clauses. This means, for example, in Catalonia - and the numbers are more or less repeated in the framework of the Catalan countries and in the framework of the Spanish State - the evictions have decreased by 50% for reasons of mortgage default and the reason is clear: the courts correct an unfair situation, it is not that people live above their possibilities, it is that there is an unfair treatment on the part of the bank. The evictions that have greatly increased are those of rent, and you know it, if not, you would not have made this announcement and would not be open to regulate the market of rent and, if not, the Parliament of Catalonia would not have passed the law of regulation of rents. Currently, in Catalonia - more or less the percentages are repeated in the framework of the Catalan countries and the Spanish State - 68% of evictions are for rent. They are data from the General Council of the Judiciary, and the question is: Is it for any weather reason? No, no, Of course, it has objective reasons and public policies that justify increased rental evictions. The main reason is the policies and legislation that his party, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, did in 2012. Currently, in the Spanish State, if you stop paying a month's rent, you can be discharged. In fact, the procedures were speeded up so that they did not even have to go through the courts. Between 2008 and 2012, the number of evictions for rent in Catalonia was more or less 29 000 and in the Spanish State more than 244,000. Between 2003 and 2019 - 2008 post-crisis - they multiplied in Catalonia by three, 100,935, and in the Spanish state by two, 440,107 evictions due to rent default. The Ombudsman also explains that, as evictions increased, investment in public housing decreased. In fact, today is only 1.5%. Of course, getting the rental evictions up isn't random, and you know it well. Public policies matter and matter a lot. Public policies are like an arbiter in a football match. They set standards and these standards, according to their speeches, should ensure that families can have a home, a decent home. The second example that explains what accumulation by dispossession is in a very simple way is the Sareb, the bad bank that the government created in 2012, which absorbed the toxic assets of the banks. 46% was publicly owned, via FROB, and took over the assets, issued debt with public approval to recover the money. I mean, if you couldn't get the money back, the state was paying back. That is, the famous bank bailout. Sareb hasn't stopped having losses. In 2012, 5.49 million euros and in 2017, 567 million euros. And today the FROB, that is, the state, has 0% public participation. There have been many voices - not precisely communists or leftists - who have explained that most of the public bailout will not be recovered. In other words, there is a real estate crisis due to bad banking practices, the state assumes via Sareb most of the toxic assets, it loses money and sells its participation to four hard, to say the least, colloquially, but if Sareb loses, who wins? Well, the usual ones, the ones who buy the assets at balance prices. And who are they? Investment funds, Blackstone or Cerberus. In fact, Blackstone - I repeat the name again because the citizenry has to know who is partly responsible for not being able to pay the rent in the Spanish state, Blackstone - is the largest owner of housing in the Spanish state and of hotels. Its president made some chilling statements in April of that year. He said: We have more than EUR 250 million of dry powder to invest in the crisis. These people are scoundrels, the cornerstone of the casino economy. I am running out of time, so I turn to the conclusions. You know that of housing and real estate scam we could talk for a lot of hours. The first conclusion is that people did not live above their possibilities. There were and there are public policies that have facilitated the housing business - I repeat, casino economy - and this has many casualties, many costs, a lot of misery, breaks many lives. The second conclusion is that COVID obviously multiplies poverty and housing, as we have said before, is a fundamental element for the sustainability of lives and families. Therefore, urgent public housing policies are needed. In the free hand of the market they always win the same: Blackstone, Cerberus, the investment funds. And the third conclusion is proposals, the proposals that will articulate the motion that will follow this inquiry. First, regulate the emergency rent, don't wait to make a housing law. Families can't wait, people can't wait, people can't pay rent. The second proposal is that you take the real estate assets of the Sareb and put them in the public housing park. These assets have been paid for by citizens. Put them in the public housing park. Regulate the market, regulate prices and make available to citizens all that we have already paid, which are so many, so many, empty dwellings that are used to speculate. The third proposal is to ban evictions. It cannot be within the framework of a state of alarm in which evictions are permitted. Prohibit evictions. It can't be that people are under a curfew or a state of alarm, but they can get rid of it. Prohibit evictions. And the fourth proposal is that they end the socimis. Prohibit them. 80% of the real estate capital held by the socimis is rent and is therefore directly responsible for the situation. I'm done. This is a battle between capital and life. It may seem very grandiose, but it's either you gamble for life or capital will end up with a lot of families. Or the capitalism of disaster - these words of the president of the investment fund he quoted earlier - or policies that save families. The Government of Progress has to have objective left-wing public policies, and surely security and democracy is the closest thing to knowing that, if someone knocks at your door at six in the morning, it is not the police to carry out an eviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u146	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. I thank you for the interpellation because it allows us to talk about housing policy. If you will allow me, I will do so in this first round and in the second, if I may, I will talk about what I have left to answer what you have asked me; I will take advantage of that moment. I would like to frame a little the initiative within the housing policy to contextualize it and, above all, to account for what we are doing in this area, because since we arrived at the government in 2018 we have placed housing as a priority, promoting social access to it and creating the necessary framework to improve the quality of our cities and homes. The Spanish Urban Agenda, through its action plan, aims to be, together with the Mobility Strategy, one of the two key instruments guiding the ministry's policy. In this context, from the Government we are working with the firm intention to comply with the investment agreements that we reached at the time. To this end, we have been undertaking the measures that I will summarise below. First, the development of a State system of reference rates for the rental price of housing. We have developed this system with two objectives: on the one hand, to ensure transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the housing rental market and, on the other, to serve the implementation of public housing policies, in particular those aimed at increasing the supply of affordable housing. The development of this system responds to one of the characteristics of the lease in Spain, which is the absence of official statistics on prices that serve as a reference for individuals and the different agents operating on the market. Therefore, the first objective of this system is to establish a systematic system to provide a reliable and contrasted information base to know the situation of the residential rental market with the aim of ensuring transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the housing rental market. This system is based on information that has a degree of detail and coverage that to date had not been provided by any other source of information. It represents a total of more than 11,200,000 real estate properties that have been rented as usual housing between 2015 and 2018, allowing for a detailed territorial analysis. Secondly, we present the study carried out on social housing in Spain, whose data have given us the most relevant information currently available in this field. It highlights the need to take measures in favour of social housing for persons and households with difficulties in accessing housing on the market. Social housing is a scarcely developed housing policy instrument in Spain in contrast to the main European countries, as it has been more focused on the production of protected housing in our country, rather on sales promotions. Among the most significant data is the estimate of the existing public-owned social housing stock in our country, which is located around the 290 000 social housing units, a very small number, as can be seen. Of these, 180,000 are owned by the autonomous communities and 110,000 are owned by municipalities. This is a figure that contrasts with the more than 2,300,000 protected dwellings built in the period 1981-2019, as a result of the fact that such protected dwellings have been intended mostly for sale, with very little weight on the promotion of public housing intended for rent. Thirdly, we are working on the analysis of the housing situation that the health crisis is causing in our country. As you know, the situation caused by the health crisis has led to changes in rent income and in the economic situation of citizens. The tenants and tenants have tried to reach agreements, as the rental market has not had the activity it had been having until then. By not leaving the houses, not being able to make visits, the real estate agencies have not been able to carry out their activity, and all this has made the market stand still in these months. In addition, this has led to the move to the residential market. Given these circumstances and the emergency and exceptional situation caused by the pandemic, we have a difficult situation to diagnose. The information we have is not in line with reality, because what we need to know is the impact this crisis has caused and is causing on rental prices. We need to analyse the situation very well, assess the situation as a whole and see how the housing market responds to address and establish certain public policies that increase the supply of affordable housing and ensure access to housing when we can clear up all the uncertainties in the housing market. And fourthly, we have designed a medium- and long-term strategy based on the preliminary draft law on the right to housing, whose prior public consultation is open until 15 November. I must stress that, throughout the democratic stage, no state rule of law with the status of law has been adopted to guarantee the realization of this right throughout the territory. Spain needs an ambitious and sustained housing policy over time, and for this reason we are pushing this legal text. This is a necessary law, since housing constitutes a right recognized in the Spanish Constitution in its article 47, which will comply with the competences of the State to regulate the basic conditions that guarantee equality in the exercise of constitutional rights and always from the basis of the necessary consultation and cooperation with the autonomous communities and municipalities, which are competent for the implementation of housing policies in Spain. This is a timely law, as we are at a particularly relevant time, in which, following the economic and financial crisis of the last decade and in a short time under the severe effects of an unprecedented pandemic in our history, a significant part of the population has serious difficulties in accessing affordable housing, and should therefore be regarded as the fundamental problem facing the norm through the application of different measures and legal provisions. It will be an effective law to address problems of access to housing by promoting public action, including: regulating housing policies as a public service of general interest; promoting the development of stable public housing parks; strengthening the right to decent housing at affordable prices; providing transparency, security and information as a guarantee of the right to housing; and facilitating regulation that limits rent price increases in certain particularly tense areas. I must stress that the failure to pass a state law does not mean that the State has been absent in housing matters. Its activity through State plans has been and continues to be truly relevant, and it will even be more important and committed in the future to two differentiated plans, which, as I have already explained on some other occasion, will be, one, in terms of access to housing and the other, in terms of rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal. Moreover, since the ministry we have always had and are having continuous contact and work with all the actors in the sector, the social actors, the third sector, as well as with all the autonomous communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, and we want to continue with this line of work, because they are all key to moving forward in a consensual text, encouraging dialogue and participation at different working tables that we are going to be forming next November. In short, we want this law to be not another law, but a law as consensual as possible and also to have the maximum meeting points in this House. In this legislative text we are pushing for different measures affecting housing policy and, above all, the social sphere, as well as ensuring access to housing, with scrupulous respect for the competences of the autonomous administrations. In addition, it will be in this preliminary draft law where we will contemplate the containment of rents from housing rental prices. This will be done after all actors, social organizations, public administrations and the private sector have been heard. I would like to stress that this will be a timely, weighted, assessed and proportionate measure. We made this clear yesterday Tuesday in the specific agreement we signed with Unidad Podemos. To this end, we will form different working groups in order to foster a debate that will allow the drafting of the legislative text, which in any case will develop and respect the coalition agreement. We will raise the proposal to the Council of Ministers within a maximum of three months and present it to this House within a maximum of four months. Without doubt, with this law we will improve the transparency and information of housing offers and leases themselves. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. We are committed to promoting measures to facilitate the enjoyment of decent, adequate and affordable housing, in a very particular way in rent, for families with less economic resources, within an appropriate legislative framework, improving legal and procedural guarantees for affected persons as a guarantee of the realization of the right to housing. Finally, because I have been asked a question that affects the constitutionality of a rule adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia, I must say that these constitutionality issues do not fall within the competence of this ministry. As you know, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Territorial Policy, which will have to consider, where appropriate, whether there are elements of constitutionality. Previously, as you know, there is always a process of agreement, of conversation, of negotiation, before any recourse. But, as I tell you, it is not the responsibility of this ministry to manage this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u148	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u149	Thank you. Minister, I thank you for the tone and I thank you for the explanation of the housing policy, but the situation is urgent. You have explained to me the housing policy - which I already knew, which I largely share and believe is going in the right direction - but it is that the situation is what it is, and the situation is extremely urgent. Look, in the twelve minutes that my first speech lasted, just in twelve minutes, which takes you a coffee in the morning, there's been an eviction in the Spanish state. Every twelve minutes there is an eviction in the Spanish state, Minister. This is the situation. In fact, for tomorrow, within the framework of the state of alarm decree, we have tabled a number of amendments and there are two that go on housing, one is that you stop evictions while the state of alarm lasts and the second is that you regulate prices, that you make moratoriums, especially those small businesses that people have and those that cannot pay rent. This is the situation, Minister. I understand that you cannot answer me if you are going to bring Catalan law to the Constitutional Court, it is not your competence. I understand that, but it's that people don't understand skills, people want security, people want to know that they're not going to kick him out of their house. Do you know who doesn't contribute to society? The rentists; these people are the ones who don't contribute to society, these people are the ones who don't work, the ones who live exclusively on income. There are also arguments from the right that there are many families living on rent and that, therefore, regulating rents would go against these families. Do you know what the data says? That this is not true, that the greater concentration of property is in investment funds, that the greater concentration of property and people who speculate with housing is in investment funds, and that people whose family economic structure depends on a rent is the one who does not speculate with housing; these people are the ones who already regulate prices because what they are not going to do is to put rents that people cannot afford. What person, what country, can justify someone having nowhere to live? How much money, how much moral corruption is needed to look elsewhere, or worse, to defend the rights of the rentists, Minister? It's an emergency situation. I want to end by thanking all the organized people that for evictions, because if the government's public policies do not stop evictions, it will have to be citizenship. Thanks to the housing unions, thanks to the platforms against evictions, thanks to all those people who get up many days at five in the morning to stop the Security Forces and Corpses that take people out of their homes, thanks for responding with organization and collectivity to the moral misery that supposes that in the middle of a state of alarm and in the middle of a pandemic people will continue to unravel it. There is another way of living, Minister, and, above all, there is another way of governing. Regulate rent prices immediately, ban evictions immediately, make quick public policy, make concrete and quick gestures because people don't understand skills, people understand whether you can pay rent or not, whether you have to light candles because you can't pay bills for light. Control the prices of supplies, Minister. If tomorrow in this House we are going to vote on the extension of a state of alarm, that tomorrow in this House we are also going to vote on the ban on evictions and the immediate regulation of rental prices. I ask you again: Are you going to accept the amendments of the Candidature d'Unit Popular to stop evictions and to regulate rent prices immediately? Are you going to facilitate a state of alarm legal framework with people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. I want to clarify a little, because I do not want it to remain in the air, an issue that you have raised, which is that during the pandemic no measures have been taken - it is not so and I will detail them - or the idea that we stop the evictions being practiced. In theory, no eviction has to be considered because we suspend evictions in the state of alarm. We have extended all these measures - they are extended - but there has to be some contract. This morning Mr. Rufián taught me a photo of an eviction that struck me yesterday when I saw it, and logically I quickly became interested because surprisingly the decree we put forward does not allow these evictions. Indeed, it seems that it was an octopus, to the extent that there was no contract. There is no contract, I do not know the reason for the possession, possibly it is an ocupation - I do not know -, what is true is that there is no contract and that it depends on the Sareb and that we have obviously made contact because it is not the image that this country deserves - in that I do agree -, especially if there are minors. Of course, the measures we adopted and adopted by this Government do not allow evictions, so it is not a response if I am in favour; we have already done so and evictions are not allowed. [[The lady]] Since the beginning of the health crisis we have been taking numerous housing measures to alleviate its effects; we cannot ask for confinement and at the same time put the possibility of a dwelling at risk, it is a contradiction. That is why we suspended the eviction and launching procedure that affected housing leases, because there was already a moratorium on mortgage debtors. We extended six months the leases that ended in that period, automation in the extension of the contracts. In a situation of vulnerability, where the lessor is a public entity or a large holder, he was asked to reduce the rent or moratorium of up to four months in the payment of the rent to differentiate the small tenants from the large holder. A new aid programme was implemented to enable direct rental aid to be granted to tenants. The management of the State Housing Plan is flexible and expedited, we greatly relax this plan in order to be able to provide coverage. The process of documentary verification and requirements for access to aid programmes was speeded up. It was ordered to advance the amounts of the state plan to the autonomous communities so that they could have money to take action. A programme of direct support for victims of gender-based violence, evictions, homelessness and particularly vulnerable persons is also included, and the purchase of housing with support from the plan by public administrations and entities is also possible, and a guarantee line has been established with State guarantee - interest paid by the State - to cover the payment of up to six months' rent. We've extended all of this. In other words, in theory, there should be no evictions out of default; in the same way that when people tell me that they do not understand competences but that they cut off the light, I have to tell them that this is another measure that was also raised, that approved and adopted this Government to avoid energy cuts also to families out of default of both light and water. All these measures have been taken since the beginning of the crisis and are still in force because we are renewing them. As to why a housing law and why haste, I will tell you that the market is as it is; no one knows very well what the rental market is like. There may be specific cases, but it is impossible to have a diagnosis in this pandemic situation. But I'm telling you, a measure that affects private property needs the guarantees of a law. We are not worth any decree because, if so, we would no longer be considering the constitutionality of what was approved in Catalonia, we would be considering the constitutionality of what was approved here, and because we want to shield and be effective to this extent we need a law, and what better than the one we already have at hand, which is the Housing Act. Finally, because I have thirty-five seconds left, I don't give the message to stop people from the State Security Forces and Corpses. With all due respect, they are officials; they are not the ones mandated to make any evictions; they are the instruments of which the law provides for intervention. I'm sure a lot of them don't like it at all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and cooperation to prevent the grave aftermath of the image of the Kingdom of Spain in the outside world. [[File number 172/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u153	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on actions by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation to prevent the serious deterioration of the image of the Kingdom of Spain abroad. Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning. Minister, this parliamentary group is calling on you today to determine your degree of responsibility for the deterioration in the image of Spain in the world and to urge you to resume the course urgently before the damage caused to our country is irreparable. Almost ten months ago this terrible pandemic began and since then Spain has been leading the worst international rankings. We are one of the countries with the highest number of infected, the country with the worst number of infected people in the world, the country with the highest number of infected health care workers in the world, the country with the worst purchases of health supplies and whose reserves remain unrenewed by the absolute incapacity of the Minister of Health, the country leading youth unemployment and the country with the worst forecast of economic recovery, despite the draft budgets that you have presented, which is incredible. All this might seem, minister, to be alien to him, but it is not. You not only sit on the Council of Ministers and are therefore responsible for all your decisions, but in this critical situation for Spain you have decided to defend your Government rather than defend our country and here is the result: today we have external credibility in historical minimums. I will give you some examples - and I open quotes -: Spain fights against the second wave, which is once again the worst in Europe. The debate about what was wrong in the spring and how much fault the Government has is more relevant than ever. This is not a People's Party argument, this is the Financial Times of October 20, this very week. Spain is the first European country to get out of the million cases and continues to drift, doing nothing for its people or for its response to the pandemic or its image outside. This is also not an argumentary of the People's Party, it is the Guardian of October 21. - I open quotes -: Spain resorts to Europe to survive the worst recession. Food banks are overflowing with the tails of hunger. This is not an argumentary of the People's Party and it is not even a press clipping of when it ruled the People's Party, it is Le Monde in an article this very Monday. Minister, this is the image of Spain on the outside, this is an image for which you are responsible. The Government, that is, you, rejected the recommendations, took the measures late and took them wrong and, now, instead of assuming responsibilities, what they seek is to discharge these responsibilities on the others accusing us of disloyalty, of partisanship for not applauding the chaotic measures of this Government. Your story does not fit and Spain's reputation suffers due to the poor management of your Government, that is, of you in three fundamental areas, which also interrelate with each other. The first, the poor health management, which has placed Spain in the lead of the worst rankings of the pandemic, even in the second wave. The second, the lack of economic management that has affected key sectors, also for employment, such as tourism and hospitality, and the third, an institutional crisis caused by the actions that the government coalition has carried out abroad and that weaken the perception of our rule of law. I will start with the first, - I open quotes -: The Spanish government began the fight against the virus late, probably too late, they wrote in March and April German Der Spiegel, French Le Monde or the American New York Times. It is the international press, Minister, and not the People's Party, that says that they did not do their homework in time. They don't make the same mistake now. By not acting in time or by avoiding a bad image of Spain you recommended to the Erasmus to continue in Italy because there was no danger, you recommended to the Spaniards that, while there were 65 countries that imposed restrictions on travellers, they avoid non-urgent travel abroad. Why did he disobey the recommendations of the World Health Organization? We, who are a multilateralist country. Why did you decide not to do anything until more than 150 countries in the world had closed their borders with Spain? Not only did they not do their homework in time, but they did it wrong, improvising, changing their minds, generating chaos, uncertainty and insecurity within and outside our borders. The problem, Minister, is not that this happened a few months ago, it happened again yesterday. It is that yesterday they announced a state of alarm of six months, yesterday they modified it and today the president has come here, as if this were a Moroccan or Turkish souk, turning this House into a debate about: two months no, we offer you four. You don't think about the consequences of your decisions, you announce and then you see the reaction, and either rectify or pool the damage by holding others accountable. So it happened to them with the sanitary material purchased in China without air corridors, with the opening of borders - one day they opened them on July 15, then on June 21; total, we were only playing the most important tourist season of the year -; you announced committees of ghost experts or falsified the infected and deceased data they were offering. So little by little we have managed to move an unreliable country image, which no one believes. We have made sure that in each of the main rankings in Spain there is a small page-by-page call saying that the official figures are not credible and that, while the number of deaths can range from 30 000 to 60 000, the number of infected can be 1 million, 3 million or 5 million, without anyone in your government being able to argue or how or why. Minister, denying reality, transmitting false data, in addition to generating uncertainty, causes tremendous damage to the image and credibility of Spain. The responsibility is yours. I do not intend to be colorist or histrionic, as you say, I intend to point out that the management of this crisis has not been serious or responsible, as you also say. Secondly, I will go on to report the damage caused to the Spanish economy by the deterioration of our image among tourists and foreign investors, and open quotes: 'If anything has taught us the pandemic is that the price of not having the best at the wheel is too high'. This is not said by the PP, the New York Times says in a September 24 article referring to Spain. Our country has been experiencing the worst economic crisis since the end of the Civil War with terrible numbers of unemployment, a sharp fall in foreign investment and a collapse in the tourism sector, and none of this is beyond its responsibility. In fact, Exceltur asked him to unify the criteria that were passed on to foreign visitors travelling to Spain, such as the Spaniards travelling abroad, warning him in time that he could cause deep damage if he did not act promptly. You did the same thing as with the World Health Organization, you hated it. This government doesn't listen to him. From there the same tonic, a erratic succession of confused messages and arbitrary and contradictory decisions. As soon as they said they had defeated the virus and invited tourists to travel to our country as they announced unilateral border closures. As soon as they announced that quarantine was going to take place as it was reasoned that we would not even take the temperature, as it happens today. From the 'we have overcome the virus and we have to go out and enjoy' to the 'this second wave happens to us because we open before others', as you said. Minister, it is not so, this does not happen to us to open before others, this happens to us to open worse: without measures, without precautions and all on vacation. I'm not saying it, the latest report on Spain from the prestigious magazine The Lancet says it. Now, once the worst tourist season in our history is over, it is when his ministry announces that it is opening channels of conversation with the main broadcasters of tourists to Spain to open safe runners, and I ask him: What have these four months done, throughout the high season, why they did not start those conversations in July or June. The collapse of tourism accounts for 13% of gross domestic product, EUR 150 billion which could be saved from European funds. That's money that would be wealth of its own. They didn't do their homework in time, and that's not doing them right. This year is lost and much more after the recent announcement of the desperate prolongation of the state of alarm six months, which they asked - I insist - before yesterday, although today we do not know if it is four months or how many will be. The message they have sent abroad is very clear: do not come to Spain at Christmas or Holy Week; definitely do not make plans to come to Spain. The problem is that today they continue to generate uncertainty, they continue to generate chaos. And I ask you: What are you planning to do to help millions of foreign tourists return to Spain and trust our country again? The last point I would like to mention is the deterioration in the image of Spain vis-à-vis the international community and the European institutions, caused by the attacks on the rule of law - I am sorry -: transferring funds to the current Government of Spain is not responsible. I insist, minister, this is not said by the People's Party, a professor at the University of Munich says this in a Swiss newspaper. You should know that what happens in Spain transcends not only the media, but also the embassies, and they all echo the general cause against our constitutional system that your Government is doing. I confess to you that I understand that your vice president doesn't make it easy for you to interview the Financial Times, in the midst of negotiating European funds, threatening the European Union. Nor does it make it easy for him to make permanent attacks on the Crown. The European Commission or the Greek Group of the Council of Europe have expressed their concern at the deterioration of the rule of law in Spain. You interpreted these reports as a Commission endorsement of a vibrant democracy where the rule of law is fully respected, you said, and explained that what happens is that the opposition, that is, us, the People's Party was blocking the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. Again, Minister, you intended to deceive those who are no longer for deception and, directly, you were called by the European Commissioner to explain it to him. In Europe, it is a matter of concern that you have tabled a bill here with the support of your partner in government, who has the sole intention of making a baipás to the PP to appoint his judges, in the same way that you have appointed his attorney general; hence resolutions such as those we saw yesterday from the Prosecutor's Office on the Delcygate. In case there was not enough, they announce a state of alarm of six months of duration, something unprecedented in Europe, minister, and contrary to all the standards of a rule of law. It is not enough to stop processing, it requires immediate action to avoid putting the reception of European funds for reconstruction and resilience at risk. What are you planning to do in this area to reconstruct the image of Spain? I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. My parliamentary group, my party, the vast majority of Spaniards and many foreigners are deeply concerned about the economic, social, institutional and reputational deterioration that Spain is showing, and that is its responsibility. We urge you to act urgently to help restore credibility and confidence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u155	Mrs. Martínez Ferro, you have to finish, please, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u156	We could be in time to avoid not only institutional deterioration, but also the confidence of many international investors who have eyes on our country. Let yourself be helped, minister, and do not condemn Spain to save yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u158	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot go up to this rostrum to talk about any matter related to the pandemic without beginning by reminding the victims, without recalling their suffering and that of their loved ones and without recalling the example that so many citizens are giving in these months, who have offered health care to those who have suffered from the disease, who have ensured that our infrastructures continue to function, who have worked hard to ensure that we did not fail to have supplies of any basic goods, who are striving to make the school run smoothly. They all make the Spanish brand every day and from here I want to pay a great tribute to them. Every anonymous citizen who has worked hard, every professional who has continued to fulfill his obligation, every company that has continued his activity, every scientist who has continued to research in his laboratory, each of them and they have contributed to strengthening our image as a country. A stable country, a solid economy, a solidarity and diverse society; a country with great natural tourist attractions, with a unique historical and cultural heritage. The image of our agriculture, our gastronomy, our beaches, our natural parks... Ladies and gentlemen, that image of our country is a strong image, it is a positive image, but not because I say it, it is said by many serious, quantitative studies, with historical series that allow us to compare, like that of the Royal Elcano Institute, the last one we have known, based on more than 30,000 interviews conducted with people who create opinion in the world. Our image remains that of a country that has enormous strengths, some strengths that we must take advantage of. Your Honor, of course there have been critical chronicles of what has happened these months. We have had to deal with a pandemic, all the countries that do not live isolated from each other have gone through similar circumstances, and if we managed to manage the pandemic it has been thanks to the exchange of ideas and information and - believe me - the government this does not scare you. Look at you - I open quotes -: 'France is in a critical situation. Belgium and the Netherlands, hit hard.' - I close quotes. This is what The Economist says this week. - I open quotes -: 'Unstoppable reviews against the U.S. Administration for a slow and ineffective response to the pandemic'. - I close quotes. This is what The New York Times says about what has been going on in the United States in recent months. - I open quotes -: 'Internal reviews for the management of the pandemic' - Close quotes -. Yesterday the Frankfurter Allgemeine said about the situation in Germany. Do you really believe that all these countries: the United States, Germany, France, Belgium, have seen their brand image damaged because there have been criticisms and debates about the management of a health crisis of the proportions of which we are currently living? Really, Your Honor? [[Applauds]] Please, a little serious. The priority for the Government has been to manage the health crisis, the health of citizens first and foremost; also the economic and social crisis, by supporting businesses, by supporting workers, by supporting citizens, who have been hit by an unprecedented crisis in our recent history. And, frankly, much of it without the support of your parliamentary group. Crisis in Spain, crisis in Europe, crisis in the world, that's what we're experiencing. I do not know whether you have realized that this crisis is hitting us all and what it is about is not to criticize but to seek solutions. And, yes, the Government has also worked to give, outside our borders, an image of our country and of our efforts to get out of this crisis in line with reality, and those efforts have borne fruit. Here are the governments of our main tourist markets: Germany and the United Kingdom, which already regard the Canary Islands as a safe destination. Europe adopts common recommendations on borders, with epidemiological data disaggregated by regions and not only by countries, all with the leadership of Spain. Yes, Your Honor, the Government has worked hard on this, working, as it could not otherwise be, with autonomous communities and municipalities. And in order to make things clear, we have also had to use ourselves thoroughly to refute claims such as those made by its fellow Members of the European Parliament, who were trying to spread the idea that the government's intention was to disregard our rule of law, breach our constitutional rules, oppress and gag our citizens using the state of alarm for that purpose. Mrs Monserrat and Mr González Pons in the European Parliament know what I am talking about. Indeed, in order to combat this disloyalty of your group, to counter that idea of 'Spain was hell' - this is what these gentlemen in the European Parliament were saying - we also had to work for this government and, believe me, it would have been a lot easier for us if you and other groups in this House had not turned against it. It would have been much easier for us if, instead of turning to the European ambassadors to regret Spain's mismanagement of European funds, you had pulled your shoulder to build what is today the great European Reconstruction Fund, or frankly if you had started to work to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. Does it really seem to you that it brings something to the debate to use the term 'failed state' as I have had to hear from your mouth in this House? Do you really believe that the situation is not caused by the virus, but - I open quotes - 'by an erratic and secondary policy of a country without a north' - I close quotes - as you have dedicated yourselves to spreading on social networks? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain's image today is more than ever that of a country which is making social progress, which is implementing a new vital minimum income system, which adopts a climate change law, which promotes sustainable development and gender equality, which drives education as an engine of personal and social change. All this is also the image of Spain and the Government is in it. And it also gives this image of Spain our entire network of embassies and consulates, which through its 215 offices throughout the world have turned to explain the health security measures adopted in Spain, those of the government and those of the autonomous communities. And to this task of explaining our country has been dedicated in an exercise of patriotism all those who in these months have worked in the circumstances with their work and their example within and outside our borders. Ladies and gentlemen, the image of Spain is also that of the consensus that we can build and in these months the image has remained outside our borders that there were political forces maneuvering to erode the government. This is something that citizens do not deserve who have had exemplary behaviour during the crisis. It is not deserved by the voters of your party or by the voters of any party in this House. In short, the Government has not and will not fail to fulfil its responsibilities, what would probably be good is for you to consider fulfilling yours, because if there is something that harms our country, it is the enormous polarization and tension that you have contributed to impressing on Spanish political life. If you really want to contribute to our prestige, raise your shoulder a little more, strive to build consensus and stop visiting embassies asking the European Union not to give us the funds we need so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. García. Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, indeed I too want my first words - not my first, my second words - to be for the victims that this pandemic is having; a memory, first of all, of the deceased. Since we started this control session, which took us three hours, following yesterday's standards, eleven people would have died for every hour; that is, there are thirty-three people who died. This, Minister, is not a reason to congratulate, this is not a reason to breastfeed. Of course he's stopped serving the government! You've had seven months, minister, to prepare this second wave. This one did look like it was coming. We warned them and reached out to them. Today my president has done it again. During these months we have offered you a legal plan - today again - that avoids the state of alarm, a health pact, a battery of economic measures, everything to prevent and prepare us, and you, arrogant always, refuse to do anything constructive, neither health nor legislative or administrative, nor in foreign policy. What worries me, minister, is his inability to see reality, because that inability does not allow him to face it. I'm worried about your lack of self-criticism, minister. He believes that the problem of his external image is the People's Party and not his coalition partners is worrying, minister. This does not allow you to learn or improve and I am concerned that you also believe that the international press reflects something different from what the Government of Spain projects, because you have opened quotes and say examples of other things, but I say to you on October 7th: Spain, not Italy, is what concerns foreign investors. Bloomberg. Spain and not Italy. Spain is not being the rule, it is being the exception. There are other countries that took action on time, such as Portugal, Italy or France, our direct competitors in the tourism sector, which allowed them to go back to a difficult time in August and the tourist season. Spain did not; Spain created confusion, Spain created chaos. Mrs. Laya, do you really think you can be proud of your work? Do you really believe that you have performed your duties correctly? Do you really think you can tell the Spaniards, after the seven months they've been doing, that all we can think about is starting over again? But have you seen what the rest of the European countries are doing with the second wave of pandemics and what the Spanish Government is doing? The rest of the countries of the European Union approve restrictions for a maximum of one month, and this Government intends to adopt a state of alarm of six months and a state of alarm without parliamentary control, ending legal security, health measures and destroying the spirits and hopes of the Spaniards and their economic recovery. [[Applauds]] But is it really believed that this has no impact on credibility and external trust? You have created a group of experts to improve the reputation of Spain, minister. You will recognize me at least that this means that you are aware that that reputation is damaged. This is not something invented by the People's Party. Tell that group of experts that they do not have to invent anything, that they read the reports, that of The Lancet, who has made a specific report on the Spanish situation. A few days ago you yourself recognized CNN, who told you that nothing we had done had worked and that what they were planning to do now, and you were silent, didn't know what to answer, minister. The problem with the image of Spain abroad is that it is neither credible nor serious nor reliable. I have not come here to just reproach you, of course not; I have come here to reach out to you, to help you and to make proposals because we need to restore democratic exemplaryness, we need to prepare for the arrival of European funds, and that is why we have proposed the creation of a professional and independent agency, away from lobbyists within and outside the government. We need to help them restore an image of Spain as a reliable and safe destination and origin. We want to work together, minister, to begin the recovery and repair of the wounds that you have left on the brand Spain. We have a responsibility to show the best possible image of Spain, the image of an authentic Spain, of a free country, without fears, democratic, a country open to the world and which has a privileged geostrategic position, but that must be done without agitation and without propaganda, minister. You know, like me, that we need to rebuild Spain's image and prestige abroad to rebuild our economy, so there will be no recovery without the other. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u161	Mrs. Martinez, your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u162	Thank you very much, President. Humbly, Your Honor, I believe your group has built its own Matrix reality. The image that you have of our country is not that of the community institutions or international organizations, our friendly partners, or international tourists, who continue to come to Spain. And as a sample, a button, there are those who have already decided to come and spend their holidays in the Canary Islands. Nor are our citizens. You regret that our image is bad, but you have not been working to improve it. I don't know very well if you're sorry or happy, I don't know very well if you want to turn off an alleged fire or gas. They offer themselves as firefighters, but, frankly, they have pyromaniac attitudes. Spain is no exception to the second wave, Your Honor. Unfortunately, the second wave has already put us in the queue of the countries most affected by it, and I say unfortunately because in this all the European countries are in the same boat. Our rule of law, to which you referred, is strong and solid, has a strong constitutional basis and - they are not mistaken - our strengths have been reflected in the most recent report of the European Commission this October, report, by the way, drawn up with the full cooperation of the Government of Spain, with light and stenographers. And yes, as reflected in this report, it is regrettable that the constitutional mandate for the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary is not being fulfilled. The reason is that its political group, which is also worth that mandate, has refused consensus; it has been doing so for two years and this is also a constitutional mandate. Frankly, this does not seem to me to be showing signs of striving for the Spanish brand. Ladies and gentlemen, patriotism is everyone's business. The image of this country we build among all, is the responsibility of both the Government and its parliamentary group. I am pleased with the expression of your willingness to cooperate. There will be three moments in the coming weeks when this will for cooperation will be put to the test: the adoption of the state of alarm, the instrument that all countries in our environment are using to fight the pandemic; the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and the approval of the General Budgets of the State. [[Applauds]] I look forward to the cooperation of your parliamentary group. I look forward to the willingness of your ladies and gentlemen to make these three fundamental issues on our political agenda come true. Try not to give reason to Antonio Machado in that in Spain of every ten heads, nine invade and one thinks. Add to the effort, add to the consensus, that our image as a country and our citizens will benefit from this. Today more than ever they expect - they deserve it - that we are up to what they have been up to. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u164	We then proceeded to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals that were not made at yesterday's sitting. Motion resulting from an urgent call by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for the Government to explain the fiscal measures it is tackling to deal with the sharp increase in spending announced. Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u165	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This motion we are presenting today is a consequence of the urgent inquiry into the Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero. The minister the other day only dedicated herself to criticizing the People's Party rather than telling us about its projects, proposals, estimates and reasons for doing what they are going to do. He even had the nerve to criticize the measures of the People's Party to get out of the previous crisis, after the management disaster of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's government and to leave us a country in ruins about to be rescued and about to be the cause of the destruction of the European project. We are going to discuss today, as our motion says, four vital issues for the future of our country: the commitment to fiscal sustainability, taxes, public spending and the management of recovery funds, although, as we go, they will rather be reconstruction. Spain had already lost more than 100 000 companies in August, almost 7 % of the total. According to the Banco de España, 25% of Spanish companies are in a state of technical bankruptcy and, according to a study by McKinsey, 55% of Spanish companies will be shut down in September 2021 if things continue as they have so far and 70% will close if they get worse. Firstly, the commitment to fiscal sustainability. By the way, the minister the other day was telling us about the effect called. Are you saying that we cannot discuss your measures here so as not to harm Spain? What avoids investment in Spain is not our debates, which should be seen as enriching if they heard something from the opposition, what harms Spain is the results of the economic policy of the Government and the forecasts, which put us at the back of Europe and the developed countries. That is what is harming Spain: you, gentlemen of the Government and of the other groups who are supporting it. The criticisms and proposals of our parliamentary group are not made to destroy, they are made to build. We want you to see that we have to do it in another way, that must be done in another way, because in a crisis as devastating as this, when we have not yet recovered from the previous one, how we do it will have a significant impact on the future of many Spaniards. And here is the issue of public debt, a debt that is going to exceed 125% of GDP in a very conservative estimate by the government and that must be set at 60%, as required by the European Union and our own legislation. With the data from the government's forecasts, we must reduce it by EUR 712 billion and we must do this in two decades at most, two decades in which we will be at risk because we will have less ability to manoeuvre in the face of a new crisis and two decades in which we will have to grow and generate surpluses in public accounts in order to reduce this volume. If we do not grow enough, we will not be able to spend what is necessary to cover all public services. Here's the other risk. That is why we say that it will influence what we do today in the future of many Spaniards: young people, pensioners, public investment, technological innovation, the fight against climate change and unpopulated Spain. This is all at risk. We are here and other groups I know that too. That is why, gentlemen of the Government and of the groups that support it, what do you expect? This has already been said by the AIReF on two occasions: the exceptional nature of the law entails the obligation to implement medium-term rebalancing plans while preserving the sustainability of public accounts. Secondly, taxes. Taxes are used to collect and the State covers its financial needs. You can collect more by raising taxes and also lowering them, and, on the contrary, you can collect less by raising them and lowering them. The important issue is that you are a tool of fiscal policy; that is, with taxes you influence economic activity, and you intend to collect more with a fiscal policy that discourages economic activity. It's not reasonable. But you're not in it. For you taxes are an ideological weapon and, therefore, they are capable of harming the activity in order to sell their ideology. We do not tell them to lower taxes on pure whim, but because at the moment we have to help some sectors that are suffering a lot. Next year, when the pandemic is over, we must boost economic activity and tax cuts do, and the consequence is that in the end more will be collected, as we saw in the years 2015 and 2016. Thirdly, public expenditure. The other day my partner Carolina Spain said: spend more yes, but above all spend well, with productive investments; that is, the free bar cannot be confused with waste, as was the Plan E of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. We are in favour of leaving no one behind, of protecting the people who are suffering this crisis, our self-employed and our businesses, is that we need them, but that growth in spending is not even meeting that goal, there are many people without income and without coverage. Ask Caritas or food banks; we talk about millions of people. There are many self-employed and many companies that have already closed and others that are going to do so in the coming months; we are talking about hundreds of thousands. And why? Because the aim of this government is only to spend more; that cannot be the goal. We must be effective and efficient in the measures and cover all those affected and all economic sectors, and that, unfortunately, is not being done. And, lastly, the management of recovery funds. We are afraid, a rational fear based on the experience of its management, on the negotiation of the previous and current CAP, on the management of European funds and aid. We therefore call for professional and independent management of these funds. We need them to be managed well and so far the socialist governments have not shown that they can do so. Nor can we trust the other side of the government because they are at other things. The forecasts of your budget plan are not going to be met, your income forecasts are not credible. They plan to raise more income by raising only revenues of more than €300,000 than in 2019, when they were raising incomes of more than €130,000, and more in this current situation. All analysts say so; the AIReF, the Banco de España, which raises almost three more deficit points for the year 2021, and a prestigious private one, such as BBVA, which raises three points less growth than its estimates for the next year. And the AIReF and Banco de España warned of the possibility of worsening before the new six-month state of alarm. In view of the clumsiness of the data, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the Socialist Party, we are going to reach an agreement between all of us for the maintenance of public accounts. They use taxes not as an ideology, but to promote growth. Don't waste and leave no one behind, and leave the management of recovery funds in the hands of independent professionals. The future of millions of Spaniards depends on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Paniagua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. If there is always a need for an initiative to try to contain expenditure when a socialist government is at the head of the public finances, another priority must be added on this occasion: to stop the coming fiscal riada and to alleviate the impacts and serious collateral damage for all Spaniards. This motion also serves to remind us that the European Union has already warned of the great imbalance of our public accounts and of indebtedness, which will drag us into impoverishment. Much to our regret, the Government is already achieving this; it is enough to see the unemployment figures, which increase with the pandemic, but that already last year, without coronavirus, they began to be worrying. Ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday I was left alone, and to great honor, voting against the measures of the Government contained in the Royal Decree-Law to apply with impunity and on my back Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution and the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, but if the data do not fail me, I am also, together with Mrs Oramas, the only Member of the current House who voted against the constitutional reform in September 2011, an express reform of unforgettable memory, especially for those who denied it, with which Rodriguez Zapatero ended his economic disaster, subsequently corrected by the Rajoy Government, which applied to the priority, no less than to reduce the spending burden, combat the public deficit that had ruined us and revitalized economic activity with the recovery of employment after the colossal black economic and political hole and the unbearable legacy of three and a half million unemployed product of that sombre period of socialist government that ended in 2011. By the way, the budgetary law of Montoro and those of whom we support it, and which the two parties that make up the current government, socialists and communists, voted against, is still in force three years later, although since yesterday the Government is trying to replace it with a draft law on the general budgets of the State which obliges the General Courts to a counter-clockwise, hasty and asphyxiating processing, all to take advantage of the shameful and shameful manifesto signed last week and which they have entitled In favor of democracy, but which is the re-edition of the shameful political support received for the investiture of Pedro Sánchez and the co-president Iglesias at the beginning of January; a proposal for public accounts that will lead Spain to an unsustainable deficit, further affected by the collapse of economic activity and the consequent breakdown of the revenue, as already seen in the current financial year 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, of no less concern are the tax measures that were explained yesterday after the meeting of the Council of Ministers and that pursue an additional collection of EUR 7134 million, of which the bulk, almost EUR 5 billion, will be entered in 2021 and the rest in the 2022 financial year, when the tax rates to which the new tax measures will affect are settled, without counting the 3000 million in revenue derived from so-called non-tax revenues and derived from public taxes and prices. All will be paid for by the Spaniards, many of whom today close their business, because yes, the economy sinks because of the collateral effects of the pandemic, but also because of the direct effects of the disastrous task of the government, which has twenty-two ministries, the most nourished composition of democracy. It calls on the government to sacrifice its citizens, but our ministers have been surrounded by positions and trusting 'burdens', which have triggered spending along with the gigantic structure created around the executive. I conclude, Madam President. In short, the calamity under the presidency of Pedro Sánchez, who has been ruling for two and a half years, continues no longer to drip, but to run, when Spain has returned to its path, to economic distress, exacerbated by the worst managed health emergency in the world: brutal deficit, crazy debt, unsustainable unemployment, gallop taxation and investors who do not cut the phone. This is the updated balance sheet of the macro-government PSOE-Podemos, backward and out of control. That is why I will support the measures that Mr Paniagua has just defended. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u169	Thank you very much. Someone says that the political position is fundamentally built through the approach or positions from which the problem or reality is observed, and I believe that this initiative of the People's Party exemplifies it well, and I do not say it in a pejorative spirit or anything like that. I believe that the motion of the People's Party sees the approach proposed by the neoliberal political positions and the ones we put from the left; it even sees that words that are apparently neutral and that would have to mean the same for all and can all be interpreted differently depending on the place or prism from which reality is observed. They speak in their initiative of commitment to fiscal sustainability and rebalancing and, in principle, it is difficult to disagree that there is sustainability in the measures being implemented and that, in addition, they guarantee a certain fiscal rebalancing. But, of course, when you manifest this, you propose to return to what you call sustainability and fiscal rebalancing that were the policies of the People's Party. There are just a few examples; during those years of neoliberal expansion, of neoliberal economic policies, what was achieved was that the richest 10% concentrated more wealth than the remaining 90% - data from 2008 from Intermón Oxfam -; that the three richest people in the Spanish state - of the over one hundred million that the Spanish state has - had more wealth than 30% of the Spanish population - data from another report of 2019-; or even - according to a report also from Oxfam of the year 2020 - that inequality continues to grow. So where is fiscal rebalancing?, where is the sustainability of a system that condemns the majority to have fewer resources than a tiny minority?, where is the balance between the generation of economic wealth and the generation of wealth for society? In its economic policies it is not, never is, there is always a concentration of wealth in few hands. It is good for you to have a lot of wealth in one territory to determine that that territory is already rich, when in reality what happens in that territory is that wealth accumulates in so few hands that it does not reach the rest. But one of the elements that influences this reality has to do, for example, with the renunciation of a tax increase or the abolition of tax subsidies. And here really the literature is not neutral because you propose that tax increases and tax subsidies be renounced, while you ask the state to continue to provide money to companies to continue to sustain their activity. And where does that money come from? Who feeds Dad State? Only the workers, while the entrepreneurs benefit from an a la carte taxation, a tax a la carte subsidy, a tax paradise like Madrid, which is what Madrid has become with its subsidies until the total tax exemption for large companies? And then where does the money they now claim come from to deal with this pandemic-derived situation? Following the example of Madrid, in what has this total tax subsidy for the Madrid companies helped the citizens of the Community of Madrid, if what they have seen is that their health was impoverished, if what they have seen is that their health went to the garage and there were no resources to care for them with the dignity they deserve? That's where we see the economic model. But they also say that tax increases and the abolition of tax subsidies must also be renounced because of their limited budgetary impact. What about social justice? Wouldn't it be necessary to keep them even for social justice, even if the impact was less, like many other things that are done? Or is it that social justice becomes a secondary derivative? Moreover, they say that this would delay economic recovery and job creation and that this is the vicious circle of the economy. Really for us and ourselves the vicious circle is to believe that public money is for everyone regardless of what they put in. What would have to be fair is that those who have the most put on and then redistribute. That's the tax equidistribution you probably don't want to talk about. But they say more, they talk about suppressing duplication and superfluous spending. And in reality there is no reason to disagree with this assertion, they even speak - and exemplify it - of the reduction of the Council of Ministers. I have no problem reducing it to twenty-four. But there is a logic in which we are certainly in complete disagreement because when you talk about reducing duplication, you probably believe that the remaining ones are the autonomous communities. I believe that the ministries are left with them, since the transfer of competences is extensive and the autonomous communities themselves could act against it. But let me give you a clearer example, if one lives in the region of Europe with a higher rate or ratio of police per inhabitant, if one has a body of his own with more than 12 000 agents, between those of the Basque Autonomous Community and those of the Foral Community of Navarre, plus local police, what are the more than 3000 agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses, if the safety of citizens is already guaranteed because we are three points above in Euskadi and Navarre, 6.9 against the 3.4 of the European Union? Without a doubt, there they can reduce expenses. And they end up ensuring independent professional management to create high value-added jobs. What is high value added employment? Is it giving Iberdrola money to fire 15% of the staff? Is it giving money to entrepreneurs to continue to impoverish workers?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u170	Mr. Matute, I'm sorry, but you're running out of time. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u171	Thank you, President. Egun on. We are debating here today a motion by the People's Group on the fiscal measures the Government has planned to address the increase in spending that they have been announcing. The truth is that this motion is very similar to other motions and other GNPs already debated in September, although they refer to the measures taken by the Government to revive the economy, but the truth is that there are some points in this motion where the Government is urged to take the same measures. It is curious that what has already been rejected by the majority of the groups in this Congress is being requested once again. Having said that, we are going to vote against because we do not agree with most of the points set out in the motion, except the last one, in which we could agree to be more of a guiding principle, as they call for independent and professional management of European recovery funds in collaboration with the autonomous communities and municipalities - I say guiding principle because they do not specify absolutely anything or how or who -; funds that we also believe should be used to implement investments and reforms, of course, transformative to consolidate strong and sustainable growth and not, as we have seen requested in some PNLs, to compensate for the impact of the COVID of some administrations. With regard to point two of the motion, in which they call for the application of Article 11.3 of the Stability Act, which includes a realistic path to deficit targets and levels of public debt, because I do not know whether they have been informed or not wanted to know, since last week, with their abstention, the assessment was adopted that Spain is suffering a pandemic, that we are in an extraordinary emergency situation, and therefore apply the constitutional provision to overcome the structural deficit and the volume of public debt reflected, inter alia, in Article 11.3, in line with the temporary suspension of the principle of budgetary stability agreed by Europe. And of course this does not mean that each administration is not going to commit to fiscal responsibility, or is it that we are saying that municipalities, autonomous communities and administrations are going to act irresponsibly? We believe that in the long term it will be necessary to design and communicate a multi-annual fiscal consolidation plan, but we also believe that such implementation will have to be postponed until the crisis has been left behind and, in this regard, we believe that the increase in public debt in the short term cannot be called into question in order to cope with the economic and social crisis resulting from the COVID. Moreover, a strategy of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation will be needed, which will require an increase in income and a reduction in expenditure, whether we like it or not, and that must also be said. As regards the issue of reducing public expenditure in the light of the results of the spending review carried out by the AIReF, it is true that the AIReF has, in fact, carried out an analysis of different programmes and has issued a number of proposals which, if necessary, will have to be examined by the Government in order to proceed with the modification or improvement of the programmes. He has already announced that these results will be incorporated into the General Budgets of the State - we will see it today - but at no time has he made any study of the structure of the Government and at no time recommends anything in this regard. Of course, our group is not going to question whether this structure of the Government is of greater or lesser expenditure. On the recurring issue of taxes, it must obviously be made clear that the public spending that is being put forward to overcome the crisis will need an ambitious fiscal policy, and it is true that a tax reform that will have to be addressed because, frankly, only with measures to combat tax fraud or tax increases on certain incomes will not be enough. And, on the contrary, we cannot talk about tax cuts in this situation either because it is unrealistic, because with a tax reduction it is difficult to maintain the welfare state's social spending or to change or modify this economic model. We believe that it is time for expansionary policies that are certainly not in conflict with budgetary discipline and, as we say, fiscal reforms, controls on the effectiveness and efficiency of public policies, control of tax fraud, but from a calm and studied debate and not from a fiscal populism in one sense or another; that is, in a simplistic sense of lowering or raising taxes. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u173	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the most important budgets of democracy. These budgets of national salvation must be the formula to protect our SMEs, our self-employed, our workers and the families from the terrible economic crisis that is already looming over us. These country accounts must be a lifesaver for the business and productive fabric of Spain as long as we take measures as harsh as the current ones to keep saving lives, because we have to keep the ERTE as an alternative resource to mass redundancies, since where an ERTE is paid, unemployment is not paid and, moreover, the job is kept alive; we also have to keep the benefits for self-employed, those who create wealth and employment and who are so badly going through this crisis. We must be aware that our excesses today will be the debts of our children tomorrow. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must spend the money we need to maintain employment, to help those who need it with minimum living income, to help our families, to support our businesses while these health restrictions are being applied. Yes to everything, for that is the state and solidarity between Spanish, for this we pay the taxes. And also because we do not have to choose between one thing and another, we say yes to the rebalancing plan presented by this motion to mark the future path of deficit reduction, diverted by the pandemic; yes to spend everything that is needed, but not a penny unnecessary; yes to reduce inefficient duplication; yes to rationalize political spending and superfluous spending in line with the provisions of the AIReF and CORA; yes to fight tax fraud and corruption practices. Yes, in short, to do everything possible before raising taxes to the Spanish and putting it more difficult to the companies, which are already with the water around their necks. This, ladies and gentlemen, should be the last resort. He said earlier that there is no choice between helping workers and businesses in a limited situation or acting responsibly for future generations. The key lies in the European funds with which the European Union has decided to help each of its members. It is, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 140 billion that must be taken care of carefully, even before they arrive. Hence, the importance that the Socialist Party and We can withdraw its scandalous judicial counter-reform to redouble the politicization of the General Council of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, if we invest European aid well, we will be able to move forward. There is enough money to pay ERTE, for self-employment benefits, for family support and minimum living income. In addition, the Government is again late with an aid plan for sectors and companies that are having to close their businesses or see their activity reduced as a result of health restrictions. If there is political will, it can and must be done, and in Citizens we will continue to fight and demand from the Government to help those who create wealth and employment, who are today with water around their necks. We must seize the opportunity, we must manage head-on, rigorously, putting aside the political ideology, thinking about the well-being and future of the citizens, undertaking the reforms that the Socialist Party and the People's Party have had in the drawer for a very long time. So, yes, we play the future of the future generations of the Spaniards. National emergency budgets is what we have on the table and we know that the more citizens work to improve those accounts, the less they will paint on them those who do not believe in our country. It is therefore a moral obligation for us to sit down and negotiate for the good of the Spaniards, trying to avoid the economic nonsense of Podemos offering an alternative way to the government to choose moderate, serious and rigorous accounts with Citizens or, on the contrary, accounts made from sectarianism, with territories of first and second and with privileges for those who only want the worst for Spain. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. In Citizens we know well what would have been Spain without that deficit path and the spending ceiling in the 2008 crisis. We understand, as it cannot be otherwise, the exceptional situation we are experiencing and that emergency funds are for emergencies. Spanish families and workers are waiting for our help and all they need is to see how European funds are being squandered with concessions to Republican Esquerra or Bildu. We therefore thank you for the initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, and we hope that you too will understand that, at a time like this, responsibility on the part of all and, of course, for Citizens is not going to remain. We're going to leave our skin for the Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u175	Thank you, Madam President, for a minute. What the People's Party proposes to us are the old failed neoliberal recipes that have already been applied in the social and economic crisis of 2008 and that have generated poverty, precariousness, social exclusion and a brutal increase in inequalities. As a result, not all came out of the crisis poorer; on the contrary, the rich came out richer at the cost of the suffering of the majority. Again here we have them achieving deficit and debt targets instead of worrying about the employment, wages or living conditions of the social majorities that make up the popular classes, the workers, or with the mantra of not raising taxes. Yes, we have to raise them, the rich, the big fortunes and the big corporations. And it is true that the government is short on yesterday's announcements, but that is the line and it seems that the People's Party does not like it because it is clear what interests it defends, not those of the social majority, but those of a privileged minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u176	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u177	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paniagua, we are going to vote against this initiative, and I will try to explain it to you. Of the four points you have made, the first is to maintain a commitment to financial stability, which we agree with. I believe that this compromise has been expressed repeatedly by the same minister over the past few weeks. I have asked for it myself in the various commissions and appearances. But it is true that they then propose to adopt a plan with realistic deficit and public debt targets. We are in the midst of a crisis, another state of alarm is going to be adopted, we do not know how the health situation will result and consequently the social and economic situation. Frankly, can anyone today make a realistic plan for the evolution of the deficit and public debt in the short term? Well, if we're honest, no one can do it. And should it be done? It will have to be done when this crisis is over or it is about to end and we will have the solution to the health crisis, but, if not, we will be the first, and I assume that you will then be calling for economic measures that will have a budgetary cost; more action will have to be taken when the crisis becomes more acute. Therefore, this approach does not seem realistic to us. It is necessary, but in the short term this conversion plan is impossible. Second - textual - question: to renounce any increase in taxes. We do not agree, we do not want a general increase in taxes, but to renounce any increase in taxes... I don't know if other colleagues have told you, I'll remind you. What did the People's Party do when it arrived at the government in a situation of economic crisis? They didn't give up any tax hikes, they didn't. For example, I sincerely say that when the Socialist Party and Podemos suggested that the exemption from health and private education from value added tax would be abolished, we told them that they would not find us here because in this situation it is a serious mistake. Now, between this and giving up any tax hike, we honestly don't think it's realistic. With regard to eliminating duplication or unnecessary costs. Who can disagree with this statement? No one. Now, when you put at the same point, in a similar way or as an example, what was done with the reform of the CORA, then we have already lost any kind of tune. The CORA was a great marketing operation of Minister Montoro that was done without any consequence and in an absolutely disrespectful way with the autonomous and municipal competences. In any case, we will vote against this initiative. Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u179	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. We are here to discuss this motion by the People's Group on the economic policies of the Government, but first a previous issue. This morning the sewers of the state attack again in Catalonia. This morning, people are being arrested who the only crime they have committed is being independent, is being dissidence, because we believe nothing of a Civil Guard that lies and fabricates false evidence against innocent people, as demonstrated in the trial against Major Trapero. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Of course, we are going to vote against this umpteenth motion with which they intend - to say so in some way - to bring the PP's prescriptions on how to get out of this economic crisis produced by the COVID-19 pandemic. We vote against because we already know what the recipes of the right and the PP are to get out of the economic crises: cut public spending, apply austerid and centrifuge laws that drown the middle and working classes of society. There is nothing more to see than the laws of Montoro that they passed, with which they cut the margin of the autonomous communities and the municipalities to unabated limits to make useful policies for the people. And what about their tax reforms, which penalize the middle and working classes and benefit big companies, companies and big fortunes. At the second point of the motion you are literally defending: to renounce any rise in taxes or to abolish tax benefits. The question is very simple: how do you plan to do it?, how do you plan to finance the increase in public spending, for example, in health, which is very necessary today?, how do you do it? It is necessary to raise taxes, but not to the working classes and the self-employed, but to the big companies and fortunes, to the speculative economy. There is a need to strengthen the fight against the circumvention and tax evasion of large fortunes and, to that end, the resources earmarked for this purpose must be increased. But it is clear that you are not interested in this because you will never vote against your own class interests. The right will never move a finger to end the privileges of the economic elites who have benefited for years and years at the expense of the BOE. You are also talking about eliminating superfluous government spending. We agree, we can start, for example, by cutting the defence budget by 40% or eliminating the budget lines of the Royal House. You see, it is a matter of priorities and we will always bet on prioritizing social investment over other expenses. The crisis, as you know, is gnawing in the working classes of the country, in the small self-employed and in the SMEs. Many of them don't know if next week or next month they're going to lift the blinds again. Many of them don't know if they're going to have to throw out their workers. In this context, we need to implement countercyclical expansionary policies that increase public spending. In exceptional times, exceptional measures. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u181	Thank you, President. We are faced with an unprecedented situation, with the most serious health, economic and social crisis in our recent history, and the People's Group does not seem to be interested or aware of it. The only thing that concerns him, as always, is budgetary balance and financial sustainability. And I wonder where life's sustainability is. Have you thought about it? How are we going to build a network, a social shield, that cushions at least the damage and suffering of so many people who have been hit and who are going to continue to be hit by this crisis? How do we sustain and protect the lives of millions of people? You, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, do not want to take off the black suit, with this kind of initiative we continue to remind the troika that, during the toughest years of the previous crisis, it came to oversee all the administrations and applauded the policies of cuts implemented by the government of Mr Rajoy. The People's Party once again insists on the dogmas of neoliberal politics that have caused so much damage in this country and again raises prescriptions that have already been failed, because when the People's Party is talking about budgetary balance it is actually talking about cutting public spending, spending on health, spending on education, spending on equality, so that the accounts can be squared, because what you are not going to do is take away and subtract fiscal privileges from the richest, the most wealthy. [[Mr Paniagua Núñez's refusals]] These policies of the People's Party have built a polarized country where inequality has grown and grown. In the last decade, Spain has become the second country in the European Union where inequality has grown the most, up to twenty times above the European Union average, but on the other hand in our country the rich have become superrich. By 2016, 1% already owned a quarter of the wealth of this country, while the poorest 20% only owns 0.1% of this wealth. Is this the country you want? Is that the society they aspire to? Well, there, gentlemen of the People's Party, you'll find us in front of you. Our choice is quite different: to strengthen the public, to rethink our welfare state to build a new model of universal social protection of quality, avant-garde and at the height of the challenges of the twenty-first century, and all this accompanied, how not - because it cannot be otherwise - by greater fiscal justice. This is the way we are going and some important steps have already been taken. I'll remind you of some of them. Not many days ago, it was approved in Congress - without its support - the elimination of fiscal rules and the establishment of an expenditure ceiling of almost 200 billion euros, an unprecedented spending limit to deal with a global health crisis with devastating effects; therefore, an exceptional expenditure to deal with a truly exceptional situation. I will also remind you of the Government's Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which already indicates the Government's intention to move towards a new economic model; a more inclusive, sustainable and value-added-generating economic model. And this model begins to be built with the next General State Budgets, the preliminary draft has just been approved in the Council of Ministers. These budgets inaugurate a new economic stage, leaving behind, at last, the neoliberal stage marked by austerity and cuts. [[The Lord]] There is a plural majority in this House that supported the investiture of the coalition government and that we believe will support this move towards a new, more progressive model. We are therefore opening the door to new budgets that are going to improve, for example, the system of care for dependence, that are going to bet on a system of care, that are going to make equal opportunities a reality, and everything is going to be accompanied - of course - by a tax justice. So I encourage you, gentlemen of the PP, to finally take off that black suit, which is already very ugly and very worn out. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u182	Thank you so much. Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u183	Thank you, President. The Government approved an increase in the unprecedented expenditure in the economic history of Spain, 53.7%. On this basis, not on any other basis, he bases his fanciful forecasts of growth, employment, consumption, investment and collection made in his budget plan for 2021. How could we not have thought before, ladies and gentlemen, of the happy idea that it is enough to shoot the expenditure of the State to solve all the economic problems of Spain? That is, primitive Keynesianism and Cañí. In order for the accounts to be released, the Government estimates a public spending multiplier of 1.2 in 2021 and 2 in specific expenditures, such as digital, decarbonization of the economy and investment in R & D+i. In this way the economy will grow - according to the Government - by 7.2% by 2021 and the potential GDP will increase by 4 or 5 tenths. However, this exercise of alchemy, ladies and gentlemen, is a fallacy, it is false. According to the Bank of Spain's estimates, the tax multiplier that would have been reduced by 35% between 1985 and 2015 - from 1.2 to 0.78 - will be reduced by another 21%, from 0.78 to 0.62 in the coming years. In other words, the cost of spending raised by Mrs Montero and her alchemists is higher than the benefits she provides. This throws down the entire macroeconomic picture of the Government by the year 2021. [[Applauds]] In a kunderane'softness of being' the very figures that the Government offers are contradictory to each other. One of the best examples of the reality of this Government's public accounts is the heading for unemployment benefits. The Executive estimates it to be 19 billion by 2020, just 3.4 billion more than before the pandemic, when its own forecasts are an increase in the unemployment rate of 3 points; from the 14.1 with which 2017 closed to 17.1 with which it will close this year. They choose, ladies and gentlemen, between one and the other, because the two at the same time are totally incompatible. Simple math, which our spokesman would say. Against this backdrop, the debt deficit targets announced are unattainable. Thus, Dr. Montero has only two possible therapies on the short-term horizon. The first therapy, making the financing of their disorbitant spending plans rest on debt issuance, which means relying on external generosity to pay for their management. This task must be done by the European Central Bank and the markets, which must be prepared to continue buying Spanish sovereign bonds, one without conditions for indefinite time and without limit of quantity, and the other without requiring a higher risk premium, in plan Santa Teresa de Calcutta. This constitutes, as the illustrious Larry Summers described, a financial balance of terror, because it rests the maintenance of Spain's solvency on factors that a government cannot control, which constitutes a very serious exercise of irresponsibility. Second therapy: raise taxes, because the tax figures you have announced so far, including today's, lack the collection power to cover expenditure needs such as those that your Government intends to address. The only one in Europe that increases taxation in a scenario of a mixed crisis of supply and demand is Spain. It is not necessary to be a Nobel Prize in Economics to know that in times like the present, an increase in taxes and expenditure only serves to sharpen the decline in GDP and to delay the exit from the crisis. As a result, they will raise less and aggravate the dramatic situation of public finances and the misery of the Spaniards. On the other hand, the manna of European recovery funds is not going to give to the government or to pipe. In this context, even the Government knows that this is absolutely unsustainable. We are on Dante's seventh centenary and you, in tribute to the eximio poet, have hung at the door of companies, families, investors, the unemployed and Spanish society a sign that in black letters says: Forget all hope those who enter here. The national economy has no chance of overcoming the crisis while you rule with your ideological blindness. There is only one alternative to its chaotic flight forward: a medium-term fiscal consolidation plan, based on the simultaneous reduction of spending and taxes, accompanied by a programme of structural reforms aimed at making the economy more flexible and strengthening the institutions, the only way in which we will guarantee the well-being of the Spaniards. We will therefore support this motion. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u184	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u185	VOX Members applaud and stand up to speak and also when they are done. It's not a show, we're in the middle of a pandemic. There are two different ways of opposing it: the constructive, responsible and state-minded one, and the destructive one, which is the one you have chosen, generating mistrust and uncertainty, reaching such a level as to hinder the European negotiation of EUR 140 billion so that you do not reach our country and the majority of citizens. You are one of those who sinks Spain that we will already save it. You sell some recipes and, when you rule, apply others. If you don't want to, really, don't tie your shoulder, but step aside, don't bother, that we get caught working. They question everything that this government does, everything, absolutely everything. We are working on a plan for the health, social and economic reconstruction of our country. For the time being, the impact of the measures adopted by the Government to combat the pandemic has amounted to more than EUR 210 billion, and in the drafting of the new General State Budgets it is expected to reach the 196 billion limit of non-financial expenditure, which will go in the same direction, budgets that will mean one before and one after the history of our country. And what are you worried about? They are concerned that we are making an adjustment plan right now, now that all the European countries, now that the European Commission has even suspended the clauses of the tax rules, making it possible to introduce the deficit. Because, what's the deficit for? The deficit serves to build a social shield, the deficit serves to do at the moment what is being asked, that is to say to protect workers, self-employed people and families, and to give as much liquidity as we can. It is then a matter of offering this shield with a single objective, and it is that no one stays behind. But you still haven't learned anything. He says we disincentive the activity. The activity has been disincentived because of a virus that stalks everyone. Tell me only one country - one - that has macroeconomic data or that it has stuck the macroeconomic forecast with what it had last year, a single country that has higher data than the forecast it had a few months ago. I will give you a list of countries where the opposition is not using the pandemic to make politics. There are many: in Portugal, France, the United Kingdom or Germany the opposition has sided. They do not oppose by opposition or opposition to destruction. They say the European Union is calling for debt to be cut. See? You don't understand anything. As I said, the safeguard clause has been activated and when asked last week, they said abstention, neither cold nor heat. They're telling us about prescriptions in tax policy. I insist, you say you can lower taxes and collect more. Mrs Spain said earlier that yesterday was the biggest tax hike in our country. So, what did you guys do in 2012 why did you do it? It must have been political ideology. The IRPF increased 7 points and the VAT increased 3 points. They were able to raise VAT for hairdressers from 8 % to 21 %, and yesterday in the Finance Committee they asked us to lower it. You went up 13 points, and you did it without deceiving yourself; without deceiving yourself. Ah, and when, according to you, we had such magnificent data, they also lacked humility to lower the VAT they had gone up and to lower the IRPF. They set the example of the United Kingdom, Germany and many countries. Well, I'd like them copied in opposition. What happened after 2012? That arrived 2013, and in 2013 there was the historical maximum unemployment, 26 %. If 16% is high, 10 more points will tell me what it can mean. Those are your recipes, the recipes of the save yourself who can. You say: spend well. More education, 70%. More sanity, 3 billion. More social protection. Do you think there are little more than $2 billion in active employment policies? That is the budget that was presented yesterday, that is the budget that you think is not spending well. [[Applauds]] If one thing we have learned from this crisis - and I finish - it is the importance of the public, the importance of strengthening the welfare state, and it is good to remember the mistakes of the past. For you, apart from remembering them, it would be good for you to recognize them, because from now on, if you want to stand by us, we are going to rebuild what COVID has taken from us, we are going to modernize our country and our productive model, and we are going to strengthen the welfare state. These are going to be the objectives of our budget, these and not others, with a clear will to lay the foundations for moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u186	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Is that what you're talking about? OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THE COMPLIANCE OF THE PRINCIPLES OF NEUtralITY AND INSTITUTIONAL IMPAIRITY OF THE UNIVERSITIES IN CATALUña. [[File number 173/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u187	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the measures the Government intends to take to ensure compliance with the principles of neutrality and institutional impartiality of universities in Catalonia. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by thanking the university groups - teachers and students - from all over Spain for their support following the question of the other day. I would also like to thank the media that have echoed the initiative - which have been quite a few - because the initiative we are presenting today and the call we made the other day are not so much an inquiry or an initiative of a parliamentary group, but they really represent the democratic feeling of many civil society actors who have long been calling for neutrality in public institutions, in the field of education. Frankly, I believe that initiatives such as today's allow us to take steps towards armoring and achieving fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and freedom of tenure, and these are the things that make sense of our work. I'm going to ask you a personal question. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the fact that you can come to this House to work without being plunged into a spiral of silence, without being pressured by what you think politically, and without being afraid to say what you believe depended on the vote of third parties. I repeat, the fact that people can go to study or work without feeling excluded and without feeling alibied depends in part on what we are voting for here today. That is why I would like to stress the importance of this vote. A democracy cannot be allowed to demand ideological freedom and neutrality in the courts, because they are not whimsical, they are fundamental rights. I will summarise very briefly the facts that provoked the question to the minister. Recently there has been a sentence that has condemned the University of Barcelona for adhering to a partisan and exclusive manifesto in support of separatist theses. This sentence that has come to say is a thing of common sense: that a public university cannot assume as its own a political position. It cannot do so because, if it does, it tramples on the rights, both to freedom of expression and education, of the people who work and study in it. The sentence refers to a situation that is the drop that fills the glass of several shameful episodes that have occurred in this regard, such as the impediment to constitutionalist societies to be registered in the university records or to some students who had the idea of participating in the festivals of a university campus, and who unfortunately also had to go to the courts and gave them the reason in this regard. It is regrettable that these episodes had to end in court. When a public institution abuses its privileged position to take political sides, it is directly violating the freedom of expression of persons who are integrated into it, and who feel alibied and silenced. Anyone who does not understand this, as Minister Castells did not seem to understand the other day, has a serious problem. Whoever doesn't understand this is understanding that democracy is the law of the strongest. Listen to me, today's majorities may be tomorrow's minorities. Neutrality is not only violated by those things that we don't like, because all of us here, all of us who think differently, can be weak at some point. We will always condemn any attack on freedom of expression, even of one citizen, because freedom of expression is a fundamental individual human right. Freedom of expression is not collective, as I said the other day, and the subjects of freedom of expression are students, teachers and staff working in universities. Any partisan manifesto, of any kind, acting as a synecdoch of the thought of an entire university community is a democratic outrage. Of course, as teachers, as students or as staff, we can have our political ideas, and of course we must be able to manifest them within the university, but individually, as individuals, not as institutions. Therefore, when a university institution relies on collective freedom of expression to make political proclamations, what it is doing is trampling on the right to freedom of expression of others. And it is not worth appealing to university autonomy, as Minister Castells did, because university autonomy is contained in the Constitution and the LOU, but it is collected for very concrete and limited functions, and political representation is not part of the functions of the university. The Constitution attributes political representation to communities or institutions, such as this Plenary of the Congress of Deputies, or as a Town Hall, for example, but confusing a university cloister with a Plenary of the Congress of Deputies or a Town Hall is a real democratic atrocity. We cannot have a public university condemned for exclusive political positions, and any democratic party, anyone, thinks as it pleases, and whatever parliamentary sphere - from the right, from the left, from the centre - should defend the freedom of all those who are in a public institution. That is why we are presenting a proposal with three very simple proposals. The first is that within the framework of the General Conference of University Policy the necessary measures are already adopted to ensure the immediate compliance with the principle of university neutrality, of ideological neutrality of the university. Secondly, a very simple thing, a very small modification of the Law of Universities to guarantee the ideological neutrality of the centers. For what? In order not to have to see again how these issues have to be brought to justice, and in order for no one to see their rights violated by their political ideas. We also propose to develop, in collaboration with the autonomous communities and universities, a new regulatory framework for academic coexistence in the university sphere adapted to the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I am calling on everyone today to exercise democratic generosity before issuing their vote. They're not anecdotal episodes, they're very important episodes. Think about it, tomorrow it may be you who see your rights trampled on,...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u189	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u190	...and if we don't guarantee democratic neutrality... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u191	Your time's up. Thank you very much, Mrs. Martín Llaguno. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in VOX we believe that the diagnosis of this motion presented by the Citizens' Group is short; it is short in the reality that young people are suffering in universities and in many schools in Catalonia. In that connection, we have tabled an amendment to reflect what we already proposed in March, that bill which called for the amendment of the Organic Law on Universities, in particular in two articles: article 1.1 and article 2.3, in the line of specifying respect, on the one hand, for constitutional principles, and on the other, effectively, to ensure that ideological neutrality. Let us therefore hope that the Citizens' Group will accept our amendments, because it is clear that this is a matter of concern to us. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as freedom of education in Catalonia. With the systematic exclusion of Spanish in the classrooms, we must unite the permanent will to indoctrinate separatists in schools and universities, schools and universities that were educational institutions years ago and today, ladies and gentlemen, they have become centres of manipulation at the service of separatism, a separatism that takes advantage of all political and educational institutions to promote hatred for the dissident and all those citizens who defend, both his girl and his big homeland. [[Applauds]] As you well know, separatism, as a good mafia, unfortunately in Catalonia, decides who can participate and who can not in university life, for example, and does not hesitate to attack mercilessly, ladies and gentlemen, any civil organization or students who are against these separatist theories. From here I want to send a recognized hug and my gratitude to all those youth associations, to Students Pel Canvi, S'ha complet!, Teachers' Forum, who are constantly in the defense of freedom. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this absence of political neutrality in Catalan educational institutions is not a novelty. For forty years now, the governing bodies of many educational institutions have decided to take part in the political debate, with public statements, with calls, even with the adoption of separatist symbols as their own. The separatist mafia, ladies and gentlemen, has taken over many educational institutions, universities, and as a good mafia has placed its political commissioners in many classrooms of teachers, political commissioners who are responsible for monitoring what history they transmit to our children, so that they can manipulate it at their own will, how not, and in what language these subjects are taught. Because they want to carry out that project of the evil so-called linguistic normalization which, don't be fooled, is a euphemism. It is a project to impose Catalan in the classrooms in a totalitarian way and, in this way, to curtail the freedom of so many parents and so many students. But a lot of Catalans will be able to ask how we got here. I'll answer that. First, they relied on the complicity of the Government of the People's Party and Mr Aznar, because they did not appeal to the Constitutional Court to challenge the Language Policy Act. Mr Aznar's first government supported the project of linguistic imposition of separatists, and the People's Party, which today boasts the representativeness of constitutionalism in Catalonia, was the first to provide tools and funding for separatism. [[Applauds]] That is why, among other things, ladies and gentlemen, we are in Catalonia as we are today. Thanks to their complicity, ladies and gentlemen, the enemies of freedom and of all the citizens who want to defend Spain and Catalonia were able to support their project. But we must not forget the PSC, the accomplice of separatism, because we all know that convergence of interests around power, ladies and gentlemen. What we are discussing today is a violation of fundamental rights that had to be solved many years ago, and that is more than that, which we should never have come to. Because they never cared, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, neither the unity of Spain nor the rights of parents to choose the education of their children nor the harm they were doing in living together. But, ladies and gentlemen, today, fortunately, the Catalans have an alternative to recover that Catalonia that has taken away from us, a Catalonia to guarantee freedom of education, and to expel from public institutions those who, motivated by their hatred, chase thousands of Catalans to impose their totalitarian agenda and their rupturist project. Today, ladies and gentlemen, with the imminent entry of VOX into the Catalan Parliament, they will have a voice to defend their work, their security and a future of hope and freedom. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u193	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u194	Thank you very much. We consider the motion, and I say it without hyperboles, an aberration. Firstly, because it calls for a sentence to be extended that is not even firm, and therefore goes ahead of the real facts, and that you talk a lot about respecting division, the rhythms of justice, etc. This sentence is not even firm. And then for some issues that are already more political, first, because you want to silence the university, which has always been a space of political positioning, and second, not to mention only Catalonia and the moment of the independence process. What would you have said in 1956 when you saw the facts of the Complutense University of Madrid and Rector Laín Entralgo? What would they have said? Please, neutrality, we don't have to get into politics here. This is ridiculous and is out of the history of what universities have been in the Spanish state, but also in all the countries where there has been freedom of chair and university autonomy. To give an example, the University of Barcelona has spoken about the multiplicity of questions - some were already said at the time of the inquiry - about the Gulf War, about abortion, about language, also about political prisoners and has always been done with debate, then with a vote - often secret if asked - but there has never been a challenge, because the cloisters can take this kind of positions. That, on the one hand, and on the other, you want to hide a reality by hiding in this judge who has issued this sentence, who is not, of course, free from the ideological positioning of many judges who know what they think about independence. But you want to hide a reality in this way. It was an unusual fact because it was eight universities that, simultaneously, convened their cloisters to take a position and this manifesto was approved. In addition, the declaration was approved with an average of 83 % in the various cloisters. Then you, Mrs Martín, called it a partisan, ideological, sectarian and exclusionary manifesto. Let's see, partyist? If at least four parties of the Parliament of Catalonia could support this content. Sector? Of which sect, of the 83% sect? Exclusive? Well, as any position includes those who share it and excludes those who do not share it. Ideological? Like any position, it is also ideological and not taking a position is also ideological, preventing universities from saying something about issues of reality that surrounds them is also political. A university that says nothing, what does it look more like, a university in a democratic country or a university in a dictatorship? One last question. Next Wednesday, four university professors and one lawyer are being tried for participating in an electoral board, on the electoral board of the October 1 referendum. They have received the support of the major global political science associations, including the United States, which has difficulty in reaching conclusions on controversial issues. I don't think you would dare call those political science associations partisan, sectarian, exclusive, etc. We have it clear, although they have not received the support of the majority of directors - only one has been up to it - and neither have they received the support of Mr Castells' ministry, we are with these four academics and this lawyer that next Wednesday they have judgment. [[It shows a sign that reads: 'I donate support to the syndics of October 1'.]] From here, I take the opportunity to sympathize with them: Tània, Josep, Jordi, Marc and Marta... [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u195	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u196	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Martin. We would like to differentiate in our intervention what we consider to be the apparent reason for presenting this motion as a result of an inquiry and what is the real reason. Apparently the reason that gives rise to this emotion is the judgment which, as has been said, is not a firm judgment. Therefore, it is reasonable that this debate should only end here - a great deal of haste has been taken to present it - and we would vote against it. But the question is what is the real reason why Citizens choose to make this inquiry and this motion, and the real reason is that you think differently from what is said in that manifesto; that is the reason. Because if that manifesto had gone in another direction, for example, by appealing to the unity of Spain, you would have no problem. It is not a problem of majority and minority games, as you said in your speech, the problem is that you do not agree with what is said in that manifesto. If not, Mrs Martín - if not - how can it be that on other occasions where there are also manifests that can be interpreted as political interference or pronouncements of a political nature say nothing? With sentences like the CRUE itself, for example, it would have serious problems - as Minister Castells recalled and today they have remembered - for example, with the manifesto against the war in Iraq. But it would also have problems, for example, when it calls for homogenisation or calls for the standardization of the university, when the legal system, the statutes of autonomy and, therefore, the constitutional bloc, and all the calls that are being made from Europe, from Bologna, call for harmonization, autonomy and competences. However, claims of a political nature are made from the CRUE by calling for homogenisation and there is no problem. Therefore, the great problem that you have in this initiative is that. The question we ask ourselves is: what is the real mission of the university? The mission, the aims of the university, are teaching and research and it is intrinsic to the university the reflection, the openness of views, the criticism, the opinion, individually and giving collective channel to that free, majority and democratically expressed expression. And since we have two minutes and we are here, in Congress, where opinion and popular will are also freely and democratically represented, from our parliamentary group we believe that what we have to appeal to is dialogue and not prohibitions. That is why we would like to put two of the manifestos to which we have referred into dialogue: on the one hand, the CREU manifesto in relation to the Gulf War, and on the other, the manifesto - because we agree with the two - of the Catalan universities. The CRUE manifesto against the Gulf War said: Universities are privileged spaces for reflection, analysis, research and awareness-raising on these challenges. We reaffirm our commitment to making university campuses truly spaces for dialogue and meeting for people and sectors who are faced, who are divided, turning our universities into infrastructures that offer opportunities for the achievement of peace. And in another paragraph the manifesto of the universities of Catalonia said: We express the conviction that in a mature democratic culture there is and will be no other way to resolve conflicts and political differences than dialogue, negotiation and respect for the democratic expression of popular will. From here we do not have to call for prohibitions to resolve political conflicts. Let the university have that channel, let us not coerce freedom of expression and call for dialogue and negotiation to resolve conflicts of a political nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Citizens present this motion based on a sentence, as has already been said, of this same month and which, therefore, is not firm, which is not an obstacle for them to carry out their discursive propaganda. This ruling affects the cloister of the University of Barcelona, my university, and according to the conviction, violated the fundamental rights of students and teachers by a manifesto of the cloister, which considered the situation created as a result of the judgment of 1 October to be extremely serious, which pointed out that there was no room for silence in the situation, which required the immediate release of unjustly convicted persons and the termination of all related criminal and administrative proceedings, as well as the return of exiled persons, expressing their support for all civic and peaceful mobilizations in favour of civil rights and freedom, rejecting repression and police violence. If you call this a violation of rights, let Kafka come and see him, because there is nothing more surreal. In addition, they call for the amendment of the Organic Law of Universities and a regulation that they say guarantees the right to freedom of assembly, demonstration and free expression of pupils. There's nothing there. It seems to us, at least hypocritical, and, at the very least, inconsistent, that the same party that presents this motion to guarantee the right to freedom of expression, is the one that denounced President Torra to the Central Electoral Board for hanging a banner that said Llibertat political prisoners and exiles, and that culminated in his disqualification. That same banner that both Amnesty International and the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Group defend, a cry that is shared by up to eight Catalan universities and with them an extraordinarily large part of the Catalan population. But those who denounce - and always the denunciation is at the origin of their political actions, because of their facts you will know them - say that this manifesto endangers ideological freedom and, not content with it, question the representativeness of the cloisters, the highest body of university representation, which have been democratically chosen and among whose fundamental objectives highlight the promotion of critical thinking and the culture of freedom and pluralism, and the transmission of the civic and social values proper to a democratic society. Does this ring a bell? Because to discuss the legitimacy of the cloister to defend rights is to deny the critical role and social commitment of the university. This is not the first case in which the university expresses its opinion. It has already been said that in 1990 the University of Barcelona approved a declaration in favour of the self-determination of the Parliament of Catalonia, and it did so with an overwhelming majority, as in this case, without scandals either, perhaps because there were no Citizens. The debates on the Gulf War, the embargo on Cuba, the suspension of the crime of insulting the Crown and the outrage against the flag that we discussed yesterday, the respect for Catalan in justice, the reform of the abortion law, and also, of course, the causes in favour of political prisoners, always voting through, always with debate but with respect. A debate that ends in a vote is always a good debate and respect for the result is a way of teaching how to build democracy, as my colleague Monserrat Camps says in a few words that every Democrat should subscribe to. Respect for democracy, respect for freedom because the university, lords of Citizens, is an area of freedom; the freedom you want to coerce on the basis of complaints, judicialization and violation of elementary principles of coexistence and respect. The same context of attack on freedom, in this academic case, in which my fellow members of the electoral union find themselves for October 1st, and also my colleague, Professor Josep Lluís Alay, who this morning has again been detained shamefully for the second time in two years. They were required as academics, they are judged as academics and, despite not having carried out the tasks for which they are to be tried, since they renounced to exercise this role before the threats of the Constitutional Court, they will be tried with sentences of two years and nine months in prison for each one. As Tània Verge asserts, this trial is a message to the university professorate that it is not involved in the society to which it belongs. And here I am as a spokesperson for Junts per Catalunya, as a university professor and as a proud citizen of her commitment, fully involved. The reality is political, gentlemen of Citizens, and it is never neutral. I ended with the words of Conchita Ávila, professor at the University of Barcelona. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u199	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u200	The repression of independence by the state sewers has no limit. Right now the Civil Guard is detaining comrades in Catalonia for the simple fact of being independent, and today we are presented with a motion in which they intend to censor universities for rejecting the shameful sentence of Catalan political prisoners. All this is repression. And if what they're trying to do is scare us, I warn them that they're not going to get it, that more repression more mobilization and more repression more people are going to defend independence and amnesty. [[Applauds]] Today we are presented with a motion that, apart from being shameful, is, in my opinion, a shame. They are very meticulous with some topics - that I will admit - but when Catalonia's independence appears they change their method and move on to act on the basis of simple and basic headlines that put you even yourself in contradiction. To begin with, yesterday you were talking about how timeless the proposed law was to decriminalize the insults to the Crown, and today you come to us with a motion on the political neutrality of universities. I don't know, they've missed this either. Let us then talk about the political neutrality that they defend so much and let us talk especially about the fallacy of neutrality in public spaces. What is politics for you? For us, politics is done everywhere every day, whether we are Members or not. Policy is to defend better wages for university researchers, as do unions in universities. Politics is to criticize the underfunding of universities, as do the rectors of universities with all the reason of the world. Politics is to reject macho violence in a university motion, as several universities have done. It is obviously also politics to reject injustice, as the University of Barcelona did in the motion that alarms them so much. Are you going to reject all the examples I have named you for the simple fact of being political? You see, your party has been criticizing what you call a monotheme for three years, but with the motion before us today it seems that politics for you only implies positioning yourself on Catalonia's independence. Will the motions of the universities in which they stand against climate change, against La Manada's ruling or on the underfunding of the universities be blocked? Would you dare to do that? I am sorry to tell you that this is also political positions, as much as the one that rejects the shameful sentence of Catalan political prisoners. Do you know what your political neutrality flag really covers? Censorship, yes, censorship. At a time when you feel that universities cannot position themselves on what is happening in the university environment, what you are doing is assuming that the only thing the university can do is defend the status quo. And you know what? That defending the status quo is also a political stance. Look at the world's prestigious universities and ask yourself whether or not they issue positions. They will be surprised to see that the University of Oxford called for good relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union in front of the Brexit and that Harvard University, Boston College and thirteen more American universities rejected Trump's immigration plan in front of the VOCID-19 pandemic. Disassembled, therefore, his fallacy of political neutrality, I began to speak of the true intention of his motion. In the background, what you intend to do is to repress everyone who doesn't think like you. They cannot bear that several Catalan universities have stood up against the shameful sentence of political prisoners. Instead of discussing it in college, they take it to court. What you want, in the background, is to end the freedom of chair, to self-censorship the professors and the university staff, to make them feel afraid to express themselves and, therefore, to end the same universities, and there they will always have us against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Pause.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u202	Thank you, President. I must admit to you, Mrs Martín Llaguno, that this motion that you are presenting today, something else does not, but calm gives us a lot. In times of uncertainty, like those we are living, it is always to be thankful that there are predictable things. [[The lady]] There is no Christmas without the return of the Almendro towers, there is no summer without a bath on the beach and under the sun, there is no Holy Week without the procession of the Christ of the Gypsies, and of course, there is no electoral campaign in Catalonia without the Citizen Group attacking the Catalan educational system. [[Applauds]] It seems that you have already finished the quota of attacking basic education and now you are going to go through the university system. The university, as much as you care about it, is an institution that has always spoken in political, social or economic aspects essential to our society, and let us hope that this will never be lost, because it is the basic essence of our democracy. They have done so on sensitive issues such as positioning themselves against the illegitimate Gulf War, to which Mr Aznar led us; condemning terrorist attacks; against bullfights; on university fees; against macho violence or, more recently, against the parental pin of the far right. So we must continue to defend the intellectual building role of the university world, especially in times of high political temperature. You, lords of Citizens, remain in your world of Matrix: you pointed out education professionals, accusing them of indoctrination, and then it was filed by the courts; you promoted inflated complaints with the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, and now you want a political police to decide what the government of a university should and what it cannot talk about, breaking the principle of university autonomy. The parliamentary groups, Mrs Martín Llaguno, have very few opportunities to present initiatives on any subject, because they know the Rules of Procedure of this House, which imposes a quota system that makes it difficult. We have thirty-five Members, and it is already difficult for us to decide what initiatives we are putting forward in this House, always thinking about how we are useful to the general public; you who have ten Members will be very much more expensive. And, look, they seem to be interested in nothing but talking about these issues. You, gentlemen of Citizens, speak of the action of this government, and you are to oversee the action of this government. This government has ended the university fees of the Rajoy governments, increased university scholarships by 22% to ensure that no vulnerable family stays outside the university system, approved an investment of EUR 2 billion of COVID and educational funds, of which 400 will go to the university system, and today will be presented with historical general state budgets that will shield the public university in our country. But of that you say absolutely nothing. Paradoxically, last week you came here to talk about pacts and consensus, and today, again, you come with motions that all you seek is to generate chrispation. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of Citizens, you have had less restraint than Mrs Roldán's candidacy for the elections in Catalonia. I don't know if you're disoriented or completely inconsistent. This weekend Mr Cantó contradicted Mrs Arrimadas about the state of alarm, while Mr Ignacio Aguado went out on the Sixth Night to talk about Madrid as if he were not himself the vice president of Mrs Ayuso. Mrs. Martín Llaguno, just as VOX's thug has become the right-handed complaint, you have moved from'mountapollism' to being the right-wing takeaway and put that does things according to what the latest polls say. [[Applauds]] Mrs Martín Llaguno, talk about students, talk about teachers, about associate workers. For what? Right, Mrs. Martin Llaguno? That's a small letter, as Mrs. Ayuso would say. But I will tell you one very obvious thing that may surprise you: neither hospitals operate without doctors, nor public universities are supported by ideological motions like this. So we've had quite a waste of time last week with fourteen hours of ultra-right circus in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. The floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress is Mr. Goofy. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u204	Thank you, President. The Spanish Royal Academy points out that the term neutral means that it does not participate in any of the conflicting options. I was sincerely surprised that Minister Castells did not join the defense of neutrality at the university. First of all, because being neutral means not doing anything, nothing needs to be done, and everyone knows that Minister Castells prefers not to do anything. Secondly, because Mr Castells raised in this House a false debate, a false conflict between freedom of expression, in particular freedom of speech, and university autonomy, on the one hand, and the principle of the neutrality of institutions, on the other. 'I am not going to be a minister censoring the freedom of expression of anyone', he said with the same solemnity that he told us in the Commission that this world is ending. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution guarantees in Article 103 the objectivity - and consequently neutrality - of our institutions and also guarantees freedom of expression and ideological freedom. But, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly said, they are rights that protect citizens and not institutions, provided that they do not have the function of political representation, as is the case with the university. As a claustral and member of the Governing Council of the University of Valladolid, I had to vote on many occasions on absolutely extemporary issues, not on shared values, as the minister said in this House, but on controversial matters. And, as one of the main theorists of democracy said, Giovanni Sartori, the application of the majority always assumes that there is a minority and therefore that their expectations are frustrated. What is the need to pass resolutions by a majority on issues that have nothing to do with the competence of university cloisters? The result is that, in the name of the freedom of expression of an organ that does not have it, the true freedom of expression, that of the students and that of the teachers, is abducted to speak freely. It is not a question of the university not thinking about ethical, political or social issues, it is a question of having a university in which all ideas can be expressed, without the institution being inclined by any. Because the real censor, what really attacks the freedom of chair is to approve on behalf of the entire university, which represents everyone, what only some think. Mr Garriga in his speech at his second meeting in this House pointed to the old thesis of the left that everything is the fault of the PP, this is also the fault of the PP. I am not going to answer you because I am going to focus on the content of the motion. Ladies and gentlemen, what is truly scandalous about the position of Minister Castells in relation to the manifesto denounced by Universitaris per la Convivencia is that a Minister of the Government of Spain says that it falls within the freedom of universities to attack the law, judicial decisions, the rule of law and the Constitution. It is true that the judgment of the Barcelona court is not firm, as has been repeated here machaconically spokesmen of several groups, who, by the way, had no room to vote in favour of the motion of censure against the People's Party which was based on a judgment that was not firm, even though today they bring this argument to fruition. [[Applauds]] But the Ombudsman has also said this and it seems clear and obvious that the content of the manifesto is contrary to the Constitution. I mean, to control our Twitter, yes, but to attack the Constitution, freedom all. We could expect this from the separatists, who do not have much respect for the Constitution, but from a minister of Podemos? Hey, didn't we come to defend the weak? And who is the weak one here, the student of the Catalan university who does not dare in his class to say what his ideas are so that they do not point to him or an organ of the university that imposes official truth? Who is weaker, the teacher who is opposed to nationalism is marginalized by his colleagues or those who intend to impose the law of silence on them? Who is weaker, the student association that freely organizes a talk or the violent majority that with a slap prevents them from speaking in college? Although, of course, Mr. Iglesias began to crush Rosa Díez in the Complutense, things of the ultra-left. Lords of Podemos, the defense of the weak has lasted very little, less than it takes to go from Vallecas to Galapagar. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. From the People's Group we will remain committed to a university where freedom and plurality are guaranteed through institutional neutrality, as reflected in the non-law proposal we have registered in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I was born in 1990, we are a child of democracy. Let us not undo what our grandparents did, let us not let the seed of hatred and intolerance take root in which must be the house of critical knowledge. I want to remember at the end of my speech from my colleagues from New Generations in the Basque Country and Catalonia and other youth organizations who have often had to silence their ideas or who have been discriminated against and harassed for thinking what they thought. Let's work so this doesn't happen again. More freedom is always more university and only through institutional neutrality will we achieve it. For this reason, Mrs Martín, we will support this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u205	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramírez Carner has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u206	Thank you, President. Members, Members of Parliament, Mrs Martín Llaguno, the truth and clearly speaking what you are saying with this motion, with this parliamentary initiative, is that the Government of Spain becomes a sort of body of previous censorship of freedom of expression. Orwell would be very happy with you. The answer is easy: no. No, because it would be illegal; no, because it would be illegitimate, and no, because it would be unconstitutional. The Constitution is fulfilled in its entirety; not the article that suits you, but the whole. [[Applauds]] You've been reminded of that before. I understand that you, for your career and training, will know what the principle of university autonomy is. You come here to ask Congress to urge the Government of Spain to change the law of the State because there is a non-signatory judgment that annuls an administrative act, which is a manifesto. It is up to the university and its organs to appeal or not to appeal this judicial decision and to give effect, where appropriate. Universities, lords of Citizens and right-wing gentlemen, do not live outside reality. Read the Organic Law of Universities, which says literally: The action of universities should not be limited to the transmission of knowledge, should generate opinion, demonstrate their commitment to social progress and be an example for their environment. And in that line, and it has already been remembered by the speakers who have preceded me in the use of the floor, there are countless examples, some we may like more and others less, of university positions: against the war of Iraq, bullfights, against macho violence. Do you think it's wrong for a university to take a stand against macho violence? What about the parental pin? Maybe I'll get it more there. On university fees, you and your right-wing allies say absolutely nothing. Gentlemen of Citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the right, neutrality is not indifference, neutrality is not to explicitly support parties and governments. Neutrality by general rule is not at risk in our public universities throughout Spain, nor in Catalonia and, if there are over-limitations, there are already judicial mechanisms to correct them, as it seems to be the case. Why Citizens after a thousand positions of many public universities bring this initiative here precisely on this issue, on independence issues? There are two reasons. The first, and you have remembered, this smells like Catalan elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the independence groups are very happy with you today. Every time the independence soufflé comes down, citizens come to the rescue, because in Catalonia they have grown up and lived out of the mess and, if there is no mess, you don't know what to talk about, or yes. [[Applauds]] The second reason is that you don't like it very much that we know what your elite model of universities is. You between last week's questioning and today you've had almost twenty minutes to talk about universities. You haven't said anything about college. They focus on manifestos and in twenty-five minutes they have not said anything about what the university represents for our people as a social elevator. They haven't talked about tuition fees or teacher insecurity. It's just not a minute! They haven't talked about equal opportunities. Is it that you bring them uncaringly? No, don't take care of them. They have a very clear idea. You, when you rule the right in Catalonia or any other autonomous community, are very clear about your model, do not bring them without care. In Catalonia, for example, since 2012 they have reduced budgets for universities by 30%. University fees have risen by 66%, the highest in all of Spain. Mrs Borràs, you forgot to mention that too. The nationalist right-wings on both sides are very happy to talk about this. In May, there was an agreement of the Ministry of Universities with almost all of the autonomous communities, except four, to lower the fees. Madrid, Andalusia, Castile and León and Murcia voted not to lower university fees. In Andalusia - it was remembered the rector of the University of Seville -, you have preferred Bertín's show instead of betting on public universities. You prefer to lower taxes on the rich and we prefer to lower university fees so that no parent in this country has to choose which of their children goes to college. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Ramírez Carner. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I ask Mrs Martín Llaguno whether she accepts her group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-28-CD201028.u209	Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was two and ten minutes in the afternoon. Error correction.- In the Journal of Sessions number 57, corresponding to plenary session number 54, held on Tuesday 27 October 2020, on page 2, eighth paragraph; on page 5, sixth paragraph; and on page 75, ninth paragraph, where it says: 'Institutional declaration on the occasion of the day of the care deficit and hyperactivity disorder' should read: 'Institutional declaration on the day of the care deficit and hyperactivity disorder in Spain'. [[ADHD]] [[ADHD]]
