ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point concerning the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 3/2020 of 4 February of urgent measures incorporating into the Spanish legal system various directives of the European Union in the field of public procurement in certain sectors; private insurance, pension plans and funds, taxation and tax litigation. [[Rumors]] To present the Royal Decree-Law, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take a seat and keep a little silence. We have resumed the plenary meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am appearing today for the first time in this legislature before the plenary to defend on behalf of the Government the validation of Royal Decree-Law 3/2020 of urgent measures, incorporating into the Spanish legal order various directives of the European Union in the field of public procurement, in the field of taxation and tax litigation, in addition to the distribution of insurance, pension plans and funds. It is a rule which, as has happened on previous occasions since we arrived at the government, responds to the urgent and extraordinary need to transpose into our European directives whose deadline has expired for more than a year. With this royal decree-law we are taking a step further in adapting our regulatory framework to Community regulation, an issue that we have promoted since we arrived at the government, which results in this greater protection of citizens' rights and also in an improvement of the possibilities of our companies to compete in the single market, by benefiting from the same rules of the game as the rest of European companies. I think it is important that we do not relax in this constant work of transposing directives because the delay undermines the credibility and responsibility, the good image of our country and also leads to the possibility of imposing large fines, and we must prevent the money of Spanish taxpayers from paying fines for failing to act diligently in our respective responsibilities, of government and of Parliament. I think... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u3	Vice President, hold on a second, please. I beg your silence, please, there is a constant rumor and it is impossible to follow the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u4	As I was saying, I think it is very difficult to explain to the citizenry, in fact I think that the citizenry would not understand it, that as public officials we will not do everything possible to complete these procedures as soon as possible, especially after the long period we have been in office, because we have to continue to make progress in these matters and avoid, as I said, that taxpayers' money is dedicated to paying fines because we have not acted diligently enough. So, for our part, we are making every effort to unravel these issues as soon as possible and that we can continue to focus our efforts on solving citizens' daily problems. In this royal decree-law, up to nine Community directives are transposed within the scope of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation and also within the scope of the Ministry of Finance. Firstly, the Directive on contracting by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors and the Directive on the award of concession contracts are partially transposed. Both transpositions have expired since April 2016 and are about to be decided by the Court of Justice of the European Union with the possibility of a sentence for Spain of almost EUR 186 000 per day, with effect from the date of the judicial ruling. This part of the royal decree-law will ring a bell to many of you as it was submitted to a wide debate within the Finance Commission in the past legislature. In fact, the bulk of the amendments respond to the report that the paper approved in 2019 and that it was unable to complete its proceedings due to the convening of general elections and the consequent dissolution of the Courts. This amendment complements the rules on contracting in the strategic sectors I have mentioned above and postal services by public sector entities that are not public administration and by private companies with special or exclusive rights, as well as the contracts of the same sectors for the award of works and services. In this way, Spain complements the transposition of the package of Community directives on public procurement adopted by the European Union in 2014 under the so-called Europe 2020 strategy, which aims to give public procurement a key role in achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by ensuring the rational use of public funds, improving the efficiency of government spending and facilitating SME participation. Furthermore, this package of directives is based on the premise that public authorities can and should use recruitment to support shared social, labour and environmental objectives within the Union, respecting the principles of equal treatment, non-discrimination, transparency, proportionality, free competition, integrity and respect for that market unit. Among other developments, mandatory e-procurement is introduced for all stages of the procedures with the aim of increasing efficiency and transparency - no one misses the importance of this measure -. The contracting entities are given an unequivocal legal mandate to incorporate in a cross-cutting manner, both in the configuration and in the substance of the procedure, considerations of a social, labour, environmental and support nature to SMEs, forcing them to take measures to ensure that they are respected during the execution of contracts and may even impose penalties for non-compliance. Conflicts of interest in this area are regulated for the first time. Market consultations that contracting entities can do both to plan their tenders and to report on their procurement plans are regulated. It clearly sets out how the basic tender budget should be calculated. At the award stage, the principle of the most economically advantageous tender is replaced by the principle of the best tender, determined preferably on the basis of price quality criteria. It is required that, when assessing tenders in tenders where quality should be given priority, such as intellectual service contracts, qualitative criteria represent 51 % or more of the score. Abnormally low offers are allowed to be rejected when environmental, social or labour obligations are found not to be met. The obligation of the contracting entity to transfer any substantiated evidence of collusive conduct to the National Commission on Markets and Competition, the CNMC, or to the competent regional authority is introduced. Standard and simplified forms are laid down for public procurement notices. A new innovation partnership procurement procedure is introduced to encourage the development of innovative solutions without closing the market. The scope of contracts reserved for insertion companies and the possibility to reserve the right to participate in tenders for social, cultural and health services contracts to certain organizations that are already providing such services and that reverse their benefits in achieving their own social objectives are extended. Contracting entities may use purchasing centres, dynamic purchasing systems or electronic auctions. Sporadic joint procurement of two or more entities and contracting entities from other States of the European Union is regulated. The implementation phase also promotes the introduction of social, labour, environmental and R & D considerations, including those that promote gender equality or promote greater participation of women in the labour market and reconciliation. The 60 % limit on the award amount in subcontracts is removed and payments to subcontractors and suppliers are regulated, as well as the possibility of direct payments to subcontractors. The cases in which contracts may be amended are limited and a mandatory authorization from the Ministry of Guardianship is introduced for modifications exceeding 20 % of the initial price. In addition, out-of-court settlement of disputes is permitted and serious non-compliance with Community law is included in the grounds of invalidity and the purpose of the contracts must be clearly defined in order to avoid fraudulent splitting. In fact, I have seen that this issue has generated some controversy, perhaps because some of your ladies and gentlemen have not fully understood the subject of this amendment, so let me pause for a moment to explain it in more detail. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the amendment to section 118 of the Public Sector Contracts Act responds to the warnings that from the Consultative Board on Public Procurement of the State and also from other areas, in particular from numerous local entities, have been making to the Government since March 2018 on the disproportionate nature of its current drafting, particularly in small municipalities where there are a limited number of potential bidders, which may lead to an unjustified restriction of competition. Because banning potential public-sector contractors from entering into more contracts than individually or jointly than EUR 40 000 in the case of works contracts and EUR 15 000 in the case of service contracts or supplies may in practice result in failure to meet all procurement needs in certain locations due to the lack of sufficient companies. That is to say, something that has been done to avoid illegal practices of splitting the objects of a contract in order to reduce the amounts and thus avoid the requirements of publicity or those relating to the award procedure, is in practice causing technical problems, because it may be possible for a single contracting authority to conclude several minor contracts, even for the same purpose, but that they do not constitute a unit of execution either in economic or legal terms and therefore not an unlawful division. This government has been aware of this problem for a long time and, in fact, we had already introduced this legal amendment in the draft State General Budgets for 2019. Since this bill did not come forward, it is urgent to take advantage of the opportunity of this royal decree-law to resolve this situation as soon as possible and, therefore, the royal decree-law that we bring to validation today proposes an amendment to the aforementioned article 118 of the Law on Public Sector Contracts in order, maintaining the prohibition of fragmentation of the object of the contract for fraudulent purposes, to prevent that provision from having the effect of restricting attendance or harming the necessary agility in this type of minor hiring. In particular, what is proposed is to replace the limitation of the possibility of hiring above a certain amount by the obligation that the contracting authority issue a report justifying in a reasoned manner the need for the contract and that its object is not being altered in order to avoid the application of the advertising and control requirements laid down in the law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that both the new wording of Article 118 and Article 99 of the Contracts Act explicitly and unequivocally maintain the prohibition of fraudulent splitting of the subject matter of the contract. Beyond the scope of insurance distribution, this Royal Decree-Law fully transposes the Insurance Distribution Directive, which expired on 1 July 2018, which seeks to harmonise the national provisions relating to the access and exercise of this service distribution activity in order to ensure the maximum level of protection for insurance customers, that this protection is equal regardless of the commercial channel through which the product is acquired and that there is maximum transparency in the activity. The main developments incorporated into our legislation are, first of all, that from now on it will be considered as an insurance distributor not only to traditional brokers as agents or brokers, but also to the insurance and reinsurance entities themselves when they sell directly through their employees, as well as to other market participants who distribute products for auxiliary purposes, such as travel agencies or car rental companies, which will be considered as supplementary insurance brokers, or to safe banking operators who sell this product through banking networks. This is intended to establish a level playing field and also to ensure an adequate level of protection for citizens, regardless of the distribution channel. Secondly, insurance agents and brokers are expected to be able to use websites and other remote marketing techniques to provide their customers with information by comparing prices or coverage of a certain number of products from various companies by regulating the activity of so-called insurance comparators. Thirdly, the requirements for training and professional competence of all persons involved in the distribution of insurance are harmonised and reinforced; this is essential to ensure that agents, brokers and employees of entities that market insurance have professional knowledge commensurate with the level of complexity and nature of this activity. Fourth, mediators are required to certify that funds belonging to clients are transferred through accounts completely separate from the mediator's other economic resources. It is an additional guarantee that mediators have separate accounts for their clients in the management of the quantities received or paid and the rest of their professional activity. The duty of information to the customer to improve its protection is reinforced, with additional requirements in particular in relation to the distribution of insurance-based investment products, such as unit linked, seeking to prevent and avoid potential conflicts of interest. To this end, all costs, expenses and risks incurred by the customer in the investment products must be reported. Fifthly, it will also be mandatory to collect information on the client's financial knowledge in his or her experience and provide him or her with a regular assessment of the suitability of the investment product, warning him or her if he or she is considered that the investment product is not appropriate to his or her profile. I believe it is essential that citizens are well informed about the products they are acquiring, to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided; for example, when products are being sold that may be unsuitable for the customer but which are nevertheless the ones that the most commission can give to the mediator and, therefore, insurance brokers and intermediaries in general must also inform the customer about the commissions they receive from the insurance companies. Sixth, the concept of combined and linked sales is introduced in this area with the obligation for the insurance distributor to inform the customer when the insurance contract is offered in conjunction with ancillary services or products. It should also be informed whether the different components can be purchased separately and the corresponding cost and expenditure justifications for each individual component. In this way, the customer before hiring each product will have to receive express and understandable information about the effects that non-contracting or early cancellation of each of these products may have on the total cost. Another important development is that requirements are set for product governance, i.e. distributors who design their insurance products have to do an internal process and be responsible for knowing for what type of customers these products are being designed for, they have to do an approval and control process including identification of the target audience. The system of infringements and sanctions is strengthened, procedures for channelling complaints are established and, finally, the supervisory powers of the Directorate-General for Insurance and Pension Funds are strengthened, and a communication mechanism is established between European supervisors to improve the protection of users of private insurance services from the exercise of their international distribution. All these amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are in line with the provisions of the Community directive and, as I said before and as you have seen in my presentation, this is a substantial improvement in the protection of insurance customers. Along with the transposition of this directive, this Royal Decree-Law also transposes part of the Employment Pension Fund Directive, which needs to be incorporated with a law rank. The deadline for this transposition expired on 13 January 2019 and will require further development to be fully transposed. Employment pension funds are those in which the promoters are companies and the participants their workers, and serve to articulate pension commitments for retirement that the companies acquire under the agreements with their workers. Thus, this directive introduces new developments and changes in different aspects of the regulation of employment pension funds in their cross-border activity, in the applicable investment rules, in the system of government, in information, etc. The ultimate objective, like the previous one, is to boost the competitiveness of this sector and create a single market at European level, protecting the interests of customers. In order to adapt our legal framework to this new reality, it is necessary to amend the consolidated text of the Law on the Regulation of Pension Plans and Funds adopted in 2002 in the following sense. First, general requirements of governance, fitness, honorability, remuneration policy, key functions, written policies and outsourcing are established to strengthen the system of governance of pension funds and ultimately improve the protection of participants and beneficiaries. In short, it is a matter of ensuring that pension funds are managed in an appropriate way to ensure the sound management of the savings accumulated by workers. Secondly, the information to be provided to participants in such products, as well as their beneficiaries, both before and after subscription to the pension scheme, is improved in order to increase their level of protection. The Royal Decree-Law regulates the principles governing these reporting obligations: general information, specific information to potential participants, information to participants during the pre-retirement phase and information to beneficiaries during the period of pension receipt. Thirdly, the Royal Decree-Law introduces rules on prudential supervision of pension funds, especially with regard to transparency, inspection procedures, duty of professional secrecy and the exchange of information, and also provides for improvements in the regulation of cross-border activity of these employment pension funds within the single European market. The current management is being improved so that an employment pension fund located in one Member State can integrate employment pension schemes from other Member States, a measure which is designed mainly for workers of multinational enterprises, so that they can have a single pension fund with plans in the different countries where they have workers. On the other hand, the mobilisation of pension schemes between funds from different countries is regulated for the first time by establishing a prior authorisation procedure by the competent authorities of the transferring fund Member State and the receiving fund Member State, in order to strengthen workers' rights and promote competition between managing bodies. The non-validation of this royal decree-law, as was the case with the part referring to the Ministry of Finance, would mean continuing to accumulate delays, would mean the imposition of a fine on our country. In this case, in fact, since a new procedure for calculating fines is being applied, we are talking about a flat-rate penalty already accumulated exceeding EUR 32 million, which would continue to be increased at a rate of more than EUR 193 000 per day from now on. Finally, this royal decree-law also partially incorporates the rules to encourage long-term involvement of shareholders in the insurance and pension funds sector. We will soon bring to this House other regulatory proposals relating to this participation or long-term involvement of shareholders. To this end, the Management, Supervision and Solvency of Insurance and Reinsurance Entities Act 2015 is amended to introduce two new articles that improve corporate governance and the investment policies of insurers and reinsurance companies. Nobody misses the important role these operators have in long-term investment in our country. The necessary adjustments are also incorporated into the consolidated text of the Pension Plans and Funds Act. In particular, reference is made to the development and publication of a policy of involvement as institutional investors, describing how the entity is involved as a shareholder in its investment strategy in listed companies and, secondly, the requirements for dissemination of information on the main elements of the investment strategy and consistency with the profile and duration of liabilities, especially long-term liabilities. In this way, we will be able to better understand the strategies and investments of insurers and employment pension funds in listed companies, see how they align with their general policies, how they fit within their corporate governance policies and also align with the liabilities of the entities. Finally, the Law on the Management, Supervision and Solvency of Insurance and Reinsurance Entities also contains the provisions of the agreement between the European Union and the United States on prudential measures in the field of insurance and reinsurance which entered into force last September to eliminate the requirement for local presence in reinsurance activity. The Sixth Directive transposed by this Royal Decree concerns the harmonisation and simplification of certain VAT rules in the taxation of trade between Member States, with the aim of further progress in the prevention of tax fraud. In this respect, the European Commission has already put forward its proposal to establish the elements of a definitive VAT regime in inter-Community trade in order to overcome the transitional system of taxation for destination, which governs us from the beginning, but as it is expected that it will still take several years to agree on this definitive design, it has been considered appropriate to achieve harmonised treatment in all the different Member States of certain operations, in order to achieve a simplified and uniform taxation, since so far there have been divergent interpretations of the rules. Thus, in all Member States, taxation of intra-Community transactions is simplified for so-called agreements on the sale of goods in consignments, which are agreements between employers or professionals for the cross-border sale of goods, in which an employer sends goods from one Member State to another of the European Union to be stored at the disposal of another employer or professional who may subsequently acquire them. The same simplified procedure also applies to chain deliveries. In order to improve control of all these procedures and to combat fraud in intra-Community operations, the requirements for the application of the exemption in intra-Community deliveries are reinforced. For example, it will be necessary to have a NIF-VAT allocated by a Member State in order to benefit from this simplified scheme, and it will also be necessary to keep record books specific to these operations, which will have to be brought to the electronic headquarters from 1 January next year. A seventh directive is transposed which includes the Italian municipality of Campione d'Italia and the Italian waters of Lake Lugano in the customs territory of the Union for the purposes of excise duties. Finally, the regulation of non-resident income tax is amended to transpose the Directive on mechanisms for the resolution of tax disputes in the European Union, thus harmonising the framework for the resolution of friendly procedures and strengthening legal certainty. In particular, the possibility of refusing access to the resolution procedure covered by the directive when imposing sanctions for tax fraud, deliberate default or serious negligence is envisaged, and the exception relating to the loss of interest of delay, which will continue to accumulate during the processing of the friendly procedures that are initiated from now on, is also eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see, this is a very technical royal decree-law, which faithfully and directly transposes the new requirements emanating from Community legislation. These are rules that accumulate great delays, for which our country can suffer substantial fines if it fails to comply with our transposition obligations. That is why we have brought it to this Parliament as a matter of urgency, in order to ensure that the rights of citizens and economic operators are adequately protected as soon as possible and that possible sanctions are not imposed. In any case, in order to improve any aspect in which parliamentary groups still have doubts, this royal decree-law will be treated as a bill, thus continuing the deep negotiation of the last legislature. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u5	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Government. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. On behalf of that group, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Calviño, good morning. I rise to this rostrum to defend the position of the People's Parliamentary Group, which has already announced its vote against, and I will explain the reasons. Mrs Calviño, the words of the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, are still echoed in this Chamber when he said in the motion of censure that he was going to make this Parliament the centre of the political debate. I remind you that this Parliament makes laws, it is one of the fundamental issues, and today once again the government invades the powers of Parliament and brings us a real macro decree-law which, nothing more and nothing less, transposes six directives, almost 260 pages. You have had to coordinate and in the end you appear when there is a part that corresponds to the Treasury. That doesn't matter, but what we're already struggling to understand is the excuse you've argued. He said it's urgent because someone didn't do their homework. Obviously, the previous government was of the People's Party and I am referring to it. He also said that no one would understand that anyone would vote against it. What arguments, Your Honor, what arguments! Do you know that you have been ruling 18 months and have not brought this to avoid sanctions? Do you know - because you said it - that the paper was finished? You were nine months in the government; you could have called the Finance Commission and you didn't, and the directive on excluded contracts would be transposed. Whose responsibility is this, Mrs. Calviño? Of you; now I will explain to you why. In addition, they have abused the royal decree-law: twenty-eight in nine months. Why didn't you bring one more? What else did it matter? Their obsession with the decrees laws is contrasted; they used them even for electoral doping. Do you remember the famous social Fridays? They did not stop, one after another, with public resources campaigning; using and abusing public resources to the extent that Mr. Sánchez is the first president convicted of misuse of public resources in election campaign. Look, the real reason for this royal decree-law is its inability to forge agreements with all the groups that support the government. You have an economic situation, even though yesterday Mr Sánchez - no longer surprising anyone - was laughing and saying that we are once again the champions of the economy, in which all the alarms have been lit, and you are unable to bring a budget to this House. You've been living on Mr Montoro's budget for almost three years. That is urgent, and you are unable to do so. That's the real reason. And you know what the other reason is? I told him that one of the fundamental functions of this House is legislative, to produce laws, that has a procedure, and the procedure basically goes through the issuing of reports. And you with this royal decree-law simply skip those reports because with the amendment of Article 118 you would have put them back and a half, because it is inexplicable, ladies and gentlemen, the retrogression involved in the amendment of that Article 118. When Mr Sánchez says that the law is not enough, my parliamentary group is really concerned. The law, ladies and gentlemen, is the key piece of any democracy and of the entire legislative procedure and, therefore, it is difficult to understand that invasion that is constantly and constantly taking place by the Executive in the Legislative. And now we're going to the royal decree-law, because you've made a game of half-truths that's the worst you can do in life, basically because you're lying. You missed the truth in the text of the royal decree-law, and today you for the second time - as Machado said, in the end telling half truths means lying twice - have missed the truth again. I'm going to make a reminder that it's basic to understand this and that it really makes you very bad. You said: no one would understand that, in the face of the threat of a sanction, one would vote against. Well, look, this initiative that is transposed today came in November 2016 along with the Public Sector Contracts Bill. The two papers were opened at the same time and it was at the request of you and another parliamentary group to request that the regulation of contracts for excluded sectors, water, energy, which is now being transposed, not be enabled or started to work until the processing of the Public Sector Contracts Act was completed mainly because it affected you so much that it made no sense to walk to then undo the road. He's been negotiating very hard for 12 months, Your Honor. The Public Sector Contracts Act was adopted, since a few days later, on 15 February, the bill was submitted and is now being transposed. Eighty per cent of the amendments were adopted in the first speech; in the second one there were only two issues to be resolved: AENA Ports and something, Your Honor, which is why you have passed here today with rositas as if nothing happened, which was the return of VAT on public television, something that had nothing to do with this law, absolutely nothing. We closed the text of the paper, only the Commission had to be convened and, believe me, there were many attempts I made to convince them - and all those who were in the paper are well aware - to convene the Commission and to be able to pass this bill, precisely because of the threat of sanctions coming from the European Union. Do you know what was the answer from your parliamentary group and the other group that is not here today, from Podemos? That either there were 13 billion, ladies and gentlemen, to return TV VAT or there was no law. Three months, Your Honor, in that debate, when the sanctions were in place. By the way, I will tell you something: to ask for responsibility here because they threaten us with sanctions when it turns out that by the decree of the greenhouse - I do not know if you remember it - Europe was already sanctioning us and you opposed the adoption of the royal decree-law, along with the whole left of this House, because the truth, Your Honor, believe me that it is difficult to understand how you are able to say one thing and the contrary at the same minute. We are not surprised because Mr Sánchez is a teacher in this, but the truth is that it is quite complicated. Now let's go to the other nuclear issue. In the end, you are permanently amending yourself, but the problem is that you do not explain it. Today, why isn't VAT, which was a nuclear issue for both Podemos and the Socialist Party. I understand about Podemos, in the end the official cars and being able to use a ministry to celebrate a birthday appeases much in that impetuous demand. I remind you that in those days there was a contest to see who was more radical, to see who posed a tougher opposition to the People's Party. Now the carpet, the armchair, the skin, I insist, makes forget many things; the sky no longer storms, with assaulting offices it is worth. Now we are going to the other correction, which, believe me, concerns us, is the first final provision amending Article 118, which has been your obsession since it was in the Government, which is already the third amendment that it proposes. But to rely on the urgency of the royal decree-law to paste this is entrepreneurship, let me tell you, because you have avoided all reports that would have put them back and a half. Article 118 was an imposition by Podemos and the Socialist Party, I don't know if you knew. The proposal of Podemos made the minor contract and the proposal of the Socialist Party inviable, do you know what it was? That a contractor who entered into a minor contract with the Administration could no longer enter into two contracts in the same year. And in case it was little, they wanted every month to publish all the minor contracts. You made the flag, along with Podemos, of the minor contract for the fight against corruption, that of what you are talking about here permanently and constantly. It was the nuclear center of the law, they didn't care about anything else; the minor contract as a measure to combat corruption. And today they propose with this royal decree-law to open the doors to corruption, because you say: there are municipalities that they cannot hire, small ones. The People's Parliamentary Group had already been warned in that paper and proposed to them to make a double regulation for small municipalities. You didn't even want to hear about it. My opinion may not be relevant, but when it turns out that the Court of Auditors, in a report that has just been made, puts back and a half all the large municipalities in Spain, mainly those governed by Podemos, for the use and abuse that they have made of the minor contract; when they have been shot exponentially; when you have the OIRESCON, the recruitment responsibility office, which says that 90% of the contracts in the autonomous communities are minor; when you have the Advisory Board on Contracts which also reports and also says that the minor contracts have been fired; Your Honor, when everyone is warning you; even the Public Procurement Observatory warns you that it is a very clear setback in the fight against corruption; the fact of repealing Article 118 in the way you put it and opening up the possibility that the contractor can continue to make contracts without limits, is a really difficult approach to understand and know why they do so. In my group we were tempted to think that Mrs Colau is the specialist in the 14 999, that is, how Mrs Colau tunes the contracts by 39 999 to circumvent the law; contracts have been fired at the City Council of Barcelona. I don't know, Your Honor, if it's an imposition, but in any case, as time runs out, I'm going to tell you a few more things. You mentioned the possibility that subcontractors can go directly to companies. Are you aware that with this amendment and, if included in the specifications, they condemn contractors to leave within 200 days? It is that Podemos and PSOE, which imposed direct payment from the Administration on contractors and subcontractors, are charged with article 1597 of the Civil Code; these are inexplicable things. And to confuse, Your Honor, the minor contract with what cash advances are is already of note.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u7	Mr. Suárez, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u8	Yes, Madam President. We are going to vote no to this royal decree-law, and we are going to do it primarily for three things: because it is a fraud of law, ladies and gentlemen, to have collated article 118, because it opens the doors to corruption and because we are not willing to allow more than the Executive invaded the Legislative, as it is doing. Nothing more and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u9	Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Vice-President. [[Denials of the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation, Calviño Santamaría, makes negative signs]] Mr Martínez Oblanca is the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Forgive me for being a little late when I went up to the rostrum, but I find it unusual that the Government has not replied to the turn against in a royal decree-law. [[Applauds]] Madam Third Vice-President, I was speaking to you at the beginning of the speech on the lack of credibility, which means that European directives are not transposed in time and that this leads to delays and sanctions. Mrs Calviño, please do not endorse the work of the Government in the Chambers, do not endorse it. The worst criticism that can be made of a democratic Government is that it does not believe in Parliament, and its Government does not believe in the Courts, does not believe in the main function of this Parliament, does not believe in the main work of Congress and the Senate, which is nothing but legislation. I don't know if you're a football fan, but football fans will know what the big deal is. The catch is the anti-fútbol, the brakes, the anti-game, destroy the party. You're a piece of legislation, Madam Third Vice-President. If the accounts do not fail me, this is the fifth time you go up to the rostrum to defend the validation of a royal decree-law; the previous four were during the XII Legislature and were validated with my vote. I - let me say - had you as a rare opinion in the Government, a rigorous person, to whom he accompanied a journey at the community level and who, in addition, distinguished himself from other members of the Government, who used the mechanism of the royal decree-law to collate everything. I remember the then Minister of Ecological Transition, today vice president, and the Minister of Industry collated at the end of 2018 two deceivable royal decrees-laws that have wreaked havoc on my land. Having said that, Mrs Calviño, you who practiced the community liturgy, which dominates the 'bruselés', the community language, should never have lent to this royal decree-law which is a colladero. It has succumbed to the practices and trichinets of the Sanchist Government, just to see the copious index of books, titles, articles, chapters and provisions that mark this very complex royal decree-law that brings us this morning. You emulate the bad practices of your colleagues, try to mock the opposition. And I do not want, Madam President, to miss my step through the rostrum to denounce yesterday's blockade of the opposition in this house with the simultaneous appearance in two different Commissions of two ministers who are interrelated in their work. It's not the first time it's happened, and that means blocking the opposition. That means...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u11	Mr Martínez, the debate is not with the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies and, moreover, the time has run out. [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u12	Indeed, it is not with you, but I want to make it clear that what is happening here this morning does not stop being a mockery of opposition control, the same one that was done yesterday afternoon in this house. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u13	Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u14	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This royal decree-law is fully justified, urgency is inescapable. It is not a question of seeing the causes of the delay, but of looking ahead because of course the transposition of the directives in the line presented to us is very urgent, especially as regards the insurance sector, a very social institution - I would say very socialist - because you give when you do not need it and receive it when you need it, the same happens with pension plans. Then we welcome this regulation, which is also trying to avoid the abuses that are taking place. As for the rest of the rules, you have been very convincing and there is not much more to say. And with regard to what is no longer urgent and transposing directives, the amendment of contracts, minor contracts, I am belligerent with this article. I can say that in my days as a counselor I had something to do with it and, moreover, there is one thing that has gone unnoticed and not only in minor contracts because it also affects the cash advance, which is something that is in the day-to-day not only in small municipalities, also in large ones. It affects the plane ticket, the gasoline, the tick. This regulation is welcome and we proposed it to the Recruitment Advisory Board. With regard to minor contracts, it is intended to go against corruption and it is really worse. First, the rule is not met, there is a total breach and a law that is not met leads to corruption. Another aspect is to start demanding controls and papers. What's going on? That whoever wants to do it does it and the corrupt is even more armored because when they accuse him, he says he has all the papers because he's already taken care of doing them right. It's incomprehensible that entrepreneurs stay so quiet when you can't hire more than once a year with your first client. This gives rise to other types of corruption, which are agreements between companies, going to the city hall next door or to the other community, creating companies with different names. Another thing is mistrust with public managers. Most public managers are honest and well managed, and this day and day causes a number of drawbacks that should be eliminated. Therefore, welcome be this new regulation, it is urgent and necessary. It should not only have the support of this whole House, but also have the support of all institutions, municipalities, neighbourhood councils, autonomous communities and autonomous bodies. Everywhere there is a cry against this article. Management needs to be improved, managers need to be trusted, and bureaucracy needs to be the one. Therefore, I am the first to give your full support to be included in this royal decree-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, good morning. The truth is that I am surprised by some of the statements you made here today, Mr Suárez, and then I will comment on them. Today we are discussing Royal Decree-Law 3/2020, which transposes various directives of the European Union into law. As the Minister has said, it is motivated by the fulfilment of the obligation to transpose the directives and by the consequent sanction on the part of the European Court of Justice. It is a transposition that will enable the infringement procedures opened by the Commission to be closed. As the Vice-President has said, these are directives on public procurement, private insurance, pension plans and funds, taxation and tax litigation. This group - I have to say - in recent years has criticized both the delay in transpositions and the use of the royal decree-law, because we understood that the attendance of extraordinary urgency could not be affirmed, since the directives entail a very predictable situation because they have some transposition dates. In this regard, Brussels should not be used as a threat. The non-transposition, also said the minister, shows a lack of agility, even I would say disdain, and is that, according to a report prepared by the General Council of Economists, Spain takes an average of 12 months more than the rest of the Member States to transpose the European directives. On the other hand, it must also be said that the Vice-President, Nadia Calviño, inherited a backpack with numerous directives that were not transposed and, of course, we welcome her willingness to finish these delays, as well as to transpose in time those adopted in Europe, even if in some cases it has been or will be through the actual decree-law. As far as the cost is concerned, as you said, it is neither receivable nor liable to pay fines for something that the government does not do. What we do not understand here today is the use of a single royal decree-law to validate such different directives, which obliges each group to position itself in different matters and may in some cases lead them to vote against, even to a abstention. It does not seem to us to be a good legislative practice. We have always understood that the transpositions of the directives must be carried out by giving the groups the capacity to discuss and express their views on the matters they bring about, in order to achieve better adaptation to them. It seems to us that this transposition will also be treated today as a draft law and an advance that we will vote in favour, but we find it strange how the House has brought it, especially because there is a transposition that has practically captured the work that has been done in the presentation of the excluded sectors and, on the other hand, amendments that have not even been discussed in the insurance part have been incorporated. In the area of taxation, we understand that there would not even be a need for a bill because in the end it is a very technical standard and has no major problems. He said that it was strange because it was true that public procurement was a project drawn up by the PP, which was worked on paper where most of the amendments were incorporated with a broad consensus. And it is true that it was left in the air because two amendments were still pending; one relating to the amendment of the Public Sector Contracts Act as regards minor contract files; and another - as you have also said, Mr Suárez - relating to TV VAT deductions. But in addition, you were also in favour of changing that article 118 on minor contracts. And it is true that we received an e-mail in which you told us that, since the Finance Commission was around the corner and in the spirit of closing down possible problems that were generating the minor contracts law, you attached us a series of technical improvements in this regard. Therefore, we all agreed that Article 118 had to be changed, the only discrepancy there was as to the VAT on autonomous televisions, which you were against. It is true that it came from an amendment of the Socialist Party that also defended Podemos at that time, and the other political groups wanted the Public Contracts Act to be amended in this regard, not with retroactive effect, but with a view to the future. That was so, but you were in favour of amending that minor contract law. In the area of taxation or taxation, this is a technical standard and we have already said that it does not pose a major problem and that it should not be treated as a draft law. As regards the insurance directive, it is a transposition which seeks to ensure the protection of the rights of insured and beneficiary policyholders by insurance contracts and to promote freedom of recruitment. We have to say that this bill was also published on 21 May 2018, the deadline for amendments ended in September 2018, amendments that were not dealt with by the call for elections. However, I have to say that some of them have been included in this draft or in this transposition, even though they have not been debated by the political parties; amendments which are also more technical and not so much substantive. We are going to vote in favour of its processing as a bill if that is the case, but we also understand that what underlies here is that if it is processed as a bill, perhaps it is because they do not have enough support from the House. They are in a coalition government and not in all cases have guaranteed support for policy projects. We will therefore ask you at least to dialogue, negotiate and agree before bringing them to the House. I have to say that it is true that this macrotransposition was discussed with us, but it is also true that we have had little room to study it. That is why I am going to ask you for an addition, which, when you talk to small groups, will give us a greater margin. As for the insurance part, I want to say that the PSOE only introduced an amendment that is incorporated in the text, the PP did not introduce amendments, We can include two paragraphs of a single amendment, of Citizens, seven - a few are from Unespa -, of Esquerra and of the Joint Parliamentary Group somewhere and of the Basque Nationalist Party none, so now we will have a better chance to convince ourselves and of course to introduce some amendment. As I have said, we will vote in favour of validation, as well as processing as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De Quinto Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the urgency of validating a real decree-law with several directives that should have been transposed too long ago. This unforgivable delay does not come free, because it has serious economic consequences for our country. If you do not know, Spain has the unfortunate merit of representing 70% of the sanctions that Europe imposes for delays in transpositions; and I say that it is shameful because the wish of its Government, combined with the continued closure to which this House has been subjected, makes us too expensive to the citizens to whom we serve and to which we owe ourselves. Let me put it in perspective: a single European Union fine of EUR 125 000, for example, as one that the Commission proposed to us in 2017, comes out a month for about EUR 3 750 000, which is three times the sum of the monthly salaries of all Members together. But this is not sophisticated, resorting to the trick of mixing different things in the same decree-law cocktail, in the hope that once stirred up any infumable modification goes unnoticed to the opposition. As I have only seven minutes, I will focus on the directive which seeks to introduce a series of proposals aimed at ensuring transparency and preventing corruption in public procurement and with which Citizens, of course, could not agree more, since we are the party that has flagged the struggle for political regeneration in our country. [[Rumors]] What we are dealing with today and scandalous is that this ERE government, which speaks so much about the Gürteles, has taken advantage of the transposition of this directive precisely in order to eliminate from our system certain mechanisms of control over so-called minor contracts of the administration. Indeed, the gift they were preparing for us was hidden in the first final disposition of what they are presenting to us today. This final provision ardently eliminates section 118.3 of the Contracts Act, which prohibited the award of minor contracts to the same supplier who, together with all of them, either because they had been broken down or because they were repetitive, would exceed the thresholds of EUR 15 000 in services and supplies or EUR 40 000 in works. I mean, you, gentlemen of the PSOE and the United We can, what you intend with this decree is to pave the way for finger contracts, what you intend to do is to make it easier for some administrations to camouflage large contracts through multiple smaller contracts and thus escape from controls that until today established the law, allowing them to hand over to the amiguetes what they want, I suppose, as Mr Errejon said, in order to be able to protect themselves when the cold reaches the left kleptoizda; well, the left kleptoizda - sorry - I think that's not what he said. And don't tell me, as the minister has told me here, that they eliminate this legislation because this is what the local authorities have asked, because, following the same logic, tomorrow the bank could also ask that stress tests be eliminated because they are tedious and complicated their lives, or the very super minister of Fomento could ask that the surveillance cameras of all airports be removed because they complicate saving Spain from important international conflicts, conflicts that, by the way, cannot explain why we are fools and we wouldn't understand. Nor does it excuse the scarcity of resources from small municipalities, Minister, because the main problem does not come from them. Let me read you some headlines. [[Shows a press clipping]] We have here one of The reason that says: 'Colau eludes the law and awards to fingers dozens of public contracts'. But, as I suppose you prefer The country, here I have another: 'Carmena awarded 11,000 contracts worth 60 million in two years'. [[shows a press clipping]] Then, gentlemen of the PSOE and United We can, let me tell you that adopting directives is very good, but not if it is done by mere legal imperative, which some would say, or if you do not believe in them and that is why they are not seriously implemented. I'm going to give you an example that comes very well on the case. The OIReScon - I suppose you have heard of it - is the independent office of regulation and supervision of public procurement. It was born in 2017, also the result of the transposition of a directive. Well, that office has not been provided with sufficient resources to carry out its mandated work. Despite this, his hard-working team was able to publish last December a demolishing report on public procurement that should make many people blush. I recommend those of you who are interested in the proper use of public funds, even some of those on the ERE bench, to take a look at it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my party is a liberal party, a party of progress, a party of real progress, not that of speeches, but that of miga and cascara, which Benedetti would say, of which it generates real growth, employment and prosperity. For this reason, we are committed to a free and transparent market, where there is real and fair competition, where fair play is played and where merit, effort and excellence are rewarded; and this necessarily implies the different administrations, because they must be the first to set an example by demonstrating transparency and cleanliness in their recruitments. We do not believe in the capitalism of friends, nor, of course, in the socialism of friends, who always flourish in the shadow of the public. Because if we accepted that the public administrations could favour not the most competitive or the most professional, not the one with the best product or service at the best price, but the best connected, the friend of fulanito or menganito or the one with the card of certain parties, we would be charging our good companies, our good entrepreneurs and, ultimately, our future as a country. Then - Madam President, I conclude - it has been very difficult for us to decide our sense of vote. On the one hand, we want to be responsible and not delay further some transpositions of directives, but, on the other hand, we do not want to be complicit in dismantling certain measures to control public procurement, which we believe is absolutely entrepreneurship. That is why our small but full group is forced to abstain and wait for the matter to be dealt with as a draft law, because this will allow us to introduce anti-fraud amendments, which are what the citizens really demand, even if it does not coincide with what you propose to us here today, of course. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u19	Thank you very much, Mr De Quinto. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u20	Thank you, Madam President. As in the validation of previous decrees, in this case we will not vote in favour either. When an already cooked dish is presented to us, it is normal that we may not like it when or how it is made or, even, that some ingredients can cause an unwanted flavor. In this case, we are faced with a mix of amending rules on public procurement, private insurance, pension schemes, taxation and amicable procedure for the resolution of tax disputes, all as a result of the transposition of European directives into the national law of the Spanish State. It is true that we are so late, so late that, when we speak of an extraordinary and urgent need to come again to regulate these matters through decree-law, it is, at least, shocking. As the Minister pointed out, some of these directives should have been transposed in 2016; that of public sector contracting in 2018; that of insurance in 2019, as well as that of pensions and tax litigation and friendly procedure. There was time, therefore, to do so in another way. It should be recalled that the capacity of the Government to legislate by decree-law should be reserved for exceptional cases, otherwise the legislative capacity of the House is being removed. Unfortunately, this procedure is being abused and is being used for situations that are not peculiar to the decree-law, an issue which you yourselves, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have repeated in this rostrum before previous governments who used this same technique. If they finally decide to treat it as a bill, it'll be fine with us. With regard to the content of these directives, while some of us understand them correctly, others believe that they should be treated more carefully and carefully, thinking of citizens as consumers of financial products and of avoiding abuses in this area which, unfortunately, have occurred very often in previous times. As an example - I put only one for a matter of time -, which affects insurance and pension plans, especially because it normalizes the concept of a banking-insurance operator and also the distribution of investment products based on high-risk insurance and with insufficient guarantees and therefore also at risk of abuse, with a certain tufillo to situations such as the scam that in its day generated the sale of preference by financial institutions. In short, we are going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u22	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen - very briefly - we are going to vote in favour, and we have already told you the week before the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that we would exercise responsibility if this were not to circumvent the parliamentary debate and should be treated as a royal decree-law. Therefore, unlike other groups, we will make it possible for this initiative to take place in this House. Despite this, indeed, as I have repeatedly said, I believe that they have abused the royal decree-laws. This was a prerogative of the socialist government, but I see that the new government, with United We can, continues to use it. However, in a double perspective, if it serves that all the royal decrees laws that have not been consensual be treated as a bill in this House, they will find us. We have not been among the groups previously consulted, and that makes there are some aspects that we do not agree with, and we are particularly concerned about. But I am not going to evade the comment in relation to the first final provision of this royal decree-law, which is the one that amends, does not delete, section 118 of the Public Sector Contracts Act. Minister, welcome: nothing is happening that we did not predict in the paper. Personally, I warned the rapporteur of the Socialist Group and the rapporteur of the United Nations Group, Podemos, that this created a huge difficulty in small municipalities. We were told no, that everything would be all right. And you know how it's been arranged? Well, with a solution that's not exactly ours either. Maybe we'd brush it up, and we're going to do it, but what was said was going to happen, so we're where we shouldn't be. In any case - and certainly we are going to table some amendment to this article - I do not share some of the statements expressed from this rostrum, as if minor contracts now had no limitation, because that is not true and does not respond to reality. Beyond that, Minister, we see with some uncertainty - we have already told you in the previous mandate - the transposition of the directive in relation to the distribution of insurance. We understand that in some way the powers of the Generalitat in the field of supervision can be limited. We do not understand some of the amendments, such as those incorporated in the tenth additional provision, which incomprehensiblely limits, from our point of view, the autonomy of the port authorities, and which are submitted for certain contracts to the criterion of the Council of Ministers. We will amend that and hope that we will find some solution. There are also other issues, but I do not have time to explain them from this rostrum. As we have come out and had an amendment, I would like to ask for some solution on the question of VAT in relation to autonomous television, although it does not only concern autonomous television, as it could affect other subsectors. It is not incorporated in this royal decree-law, although we saw with some joy that on the agenda the reunion the Government established that it was one of the issues that they wanted to address. Beyond being able to speak with the Government of the Generalitat, I can tell you that our group in this royal decree-law is going to present the amendment that has already been proposed in the previous draft law. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bel. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u24	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. With all due respect, Madam President, and although I do not share, at all, the adjectives employed by Mr Martínez Oblanca or his presumptions, I do wish to complain to you about the same facts that he denounces. A multi-tasking deputy has to decide what...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u25	Mr. Capdevila, please. Let us move on to the question of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u26	I'll stick to the question. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your effort. This morning we discussed the fourth royal decree-law of this legislature that brings us its government, a royal decree-law omnibus - it has already heard the complaint about its volume - which incorporates mainly the transposition of - I estimate - about six European directives. Thus, in a bloc, we are presented, among others, with two bills that were already in parliamentary procedure in the ancestry of the legislature. It is a pity to be of the last, because the complaints accumulate, but I wanted to tell you that the presentation of omnibus laws is - and I suppose it shares - a bad legislative practice, which only induces confusion and intrusiveness. You yourselves, who will certainly have looked at any manual of legislative technique, will have read that one of the main recommended rules is simplicity, and nothing further than simplicity, simplicity, clarity and the absence of normative dispersion than what you bring us here today. It is another clear example of an inefficient and obsolete state that shows us that the transposition of these directives has to be done by royal decree-law. It's not the first case, but let's hope it's the last. It draws much attention to the fact that duties have not been done in four years, that is, that responsibility - let us be honest - is shared and should be shared. But here we are, and we have already announced to you that we will request the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill, and that without that we cannot support this transposition. Out of decorum and respect for the separation of powers, we will wait for the spokespersons of the groups to announce it enough to guarantee it. We find it essential that it be dealt with as a draft law in order to be able to introduce amendments that prevent the invasion of the powers of the Generalitat of Catalonia in the field of insurance, apart from other technical amendments, since, if the current wording were maintained, it would increase the rigour between distributors and insurers; and very relevant are also some amendments aimed at guaranteeing the rights of the consumer, in addition to others relating to guaranteeing the independence of the port authorities, as well as referring to clarifying - I will not abound in the arguments of Mr De Quinto and other spokespersons - how to prevent corruption around minor contracts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capdevila. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u28	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is a good day to give joy to citizens, municipalities, small and medium-sized enterprises with the validation of this royal decree-law, which includes improvements, changes in many areas, such as that of public procurement. For example, the requirement of environmental and social criteria in the criteria for the implementation of contracts would undoubtedly have a positive impact on social welfare, as it is in line with the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. But this royal decree-law does not only cover the area of public procurement, it also covers the areas of insurance, pension plans and taxation. It's a real heterogeneous decree-law, it's a real diverse decree-law, almost as diverse as our country, although some strive not to recognize it. This royal decree, if I may, is like a variety. A variety in Mallorca is a dish that combines different rations, such as Russian salad, Majorcan fried, pilots; all in the same dish. Well, this royal decree law is like a variety, and it has been done this way, it has been done this way, it has been by royal decree because we are already late and we have no time to waste in transposing directives from the European Union. The minister has explained the content of the royal decree-law very well and it makes no sense for me to go further, so thank you very much, Minister, for the explanations and thank you also for stepping on the accelerator in the transposition of directives of the European Union making use of a tool that the government has for this kind of urgent necessity cases such as the royal decree-law. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the question that would have made sense for you to put on the table for discussion here today is the problem that Spain has of delay in transposing directives from the European Union. If you were to exercise opposition, you would invite reflection on this issue and propose some alternative or solution, and I hope that someday we can have a constructive debate, although, unfortunately, I think that is a lot to ask. I can't help but be surprised at the things you can hear here. I would like to ask the VOX Group if the playful comment you made the other day from this rostrum, that 'ja, ja, the Podemos have no money to pay for a cruise' is a scumbag in the world of pijos in which you live, or what it is. [[Applause. - Several Members say words that are not perceived.]] Of course, what we think, and surely many of your voters will think so that you can't afford a cruise either, is that that comment is deeply classy and completely out of place. [[Rumors]] Please respect the humble people, the working class, the impoverished middle class, all the people who cannot afford a cruise because they have no money for it. [[several Members say words that are not perceived]] Today you have the opportunity to show that respect. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You say you're defending Spain, but we're bored with Venezuela. We heard more about Venezuela than about its proposals to solve the problems that concern the people. Last week, in the plenary control session, with all those questions, we checked that if you say Venezuela three times from this rostrum appears Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, the spokesman of the Popular Group. [[a Member: The question!]] [[Laughter and applause]] Please stop wasting our time, and, I insist, if you want to do something for the people, today you have a chance. Of course, what makes no sense is that you vote against it. You know that the directives of the European Union are binding and that, if they are not incorporated into our legal system within the relevant time limit, Spain is severely subject to punishment. In short, we must validate this royal decree-law so that the European Union does not fine us. Voting against them are voting against the interests of Spain, they are voting against the pockets of Spanish and Spanish. You can already explain very well here the reasons why you would do that, because, gentlemen of the People's Party, I do not think your voters will understand that you are voting against it. And to celebrate birthday who knows it's you, who spent 4,000 euros on confetti. [[Applauds]] The joy of giving us a hug and blowing the candles we want for any working person. I guess when you guys think about parties, you think about other things. I'm led by his partner Rodrigo de Santos. [[A honourable Member: What a shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a real possibility that the bill of this royal decree-law will be passed, with all that this implies. The Confederal Group would like to express to you our willingness to engage in the process, you can count on this group to dialogue, to discuss, to negotiate and to reach agreements to legislate for the benefit of the people, which we are here for. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, that my first words from this rostrum are in memory of a person with whom, beyond our close family ties, we shared the concern about what was happening in this House. I am referring to the journalist who for more than twenty years made chronicles of the Congress of Deputies, Montse Oliva, which today I especially remember. [[Applauds]] Having said that, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, what you must do is to respect the early Spain, the real working Spain and the real Spain that contributes to the wealth of this great nation. [[Applauds]] Indeed, today we are talking about a cocktail of directives that were adopted almost five years ago and, as a result of an unprecedented inaction, Spain has at the moment the sword of Damocles of important sanctions, which are, in fact, difficult to explain. Minister, this is what citizenship does not understand; what citizenship does not understand is why it has taken all this time in this inaction and indolent attitude, paralyzing parliamentary life. The Socialists will tell me that it is the fault of the People's Party, and indeed Mr Rajoy's People's Party had many moments of inaction. I do not want to refer to all the events in Catalonia, but to one of the most tragic moments of recent years, when in that blue chair instead of appearing a president of the government who perhaps should have resigned appeared a bag, and out of those dusts these muds. [[Applauds]] Thus, our first great and severe criticism must be to the action of this House, to the majority groups, because it is clear that something has failed, as has been said here. It could happen that this anomaly would lead - we repeat - to severe sanctions on the Kingdom of Spain. So, our first reproach. The second one addresses and points to what appears to be the new way of governing the Executive, and this is because it usurps the normal process in the configuration of the normative body by means of democratic procedures that are possibly unknown by some of the formations that accompany the Executive in its interventionist dreams, thus denouncing the parliamentary debate and turning the extraordinary into the usual. How far are the heroic pretensions of those assemblies, of dogs and flutes of the 15-M, sovereigns of popular democracy, squandering through this policy of consummated facts - their position -, requesting the debate in plenary in this House in the Law of Public Sector Contracts will remember, gentlemen of Podemos, how far are those pariahs of the earth left. Thirdly, our criticism, which we took from the opinion of the Economic and Social Centre and focused on public procurement, of that preliminary draft law which had failed, in which the ESC expressed its disagreement with the inclusion within the subjective scope of that law as contracting authority of trade unions and business organizations and foundations linked to them, as referred to in Article 5.2(b) of the Royal Decree which refers to the Public Sector Contracts Act and which, on the other hand, links these entities with possible corruption practices. We already know that in the coming times it seems that this does not matter. We would perhaps have liked to take the example of the comparative law that has been applied as European legislation has been transposed into the French Senate, through the great title of Public Procurement in the service of the economy, through support for small and medium-sized enterprises or the new partnership procedure for innovation with more scope for negotiation. Having said this and because time is pressing, obviously we have to move to the final disposition of the royal decree, to the magical theme of this royal decree. And here there is no urgency in this amendment because it is not transposing European legislation but is already being dictated again. Indeed, the amendment of section 118.3 of the Public Sector Contracts Act is of such importance that removing it from the House's debate is a bad habit. It disappears - see - what was called with a certain altanery, what came to be known, by the anti-corruption clause, which limited the awards to finger. We will recall Instruction 1/2019 of the Ministry of Finance, of 28 February, where it was said that a great confusion was actually created by the different elements and consultative bodies that had disparity of ideas. There was indeed a great disparity of ideas, not only was this instruction not applicable to the autonomous communities - we return again to the issue of the autonomous communities - but even in small or large municipalities it was a great difficulty. But it is clear that what has been removed from the political debate is amending it - as we have said - through the actual decree law that is now to be passed, with the vote against of course of our formation. I am grateful to Mr Suárez, of the People's Party, for having clarified to us questions - we were not in this House - about why the delay in this far-reaching law, indeed the most far-reaching of the whole system, I would say national, of improved legislative technique, despite the rapporteur, who we assume has made balances and who has now made clear to us what balances he had to make with regard to VAT. I am talking about the law because it is article 118 that is amended by that law. I am talking about this law because it is indeed important that we have to speed up, modernise and value all administrative procurement. That's why I was looking at the approval that was made in the French Senate. I'm done, Madam President. In short, let us hope that the abolition of what they called the anti-corruption clause does not mean that the stellar step of that woman of protective state of her advanced student in the style of teacher who collects but does not teach, who also accompanies them with the head gacha in his project, the evil forgery of the nests of Codreanu, at the time and for blushing of all his lordships president of the Anti-Corruption Commission of this House. I am referring to Mrs Carmena, who alone, as has been said before, in Madrid and only in two years awarded eleven thousand contracts worth EUR 60 million. [[Shows a press clipping]] Let's hope this isn't the model to follow.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u31	Mr. Aizcorbe, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u32	In short, we will vote against this validation of the Royal Decree-Law, hoping that it will continue as a bill. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u33	Thank you, Mr. Aizcorbe. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin my speech today on the transposition of European directives with a sincere memory and a warm tribute to Fernando Morán, who has done so much to ensure that Spain is fully integrated into the European Union today. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, for explaining so well today this royal decree-law by which up to nine Community directives are transposed so that Spain can continue to make progress in our compliance with the commitments we have made as a Member State with the European Union, and all this in order to make a better country that better protects its citizens, consumers and businesses. That is what today is about in the validation of this royal decree-law, and in the meantime and among so many issues today we have heard many political parties in this House, especially the People's Party, Citizens and VOX, very concerned about a very timely issue of this royal decree-law, which is the hiring with the public sector, minor contracts, saying they are very concerned about corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, coming from you, it is very unbelievable that today you show that commitment to corruption in this House when you are the example and the maximum exponent of corruption in this country. [[applause]] [[Protests]] Citizens, you, always so concerned, said, for democratic regeneration, I do not know how strangely you understand democratic regeneration when you have allowed parties that are the opposite of that to be maintained in the governments of Madrid, Murcia and Castile and León. [[Applauds]] Let me also tell you, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, that it is a strange way of understanding economic liberalism when today its main reason for abstaining in this royal decree is that it removes that limitation to minor contracts with the Administration. Gentlemen of Citizens, it is a strange way of understanding that liberalism you have and, probably for that reason, you are today in political irrelevance - I told you last week - also in this House. [[Applauds]] I leave most of my speech to answer some issues of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what will your European partners think today by voting against the validation of this royal decree, which is all it does is transpose Community directives? What will you think, ladies and gentlemen? Probably the same thing you thought when you have agreed with the far right of VOX when in Europe what you do is to corner them so that they have no room in the institutions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] That is what their European partners are thinking today. And I'll tell you one more thing. There are many ways of achieving irrelevance - look what has happened to Citizens - and, on the way to the facts, you go today to political irrelevance in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Look at the great irresponsibility of what you are doing today in this House, which is multiple. First, for a long time, since 2014, they have not transposed Community directives - it was their responsibility, that of the governments of Mariano Rajoy - and then come to this House to say that they are going to vote against what you had to do and moreover, not content with it, in the speech they announce their vote against to convince the House as a whole that they also vote not. Gentlemen of the People's Party, that is called a manifest irresponsibility, which is what you are doing today in this session of the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] Secondly, you deny things that are obvious, when the whole House, and you yourselves, know that today it was urgent to pass this royal decree-law. In addition, they have been based on an argument that has fallen with the Vice-President's proposal today, and that I, as economic spokesman for the Socialist Group, also say to you: we are going to put this royal decree-law to the vote for its processing as a bill. Therefore, yes, ladies and gentlemen, this House will be able to discuss any issue that the parliamentary groups want. Finally, a particularly important issue, to which you have devoted a great deal of time: minor contracts. Don Eloy, what a piece of paper you've touched within your group by having to defend this in this House today because, as you well acknowledged, you were precisely against how the regulation of minor contracts finally fell under the law. And not only that, Your Honor, but throughout all these years the need to make this change has been made clear, not because the government is saying it, not because the Socialist Parliamentary Group is saying it, but because today there are so many companies and, most importantly, hundreds of municipalities throughout Spain, many of them also governed by the People's Party. You have a problem, which you do not even listen to mayors, who have repeatedly called for amending this law so that minor recruitment can be made more susceptible, ladies and gentlemen. And not as you want to see here today, calling into question this government's commitment to the fight against fraud, because that is expressly reflected in this amendment of the royal decree, it is expressly prohibited the fragmentation of contracts with the public sector. Even the Advisory Board on State Contracts itself had already drawn numerous warnings that it was disproportionate as it was currently reflected in the law. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about here today is to validate this royal decree-law so that Spain continues to make progress, so that we comply with our Community partners, so that we become a reliable country, so that Europe looks to Spain as a reference country and to remove that dubious honour from being in some cases the only country in the European Union that has not yet transposed these Community directives, and for something more important, which I am sure you too are concerned about, to avoid these large fines, which are a fact if we do not validate this royal decree-law today. Therefore, a little responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Citizens and VOX.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u35	Mr. Casares, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u36	I'm done. You have a commitment not to this government, not to this House, but to the men and women of this country. Therefore, we ask you to reconsider and vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 3/2020 of 4 February of urgent measures incorporating into the Spanish legal system various directives of the European Union in the field of public procurement in certain sectors; private insurance; pension plans and funds; tax and tax litigation. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 3 telematics votes, 339; 182 plus 3 telematics votes, 185; 136; abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u38	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 339 in favour, 332 in favour, 335 in favour, 335 in favour, 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-20-CD200220.u39	The Royal Decree-Law will be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. The meeting rose. It was ten and fifty-five minutes in the morning.
