ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the item on the debate on the whole of the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2021. First and foremost, for the presentation of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u2	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Indeed, I rise to this rostrum to request that the General Budgets of the State be processed for the year 2021, country budgets, ladies and gentlemen, not of this government or of the political formations that make up it; a country budget because it is the well-being of the Spaniards, their present and their future, what is being said here and now. They and they are the protagonists and recipients of these public accounts, who seek to give certainty at a time of extraordinary uncertainty, lend confidence to discouragement and offer hope that we will be able to recover and get out of the crisis as soon as possible, as all of us here want. Certainty, trust and hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we can get out of this crisis by really forging the foundations for solid, just, sustainable growth; that we need to move forward with the necessary modernisation of our productive system, while generating greater social cohesion and fighting inequalities; in short, that we work to ensure that no one is left behind. I think we are all aware of the enormous suffering that Spanish society is suffering after almost a year of pandemic. To the pain truly irreparable for so many lost lives join the anguish, the concern for the evolution of the second wave and above all the fatigue, the vital and emotional exhaustion for all that we have lived and all that has changed our life. But certainly, ladies and gentlemen, the recent news we heard this Monday about the possibility of having a first commercial vaccine with an effectiveness rate of 90% opens up a very hopeful path for the whole planet. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must congratulate ourselves on this, with all the prudence, with all the caution, but also with the conviction that from science, innovation and collaboration between research teams we will soon be able to provide the solutions we so long for. The welcome that the announcement of this first vaccine has been very remarkable in the scientific community, of course, but also in the stock market world and in most economic analysts, so I think it has been an injection of optimism at the worst moment of this second wave. As public officials, it is our duty to respond and offer solutions with absolute frankness, without concealing the gravity of the situation or a peak, but of course without letting ourselves be dragged away by unrest. We cannot contribute from this House, from politics, to adding more hardships and difficulties to which all the citizens themselves already have. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like this debate to be an invitation to practice politics with capitals, useful politics, one that serves the general interest and is concerned with solving the real problems of citizenship; this policy that is able to listen and argue from the logical discrepancy, which is only the reflection of a democratic plurality, with respect and with education. At least that will be my purpose: to try to transfer to them the arguments on which the Government believes that these budgets must continue to be dealt with. And I will start with the obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a real anomaly that we continue with extended budgets for 2018, designed in circumstances that have nothing to do with the current and absolutely out of date. If not now, in the midst of a pandemic that has generated the worst health, economic and social crisis since the war, when can we agree to approve accounts for the country? The presentation of the amendments to all these budgets, and therefore the opposition to their processing, shows, in my view, a worrying inability to understand the exceptional moment our country is experiencing. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and VOX, the option of approving the amendments in their entirety and thus rejecting the draft budgets that the Government brings to this House is a clear irresponsibility. They may not share some of the budgets, they may disagree with the direction of some policies, they may be in the antipodes of the Government, but they cannot doubt the imperative need for this country to have new public accounts. [[Applauds]] And the time is now, ladies and gentlemen, not within we don't know how many months. Spain needs new budgets urgently and there are many reasons, as I will try to disengage throughout my speech. But, before that, I would like to stress once again that these budgets aim to reflect the democratic plurality of this arc that we have in the Congress of Deputies, a situation that welcomes the different sensitivities expressed in the ballot boxes by the whole of Spanish society. The political groups can - and it is their obligation - table amendments to improve the text throughout its procedure and we are going to invite them to do so, but the debate we are having here today is not that of a specific heading, the question is whether we want our country to continue with unserviceable budgets in the worst health, economic and social crisis in our democracy or to have the capacity to have real solutions to the real problems that citizens have. [[Applauds]] If we let go of the opportunity to rebuild our economy by taking advantage of the advantages of digitization or ecological transition, if we renounce to stimulate the creation of competitive jobs, if we refuse to improve and strengthen the welfare state, this is the question that is being discussed here today: continue with budgets that hinder the recovery of the country or allow the processing of new ones that are the extraordinary response that is required at a time that is also extraordinary. And, ladies and gentlemen, the policy of cross-vets only leads to immobilism and frustration, and the current situation in Spain unfortunately cannot be allowed either. Initiatives are disqualified not because of their content, but because of who proposes them or who supports them. The debate of ideas is replaced by the negation of the adversary and the discrepancy in one part affects the whole, turning politics, as they see in recent weeks, into an impractical exercise. And this government is not going to give up the public space that must be built from politics by dialogue and reaching agreements beneficial to the majority, although this means giving in to something on the way. That is why we once again appeal to the responsibility of the moment, which does not involve either accession or a blank cheque to this Executive, but to park what we know is that it differentiates us from focusing on the important and the urgent, which is the exit from the crisis and the momentum necessary to project the best of ourselves. I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to move these reasons. There are four reasons, the four equally important. First, these budgets have to act as a lever for the social and economic transformation of this country, guiding the productive model towards digitization, ecological transition, R & D+i, training in 21st century competences or gender equality. The aim is for our economy to recover the path of growth and quality job creation as soon as possible. Secondly, these budgets are also a revulsive for the welfare state, a safety net, especially for the middle and working classes of our country, despite the deterioration it has suffered in previous years. Thirdly, they are the vehicle for channelling European funds, more than 27 billion from transfers, decisive for this recovery, especially for the private sector. And fourthly, and perhaps most decisively, they are the basis for a new social contract to close gaps in inequality, intergenerational gaps and territorial gaps. And allow me a few small reflections in this last sense because I think they are important. Ladies and gentlemen, our young people have been hit twice by two very different crises, the financial crisis of 2008 and the current one. We have a moral obligation to try to leave them with a better world, a sustainable and supportive world in which they can develop a project of full and satisfying life, in which they can be trained and educated in values and in which they find work that will enable them to live a dignified and emancipated life. No country can allow youth unemployment to become a structural problem. And in the same way we have a debt to our elders, who gave it all to build a democratic country that believes in freedom, harmony and equal opportunities, a precious legacy that we have an obligation to preserve for future generations and, therefore, it is up to us in justice to protect them and to guarantee them that they live with dignity. Before I go into the details of the public accounts, I will summarise the situation in our country prior to the pandemic. Fiscal consolidation was progressing; the general government deficit closed in 2019 by 2.86 %, below the 3% required by the Stability Pact, and the budget execution in the first quarter reflected that this level of government deficit in the central government was continuing to be reduced. Similarly, public debt had a good downward trajectory, more than three points of decline over the past two years. Our country had growth rates that almost doubled those in the euro area, that is, our economy was at a positive stage of growth. Employment continued to grow and the unemployment rate was the lowest in the last 11 years, falling below 14%. Social Security affiliations maintained growth of more than 2%. 95% of the employment created since October was full-time employment and 84% indefinite. Household incomes grew to 5.8%, well above the economy as a whole. As you can see, the evolution of the country was positive, and this was seen by all national and international agencies with optimistic predictions. However, we knew that the Spanish economy was dragging a number of imbalances that we had to correct, mainly high structural unemployment, especially among young people, job insecurity and the low level of investment in innovation and continuing training. We had to increase productivity, the size of our businesses and reduce the growing inequality in income distribution, compounded by the existence of interterritorial inequality gaps. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, before the crisis there were more than 12 million people, that is, a quarter of our compatriots, at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Child poverty was one of the highest in Europe, affecting three out of every ten children. Only two out of ten young people under the age of 29 could be emancipated. For this reason, the progressive coalition government had and has a road map embodied in the investment agreement, the 2030 Agenda and the sustainable development goals. This road map, as defined by the President of the Government in his investiture speech, is based on four principles: social justice, defence of public services, freedom, and social cohesion and territorial dialogue. Just two months after the formation of the Government, the evolution of the pandemic forced our country to declare the first state of alarm on 14 March. The goal, as you well know, was to curb the contagion curve, save lives and relieve pressure on the health system, measures that restricted mobility or economic and social activity. They know that most countries have taken similar measures, which has resulted in a sudden, pronounced stoppage of economic activity. The second quarter of the year was undoubtedly dramatic for most European economies, and from the process of de-escalation a gradual recovery that the experts define as asymmetrical grapes began to be observed, a recovery that was expressed in the third quarter in a consistent way and that will be slowed by the evolution of this second wave in almost all the world. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need to tackle the pandemic effectively and decisively, because, indeed, to the extent that we are able to control health developments, the economy rebounds. This requires strict implementation of the preventive measures that we all know and close and loyal coordination of all public administrations, but above all unity of political and social action. Ladies and gentlemen, the impact of the pandemic is measured not only in health and economic terms, but also in inequality, because the main risk factor after the age of HIV/AIDS is poverty, living in depressed areas, in reduced housing or having precarious work. We could say that the pandemic acts as a magnifying glass over inequality. Therefore, fighting the causes of inequality is not only a question of social justice, but a way to combat the spread of the virus and to cushion its effects on health and the economy. And they know that the Government has turned into a battery of measures aimed at strengthening the capacities of the health system; supporting businesses, self-employed people and workers by maintaining their incomes, or protecting vulnerable families and groups. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, it is pertinent to ask us why economic contraction has affected Spain in this way. There is no doubt that we need to talk about this rigorously, because sometimes we try to associate incapacity for management and nothing further from reality. The reasons are multiple, ladies and gentlemen. We had one of the earliest and most severe confinements, and our productive structure is based on sectors very affected by the restriction of mobility or by the breakdown of the global value chain, as well as other factors that I mentioned at the beginning of my intervention, in which this Government had a defined road map to try to combat these structural imbalances. Overall, the measures launched this year amount to EUR 216 billion; look, ladies and gentlemen, it is a figure close to 20% of GDP, which reflects the enormous effort that the country as a whole has made. At this point, I would also like to thank employers and trade unions for the work they have done in the framework of the social dialogue, which has undoubtedly been an example of a height of vision and loyalty to this country. [[Applauds]] I am not going to expand on the battery of measures because they are well known, but I would like to point out that if they had not been adopted, the fall in GDP could have reached 25%, and I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the loss of employment could have affected three million people. And we continue to do so every day; every week this Government continues to take measures to protect and help citizens overcome this crisis. This is a government that works tirelessly to ensure that Spanish and Spanish have access to the necessary means of protection to prevent infection. In fact, in terms of the pandemic, we have distributed more than 100 million masks for free, without accounting for those that have in turn been distributed on their own by the autonomous communities themselves or by local entities. We have made it possible for masks and other protective material in health centres to have a zero VAT rate and, also, we were one of the first executives of the European Union to regulate the maximum price of masks in April, with the aim of making this product accessible to the whole population. And I can announce to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are going to take one more step and we are going to lower the VAT on masks from 21 % to 4 %. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And we do... [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u3	Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I was saying, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u5	Wait, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u6	Looks like someone didn't like the news. [[Applauds]] It never rains to everyone's liking, ladies and gentlemen. He said we do it because we are a sensitive government, attentive to people's problems, a government that listens... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u8	But we are also a responsible government and we take this decision once the European Commission confirmed to us in writing yesterday afternoon, after consultation on this issue carried out earlier days, that it will not initiate infringement proceedings against our country for failing to comply with the Community directive. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, you know that VAT on masks for particular use is regulated by Community legislation which prohibits the application of reduced rates to these products and is recognised by the European Commission itself in its letter of yesterday. That is precisely why, and in order to rule out the risk that the Spaniards would have to pay a million dollar fine for failing to comply with a directive, we have waited to lower the VAT on masks to have guarantees in writing that Spain will not be sanctioned. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u10	This Government will never put this country at risk for non-compliance with a rule, but it will act in the right way. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] That is why, despite the bad news that it seems to some - due to the noise of the People's Party bench - I say to you that next Tuesday this government will bring to the Council of Ministers a royal decree-law that lowers VAT on disposable masks from 21 to 4%. I'll let you know, too... [[Rumors]] Wait, ladies and gentlemen, don't get nervous that we just started the debate. I also inform you that this Government will be vigilant in ensuring that the reduction in VAT translates into a reduction in the price for the final consumer and not a greater business margin. [[Applauds]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that we are going to lower the maximum selling price for surgical masks to the public again and that the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Prices of Medicinal Products will therefore address this issue on the agenda tomorrow. Facts, honors, facts, facts, facts. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] We are confident that both measures will help alleviate many families by facilitating the purchase of these products, which are essential to prevent contagion and control the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, this titanic effort that we are making and that we have done so far has had a great impact on public accounts. It is estimated that the general government deficit will be 11.3 % of GDP this year, although it is important to note that this is a cyclical deterioration; in fact 95 % of the measures are temporary and therefore will not generate additional expenditure in the coming years. For the same reasons, it is essential to correct these bases in order to be better prepared for future circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a crisis of this magnitude, the paths that governments can choose and different answers are different; one passes by gaining competitiveness by precarishing the middle or working class, weakening the welfare state and increasing inequality - that is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what we are living, unfortunately, after the financial crisis that you managed - and another is the one that is betting on growing from innovation, digitalisation, the ecological transition, to strengthening the welfare state and equal opportunities. Two responses have their origin in a different conception of society by different political formations. For some - People's Party and VOX - the State has to be a minimum state, that does not interfere, that does not touch anything, not even the guarantee of citizens or economic activity; for this government, no; for this government the State is the guarantor of social cohesion, of the social and democratic stability of the country and also has an irrefutable mission: to act to promote the progress of all citizens, to promote social cohesion and to redistribute wealth. And not only that, ladies and gentlemen, the role of States is also crucial in promoting innovation, entrepreneurship, training or security, in investing resources to support our productive model. So we have acted accordingly and we do not opt or opt for the failed neoliberal recipes of the past that the People's Party executed and starred because we already know, ladies and gentlemen, where they lead us. In the previous financial crisis, the bank was rescued in our country; it is now the State that has come to the rescue of the country; in the face of increasing gaps in poverty and inequality, we have now protected the most vulnerable. You used the financial crisis as an excuse to weaken the welfare state and stifled the capacity of the autonomous state; in this crisis, the State Administration has been in debt to enable the autonomous communities to have greater resources and to meet needs in health, education or social services and, instead of weakening the autonomous state, we have strengthened it by incorporating co-governance. In short, in the face of the extreme austerity that you practice, we are now promoting countercyclical policies as, by the way, all national and international bodies recommend. Indeed, one of the main countercyclical measures has been the suspension of fiscal rules for 2020 and 2021. We had a debate on this issue recently in this House and I am not going to dwell on it, I will just insist on one idea: tax rules are suspended, but fiscal responsibility is not suspended, because, ladies and gentlemen, the sustainability of public accounts is irrefutable for this government because it is the guarantee of a strong welfare state. Our commitment to stability is already reflected in this budget. There is a reduction of the deficit planned for 2021 by 7.7% as a target, that is to say a reduction of 3.6 points, which is one of the biggest declines in the historical series that will be supported above all, ladies and gentlemen, in the improvement of incomes, in the evolution of the economic cycle, but not in the devaluation of the living conditions of the citizens, as you did in the previous crisis. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to design a detailed, sustained strategy for the gradual reduction of fiscal imbalances, which must begin to be implemented once we have overcome this pandemic; a strategy that must put the emphasis on improving the quality of our public finances between the different types of revenue and expenditure, so that we can guide the dynamism of this growth in the long term. Although the implementation of this strategy, as recommended by the experts, must be achieved once the economic effects of the crisis have been overcome, I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the basic aspects that have to be composed of it will have to be designed and, therefore, be able to take advantage of the expansive effects of the current fiscal measures. That is why the magnitude of the challenge is so great and needs to successfully address a comprehensive fiscal consolidation process that will require a comprehensive review of our tax system, our tax system, and all expenditure items from this point of view of efficiency; an objective on which this Government has been working since the first day through various instruments, for example, the AIReF documents, which will be facilitated by the implementation of these structural reforms proposed by this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, this time, Europe has understood the magnitude of the problem, a problem which threatened to put into check - I would say - the very concept of the European Union as an area of well-being, solidarity or citizen progress. That is why an ambitious package, a historic set of resources, has been put on the table so that the Member States can cope with this economic, social and health impact of up to EUR 750 billion, of which Spain has 140 000 between transfers and loans from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. It is essential, essential, that we seize this unique opportunity and do so with unity, that we do so as a country. This means coordinated work between administrations with the corporate fabric and the civil society as a whole. We are therefore going to address an exciting challenge, an unprecedented challenge, which will require extraordinary mobilization, as well as administrative, and regulatory adequacy to reduce potential barriers and speed up procedures to ensure that this implementation is swift and efficient, without losing any guarantee in relation to the principles of integrity, transparency and accountability. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share that it is clear that all analysts are watching with concern the evolution of the pandemic at international level and the uncertainty it entails for the economy. In Spain, the short-term indicators show a gradual recovery in the third quarter. In fact, a few days ago we had confirmation of the data: a 16.7% growth that confirms that our economy has the capacity to react when there is a scenario of confidence in the health field. So far, we have a clear improvement in the labour market, around 80% of ERTE workers have returned; Social Security has recovered more than 500 000 workers out of the 950,000 lost by the end of April, and other indicators such as credit card spending, electricity consumption or billed sales are showing positive developments. However, I want to tell you that this crisis is dynamic and therefore any forecast has to be analysed from that prudence, including possible scenarios of risk of worsening or slowing down. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the macroeconomic scenario envisages that this year the GDP will close with a fall of 11.2%, while by 2021 we estimate inertial growth, that is, without additional support measures, of 7.2%, in line with the main agencies and analysts; and we estimate that this growth will reach 9.8% with the actions of the Recovery Plan, which mobilizes, I insist, 140 billion European funds, of which already this budget this year contains 27 billion aimed at different areas. The objective is nothing other than to anticipate as much as possible the fiscal stimulus to boost the economy in these months, guaranteeing, of course, an optimal level of execution, so that public investment also serves as a call for confidence for private investment, which is so necessary. However, just as the impact of the crisis has been asymmetrical in sectors and territories, the rate of growth will also be uneven and, logically, it will be slower in those sectors or territories most affected by the application of restrictive measures to contain the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on a couple of considerations on the design of these new budgets. The first is the need for a didactic exercise on the evolution of the headings and the origin of resources. We have an extended base budget and a new one that incorporates resources from Europe and, for this reason, it is not possible to make homogeneous comparisons, and I am honest when I refer it to this House. The magnitudes we are proposing are historical, they are exceptional, they cannot stand comparison with any previous budget proposals. The second consideration is that new documentation, the blue series, is included: cross-cutting reports analysing gender equality, child, youth and family protection, and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. What they seek is to analyze game by game and see if they meet the cross-cutting objectives that these priority policies pose to society as a whole. It is a road, ladies and gentlemen, which I have already announced to you that we are going to extend to all the public administrations in order to be able to detect where we find areas of improvement in both efficiency and in the implementation of these very important policies. At this point, I would like to thank all the government departments for their efforts to land and channel European funds - more than 50% - through investments or transfers to local authorities. It has been a titanic task for all departments and from here I would also like to express my gratitude. I will start by clearing up possible doubts about this matter, which is key for you to be able to properly evaluate these budgets. Indeed, one of the key features of the accounts is that it incorporates 26 634 million from European funds: 2436 from the EU-React and 24 198 from the Recovery Mechanism. 64% of these funds are geared towards increasing competitiveness and modernising our economy. In particular, we devote 17 210 million to the transformation of SMEs, the promotion of trade and tourism, the decarbonisation of the economy or the enhancement of research capacities. 34%, i.e. 8988 million, are aimed at strengthening the welfare state, ensuring the quality of public services at a key time to combat inequalities. In this section I would like to highlight the resources for health, education and culture; those intended to facilitate access to housing; and active policies for employment or improvement of dependency. In fact, of the 26 billion, as I said, more than half are transferred to territorial entities: 1489 million for local entities and 10,793 for autonomous communities. This is to be added to another 8 billion of the EU-React which are not included in the general budgets because they are directly integrated into the budgets. What we do in these accounts, ladies and gentlemen, is anticipate those resources via FLA so that no autonomous territory has any difficulty in implementing or implementing the funds to recover our economy. We have already pre-allocated some of the resources to the autonomous communities in an estimated way, namely 2873 million in environmental policies and 1380 million in housing policies. You have it in the investment annexes because, even, we have made the effort that Chapter 7 could have the territorial breakdown. I believe that this highlights this government's commitment to territorial administrations; ultimately, to our model of an autonomous state. Together with these European resources, the expenditure limit on budgets is constructed from the homogeneous expenditure ceiling, i.e. the one comparable to the current year, which amounts to 136,017 million, which is 6.6% more. To this amount must be added transfers to Social Security and Autonomous Communities, as well as all the subjects in which the General Administration of the State has taken over part of the deficit of these subsectors. As a whole, therefore, the non-financial expenditure ceiling added to these three amounts amounts to EUR 194 456 million. Ladies and gentlemen, an extraordinary figure, unprecedented, which has nothing compared to previous budgets. As I said at the beginning of my speech, these budgets apply fiscal and budgetary stability aimed at combating the effects of the crisis, laying the foundations for economic transformation and also for the country's social recovery so that we can put this situation behind us as soon as possible. But so important - and I wanted to stop at this - is to get out of the crisis at the first moment when we have the capacity to have the productive model, ladies and gentlemen, stop being so vulnerable. We need to gain competitiveness through innovation and value-added generation and, of course, we cannot increase the social inequalities that weaken social and territorial cohesion in our country. That is why I want to tell you that it is not about returning to the way we were before the crisis, because I think we can all share that this would not be optimal; what we have to aspire to, to aim for, is really to improve, to be able to overcome a previous situation that would once again place us in a state of vulnerability and, therefore, to promote all those structural changes in whose need we have so often agreed the whole of this House. Even in the work of the Commission for Reconstruction there are some of the inspiring policies reflected in these budgets. I would like to tell you that the work of your ladies and gentlemen in the Committee on Reconstruction has been extremely useful in enabling these budgets to drink from that source and to have that inspiration. [[Applauds]] And if not, ladies and gentlemen, is it or is it not necessary for our productive fabric to gain size? Is it necessary or not to gain competitiveness? Do we need to increase investment in R & D & i? Or that we increase the weight of industry in all our wealth? Is it not necessary to move forward on measures to combat climate change?, to improve the capacity of the health system, to strengthen it?, or to reduce depopulation in part of our country by designing close public services, ultimately taking advantage of digitisation? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if you agree that these problems are the ones that diagnose the situation in our country, we must now find a solution. And the solution here today is to approve these General State Budgets because the reason, the inspiration they bring, is to accelerate these transformations, it is to serve as a multiplier effect so that all these policies can be expanded and we can overcome this crisis situation that our generation has experienced. Because each euro invested in a green economy can generate three; the same applies to the digital economy which has a 19% impact on GDP or, for its part, the gender gap which only reduces our growth by 200 billion. And a third argument, ladies and gentlemen, is that our country is particularly well positioned to achieve this transformation. Therefore, the question again is: do we agree that this is the way to strengthen our economy, to regain our dynamism, to focus our future? If so, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are the lever to make it possible. And that is why the revenue chapter is also a substantial part of these public accounts. Tax revenue is expected to improve by 13% as a result of the forecast to improve the economic cycle and the consequent increase in tax revenue. We know that uncertainty, the situation in the international economy as a whole, is a factor that needs to be taken into account and, therefore, income forecasts are made on the basis of that information and the available projection. In this case, the reality is that tax revenues are behaving better than the economy, thanks in particular to government-driven measures, which have made it really a guarantee of income for families and workers. Tax collection is going to fall by 7.6% this year, although it is less than the fall in nominal GDP, and it is a sharp fall that also explains the strong recovery expected for 2021. In fact, our forecast is that the main fiscal figures - i.e. IRPF, VAT and company tax - will evolve in a positive way next year, both because of the improvement of the economy and because of the adjustments and reforms that are introduced in this budget. The increase in tax revenues, from our point of view, is realistic. In fact, in some taxes such as corporate taxes the collection in 2021 increases, but it is still going to be below the records of the year 2019. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, if we discount the impact of tax measures and the increase in tax revenues from European funds, the collection in 2021 is still below 2019. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the significant rise in tax revenues is explained by this year's fall in revenue, by the improvement of the economy next year and, also, by the positive impact of European funds together with the tax measures that we have already adopted. It is therefore a prudent forecast and in line with the data in the macroeconomic table. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to educate about the usefulness of tax figures in ensuring the sustainability and quality of the welfare state. I believe that this country deserves an in-depth debate on taxes, on its tax model, on the figures or the distribution of the basket of taxes between the various administrative levels and, of course, on international taxation and tax engineering practices that allow tax avoidance for those who precisely have a greater volume of resources. They know that this government aims to tackle a tax reform in order to restore that progressiveness that we have lost in previous legislatures and, ladies and gentlemen, to bring us closer to the European average. We aim for a fair, redistributive tax system, adapted to new economic models - especially digital ones, where borders cannot exist - and also for the economy to move towards financial and environmental sustainability. A fiscal policy, ladies and gentlemen, in which the most resources are contributed more, as the Constitution establishes, and therefore - I would like to make it very clear - which preserves the middle and working class, the self-employed and the SMEs, and not only preserves them, but also returns to them in the form of indirect income the overall collection through the policies that drive this draft budget. In this context of crisis, it seems to us more prudent to undertake this reform throughout the legislature, when we have overcome this situation and economic stability has been restored. That is why, as we have already announced in previous weeks, we will be setting up a group of experts to help us in the coming months in this crucial debate for the future of our country and for the sustainability of the welfare state. Faced with these accounts of the year 2021, what we do is apply small adjustments in the sense of recovering progressiveness, inducing healthy habits and adapting our system to the reality of the twenty-first century. You will see, in the context of the IRPF, that we propose to raise two points to higher labour incomes, ladies and gentlemen, to EUR 300 000; I would insist that more than EUR 300 000 be raised. This is a measure whose effect is limited to 0,07 % of taxpayers. Therefore, it is obvious that it does not fall on the middle class and increases the system's progressiveity. In the share of capital income, there is a three-point increase from EUR 200 000 in this case, an OECD recommendation which only affects 17 000 taxpayers out of a total of EUR 21 million. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a reform which introduces an adjustment which does nothing to harm neither middle classes nor working classes. Following also the recommendations of the AIReF and the European Commission, we will review the reduction in pension schemes. In particular, the maximum contribution amount for these plans is reduced from EUR 8000 to EUR 2000. It should be noted that most pension plan participants make much less than this €8000. According to AIReF itself, only 8% of those contributing more than EUR 4000 and 58% contribute less than EUR 1000. You will therefore be able to conclude that this measure is going to affect a smaller number of taxpayers on these plans, and above all it is going to incorporate a factor of progressiveness. In line with the agreements of the Toledo Pact, the joint reduction limit will be extended from EUR 8000 to EUR 10 000. Both joint measures increase the progressive nature of tax incentives but, above all, encourage long-term savings within the framework of labour relations. In addition, the existing limits for the application of the module regime are extended by 2021. This is a measure - you know it - which offers security, legal guarantee and help to the self-employed at times that are particularly difficult. In the corporate tax, this Government argues that it is necessary to combat the collection losses that cause the actual rate, especially that of large companies, to be far removed from the nominal rate. While, as I said, we will deal with it throughout the legislature, we will include in the budgets a limit of 95 % of the current 100 % exemption for the capital gains and dividends generated by subsidiaries, a measure which affects large companies and whose implementation in small and medium-sized enterprises will be accompanied by account being taken of the economic situation. In fact, those whose turnover is less than EUR 40 million will be able to continue to apply this 100 % exemption over the next three years. In short, it could affect this set of measures to 1739 companies of the more than one and a half million corporate tax declarants; again, ladies and gentlemen, a tax adjustment that affects 0.12% of all companies in our country. And do you know what other countries are implementing these kinds of measures? France, Italy and Germany are doing so, so what we are doing is modernising our tax system and, above all, bringing it closer to this European consensus. We have already said that we are committed to a greater effort by those who have more capacity, and that is why we also establish that the property tax is indefinite; this will provide legal certainty on this tax. There is also an increase in the tax on the last tranche, from 2.5% to 3.5% for assets over EUR 10 million - I would insist, ladies and gentlemen, on assets over EUR 10 million - which is, above all, going to have a positive impact on the autonomous coffers, where we are willing to move towards greater fiscal harmonisation, a position that many of the groups present in this House share. Taxing VAT increases the tax to 21% on sugary and sweetened drinks with the aim of promoting healthy habits; it is a recommendation of health experts to combat childhood obesity. It only affects the sale of these products in supermarkets and similar establishments. I want to say this, ladies and gentlemen: the consumption of these drinks in bars and restaurants will continue to tax 10%, so it does not harm the catering sector or the hospitality sector, which we have to protect right now. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, in the strategy of moving towards a productive model that is sustainable and environmentally friendly, the amendment of the hydrocarbon tax is framed. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to bring diesel taxation closer to the price of petrol, as required by the Community authorities. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are the fifth country that pays less for environmental taxation in a proportional way, a situation that we clearly have to correct. And I also want to say that there are only two countries in the eurozone that have the lowest diesel tax than Spain and are Lithuania and Luxembourg. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what we are proposing is to reduce the tax bonus that diesel currently has, from the general state rate of diesel to 34.5 cents per litre, an amount that is still less than 40.07 cents per litre that gasoline currently has. It is an environmental measure that has no revenue collection and uses taxation as a means of reorienting our productive model and deterring aggressive behaviour towards the environment by citizens. One very important point I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, is that taxation on professional diesel and also on subsidized diesel remains unchanged. We are also updating, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance premium tax in this draft budget. I want to tell you that it's a tax that has a guy that hasn't been touched since 1998. The tax has risen from 6 % to 8 % and is much lower than that of Germany, by 19%, than that of the United Kingdom or Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, the overall impact of all these budgetary adjustments - which, as I have just broken down, clearly pursue progressivity or dissuasive conduct with regard to the environment or unhealthy habits - amounts to EUR 1862 million; these are balanced measures which, as I say, are in line with the recommendations of the international bodies. There are other measures that have an impact on the draft budgets, I am referring, for example, to the digital tax and the financial transaction tax, two figures which were recently approved by this House. And I would also like to say to you that the tax on non-reusable plastic packaging and the state waste tax are in the process of being introduced into their respective laws. These measures, together with the law against tax fraud, which is already in this House, will lead to an increase in revenues of 4223 million by 2021, thus contributing to the financing of the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, we already know that the opposition groups are going to pull hyperboles and will talk - they have already spoken - about hacking or tax inferno. However, the reality is that when these budgets are approved, our tax system will be more progressive, fairer, more modern, more ecological and, above all, more in line with European standards. It will be a better tax system prepared, albeit not entirely, to accompany the challenges and challenges that we face as a society and that affect the daily and direct lives of all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now going to talk to you about expenditure policy, something some groups have not commented on during this process before the debate that brings us to this House today. It would be impossible for me to make a material review of all the policies, but I will try to stick to those aspects that I understand are more relevant and of those that have all the information in the documentation they have. They are expansive public accounts, which have the highest social spending in our history as a whole. In fact, they include the increased resources that have existed for public health, dependency, pensions, scholarships, study or the fight against child poverty. We had never before incorporated such a volume of resources into the development of policies that are the hallmarks of equal opportunities. Social expenditure amounts to 239 765 million, accounting for 53.7% of the total budget; a budget therefore of a marked social nature. It is up 10% more than the previous year, including the 8908 million European funds. Without these funds - for you to see the effort of the regular budget - social spending would have grown at a rate of 6% and this is because all that has to do with social guarantees is in the DNA of this executive. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to allocate a very large volume of resources to make these policies possible. And against those who argue that this social spending is wasteful, look at what all the international bodies - the Monetary Fund, the OECD or the European Union - say that it is time to invest and spend well to boost the economy and not repeat the mistake of the financial crisis. They are therefore balanced budgets. Economic measures also rise by 67 %, incorporating EUR 17 200 million, the national part increases by 8.9 %, so that the weight of these measures on the total is 12 %. I now turn to the main actions, starting with health, of course, which is one of the major priorities of these public accounts, because it is urgent and necessary to continue to strengthen the capacity of our health system in the face of this pandemic. We need to improve the possibility of response, both preventive and assistance. And for those of you who were not clear, ladies and gentlemen, that public health must be shielded, I hope that during this pandemic at least this has been learned. That is why health policy is rising by 75.3% next year, if we take European funds into account. In total, we will have €7330 million, and the Ministry of Health is multiplying its budget by ten. It strengthens public health: 1 billion for vaccines or 5 million for the new public health agency, which is a commitment of the Reconstruction Commission. We will strengthen primary care with 1088 million. We will activate a 400 million technological renewal plan to make a bid for modernisation, for innovation in our health system, and also for digital transformation, with more than 295 million. Very important is also the departure for other diseases to continue to have an adequate response; I am referring to cancer, mental health or rare diseases. We also expand oral health and the exemption from the pharmaceutical coffer, which will benefit six million people. You will see that it is a health policy that will be revitalized at a time when citizens have to know that for this Executive the main thing, the priority is to fight the pandemic, to stop the virus from spreading and, from there, to recover our economy. [[Applauds]] Social services policies, social promotion policies, are increasing by 70%; they rise to 2147 million, to 5200 million, a figure that has no comparison in our history. The aim is not only to cover vulnerable groups and better protect them from the crisis, but also to ensure that the welfare state contributes to economic recovery through the care economy. In particular, the unit receives the largest funding in its history, rises by 34.4%, 602 million more to improve the amounts at the minimum level and at the agreed level. This dependency will benefit more than a million people. [[Applauds]] Prevention of child poverty is increasing by 59 per cent, so that 1,140,000 children can grow up in fairer conditions. To this must be added the 3000 million of the minimum living income, reaching 850 000 households; the fight against gender-based violence, which incorporates 180 million in compliance with the state pact, or the implementation of the Correspondent Plan, with 200 million, to offer reconciliation solutions to families with children under 14 years of age, and another 300 million will enable maternity and paternity leave to be equalled, untransferable and remunerated to 100 per cent, so that never again the fact of being pregnant or having a child has consequences on our career path. [[Applauds]] For its part, education policy rises by 70%, reaching 4893 million. As you will see, this is the 70% rule: 70% for health, 70% for social services and 70% for education policy. In fact, four out of every ten euros will guarantee equity through scholarships; 2090 million in scholarships, ladies and gentlemen, so that no student, for rent reasons, can be left behind. We will expand with 200 million education from 0 to 3 years, key in early development, therefore, in the success of talent and also in family and work reconciliation. We are going to make a shock plan for vocational training with EUR 370 million. We will prevent school drop-out with the allocation of 78 million. We will digitize our educational centres, teacher training or the reduction of the digital divide with a very important item, 996 million, aimed at what is important to our Executive: the development of the full potential of our children. In fact, there will be more than 200 million for modernization and digitisation projects at university level. Therefore, talent and commitment to international mobility. On the other hand, we are going to revalue the salary of two and a half million public employees, whose contribution has been and remains essential in these hard months. We also guarantee almost 10 million pensioners that they will maintain their purchasing power. The contribution and non-contributory pensions will increase in 2021, ladies and gentlemen, as we committed, by 0.9% and 1.8%, respectively. [[Applauds]] I believe that we are all aware of the important effort we are making as a government for the sustainability of social security, we are taking on so-called inappropriate expenses and also a share of the deficit. That is why I would like to appreciate very positively the progress made in the Toledo Pact, which must culminate in the voting on the recommendations in plenary. Iprem, the benchmark for aid, is rising by 5 %, the largest increase since its creation. Employment promotion policies also rise by 29.5 %. They will have 7405 million - almost 17 billion added to those with the base budget - although if we do not take these European funds into account, it would even increase by 8.6%. Most of these resources are recruitment incentives, especially for groups with difficulty in accessing employment. We estimate that 650,000 people will benefit from these bonuses. Some of these resources -910 million - are also earmarked for employment opportunities for people with disabilities or 107 million for employment promotion programmes in regions with a high rate of structural unemployment, such as Andalusia, Extremadura or the Canary Islands. Vocational training for employment will have 2771 million of which I would like to highlight more than 600 for a youth employment shock plan. This three-year plan aims to reduce the youth unemployment rate to 23.5 %. Along with all this, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we show that the protection of the unemployed has been and is one of the priorities of this Government. In fact, in the budgets the unemployment policy rises by 20%, reaching 25 billion and I want to say that it is a heading that will allow us a vessel communicating with the ERTE envelope, so that we can - depending on how the health pandemic evolves - continue to protect those groups that are most punished by this crisis or those sectors that have not yet been able to recover due to the restriction of mobility. The policy that rises the most in the entire budget, 368 %, is housing policy, which receives a large amount of European funds, namely 1651 million. The rehabilitation of housing, the improvement of energy efficiency, has to be one of the priority vectors for economic recovery. Even so, housing policy rises by 25% in the national contribution excluding these European funds and, fundamentally, it does so in order to promote affordable rent - especially for young people - with particular attention also to those who may be evicted. Thus, the plan to increase affordable rental housing by 20 000 is 100 million and 351 million are allocated to housing subsidy schemes that will improve these conditions of rental aid. The Culture heading rises by 25%, with the basic objective of minimizing the impact of the pandemic in this sector, encouraging - as not - a cultural offer of quality and the impetus of the internationalization of Spanish culture. And ladies and gentlemen, this executive wants to move with absolute clarity that culture is essential to contribute to the growth of our country; not only to social growth, but above all to economic growth, but above all to equal opportunities between different people. [[Applauds]] For this reason, the policy of Culture is specially taken care of in the part of the regular budget and, therefore, I want to emphasize that it will be aimed at all the sectors that make up this ministry, where they know there are different sensibilities, different expressions that will be able to benefit and will be able to protect their volume of activity until this pandemic passes and we can return with absolute normality to the wonderful public shows offered by Spanish culture. Industry and energy policies, which are key to the transformation of the economic model, will have 11,166 million, almost double what we had thanks to the contribution of European funds. Also 665 million for the reconversion and reindustrialisation programme. We reinforce aid to the automotive industry, 250 million of the Plan Renew, remember, a plan that was presented prior to the presentation of these public accounts and regional incentives to industrial location to generate territorial cohesion or energy policies, which will have about 63 billion to deepen in renewable and sustainable sources. Here we also frame 109 million of the thermal social bonus so that no person will be left unprotected in the face of the temperatures, for example, of this next winter. Another strategic area in the budget is research, development, innovation and digitisation. I would say that it is an essential policy also to boost economic growth, but above all, inclusiveness, competitiveness and productivity. In particular, the R & D+i policy rises by 80% to 11 483 million, excluding military R & D+i. That is, only the civilian climbs 80%. Important parts of the European funds are incorporated, and we are trying to provide the most important funding in the history of democracy for science and innovation and also to continue to increase security, a stable framework for our researchers, for the professional career of our researchers, in short, so that research is not a task of heroes, but really a vocation that can develop every child who has talent, perseverance and, above all, wants to bet on the future. In fact, the accounts make it possible to increase resources for public research bodies, to move forward with this stabilization of the scientific career, but also to support business projects that may prove to be at the forefront. With regard to digitisation, it goes through virtually all cross-cutting policies, so it is intended to take a giant step in public administrations so that, in turn, it will act as a tractor for the productive fabric and for society as a whole. These budgets provide for 1793 million in the telecommunications technological innovation programme and 336 million in the information society research and development programme. I do not think there is any need to go further, ladies and gentlemen, in that we need to speed up the development of the so-called data economy, which is key to managing knowledge within public administrations and to making better resource planning. We therefore need to increase this competition and we will continue to do so. On the other hand, trade, tourism and SME policy rises by 150% to EUR 2230 million. It is a clear bet, trade and SMEs have to accelerate their digital transformation, they have to move forward in green transition, ensure an efficient and inclusive labour market and also face the demographic challenge, as I said, key in all policies to stimulate the economy. The self-employed have a specific heading, they are a priority group within these public accounts, as shown by the provision for the cessation of activity, which we have already approved and which has benefited one and a half million self-employed and which also, ladies and gentlemen, both the extension of the estimation by module and the different policies that are developed in the budget, undoubtedly have a special look directed towards that group. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by transferring that the great investor stake in these budgets lies in the infrastructure and resilient ecosystems, which are endowed with 11 527 million, which is 115% more than in previous budgets. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is going to be very important investment in our country, and what we are trying to do is to serve social and territorial cohesion, which, as I said, is dynamic in certain sectors of our economy and which preserve environmental sustainability. The total investment in infrastructure will amount to 10,025 million, among which I highlight: European rail corridors, a highly expected and essential infrastructure to vertebrate our country and for the competitiveness of our productive model, corridors with an amount greater than 28 billion already in these budgets; network of closeness with 1800 million; ports with 1 billion; airports and air security with another 1051 million or 673 million for hydrological investments or 1273 million for the autonomous communities to implement infrastructures in the field of their competences. I leave myself, ladies and gentlemen, many performances in the tinker. I'll just make a quick point. Democratic memory, so necessary in these times, will receive 11 million. Agriculture, fisheries and food are growing by 10% to support this vital sector in the crisis. Justice, 7.6% to boost access to the judicial and fiscal career. Defense increases its endowment by 5%, with 900 million for effective equality in our Army. Public security and prison institutions rise by 3.5%. And the development cooperation programme is growing by 20%. I wanted to point out this last programme, ladies and gentlemen, because Spanish society is not endogamic, it is not only looking at itself, but also at the outside world, at those who are more vulnerable and the budget for development cooperation in these public accounts is also growing by no more than 20%. [[Applauds]] In the territorial section, the transfers with which our autonomous system will count will reach a record financing of 146,008 million euros, a very eloquent figure of what the Government understands as an autonomous model and the essential role it gives to the communities in the reconstruction of the country. The same applies to the municipalities, which also benefit - in particular, a share of 1483 million to, among other things, improve urban, metropolitan and city transport - as well as local corporations, which will have resources to help all their neighbours. Without a doubt, ladies and gentlemen, these are important items, but the most important is the suspension of fiscal rules, which will allow the municipalities to spend their leftovers - amounting to EUR 15 billion - making a historic demand for our country's municipalism a reality. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. I hope I have conveyed the opportunities for progress that these budgets represent for our children, for our girls, for young people, for the elderly, for the self-employed, for women and for SMEs. In these budgets everyone can look, everyone can be reflected in some item or initiative. They're extraordinary accounts. The context in which they are born, the objectives they pursue, the amounts they contain, everything is extraordinary. It is urgent that our country be able to count on these new accounts to enable it to rise from this blow that we have received, to stand up and to take the necessary momentum. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has taught us that we are more vulnerable than we thought, but also that we are a people who, when we come up with a common goal, have achieved it since unity. Ladies and gentlemen, the disagreement is healthy in democracy, it allows the contrast of ideas, always necessary. I hope that this disagreement that we profess is the origin of the consensus that we need today, now. We have never had this imperative need for our immediate present, but also for our future as a country. I bid farewell, ladies and gentlemen, to the words of Dr. José Eugenio Guerrero when he received the Princess of Asturias Prize of Concordia, granted this year to health professionals. He said, 'There was discouragement, infinite tiredness, tears, fear, but we always got up again because surrender was not an option.' Ladies and gentlemen, our healthcare professionals do not give up, the Spanish and Spanish do not give up. Let us support them, let us live up to what this country needs: a draft budget. They support these public accounts so that politics also contributes its sand granite so that we can recover as soon as possible, but above all, without leaving anyone behind. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u11	Thank you, Minister. The meeting was suspended until 15 a.m. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended at 1.20 minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We move on to the debate on the amendments to the General State Budgets Bill for the year 2021. Seven amendments have been tabled to the full refund of the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2021. To defend the amendments tabled by your groups, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u13	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin this intervention in the debate on the whole of the State's General Budgets by reminding the more than 400 victims of the coronavirus yesterday. Look at the size, more than we have in this Chamber, and at the sum not recognised by the Government of over 70,000 people already killed by COVID, almost as much population as my hometown. This is a terrible drama and the truth is that we do not understand, Mr Sánchez, why you do not put yourself at the forefront of the management of this second wave which, unfortunately, already puts Spain again at the head of the infection rate and also of mortality. We do not understand why it is still parapeted in the autonomous communities and, moreover, we do not understand how it has not yet given explanations for the state of alarm of six months, although it did not appear to defend it here in the House a few days ago. You have to remember Jefferson's words - now that we're on the American agenda - that the price of freedom is his perpetual vigilance. That is what Parliaments are for, and parliamentary democracies are appearing in the Courts, not in improvised Sunday homilies in the media. I therefore thank you for at least being here to defend the draft State General Budgets Act in a horse's nail processing, skipping all the deadlines that have usually been followed in the forty years of democracy. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the pillar of parliamentarianism already since 1188 in the first Courts of the world, in León, is the defence of this budgetary agenda and that article 134 of the Constitution requires the Government to present it three months before the end of the year, which you have also failed to comply with. I would therefore like to make three points in this debate. The first is that this coincides with the first anniversary since the last general elections and, therefore, what political context surrounds the presentation of these public accounts; the second will be about what these public accounts contain, and the third will be in which future context we can move as the main opposition party and main force in the European context. First of all, the balance that you have had in the past year is a triple crisis: institutional crisis, health crisis and social and economic crisis. It is true that this was not the first time the government tried with its current coalition allies; it tried it in 2016, and that is why they kicked him out of his party; it tried it in 2018 in the motion of censure, and it got it half-hearted; it tried it in April 2019, and it was already out of line in the fourth ministry with Churches; and it consumed it just a few hours after the elections in the famous hug pact without calling anyone and quoting the opposition a month later. That 'Frankenstein Government' of which the late Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba was speaking and which Felipe González more recently called 'the Marx brothers' cabin' put land through all his electoral promises. Yes, a year ago I remember discussing with you on television and you promised that you would never agree with a party that would take your dream away and that Churches would never be in your government. - Well, there it is, in the blue bank. He also said that he was offended to be asked if they were going to agree with Bildu, and today Churches said that politics is the art of what is not seen, when they asked him what they gave Bildu to support these budgets. He also said that not only was he not going to agree with Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, he was going to legislate to re-enact the illegal referendum, and right now he is also bringing in accounts agreed with Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia. Therefore, Mrs Montero, to say that these are country budgets when they bring the stamp of Bildu, of the Republican Left and of the most radical party that is part of a European Union government, such as Podemos, I think it is not the best definition. [[Applauds]] You said that you were going to come to regenerate public life, to promote decency in public life, but you had to dispense with two ministers just in the first month and now you have the Dina case, the Doñana case, with the shellfish and their friends, the Delgado case or the Neurona case, which perhaps later Mr Echenique can give us more information about. And you have several ministers involved in cases of tax evasion, which Mrs Montero forgot to remember when she was talking about the fight against tax fraud, because I believe that here, on the government's blue bench, they can give us an accelerated course. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we ask you to explain to us what has been agreed, and I also say this on a day when the killers of Ascension and Alberto Jiménez-Becerril have been brought to prisons near the Basque Country. Out of respect for your sister, who is in this House, and out of respect for Spanish democracy, you should explain what you have agreed with Bildu. But there has also been an institutional crisis, and that crisis that we have been talking about has made his Government the very alarm of the State, has made it possible for the Nuclear Security Council, the CNMC, to be able to put its vice president on the CNI, to have the CIS and Spanish Radio-television service, to have appointed last week two permanent advisers of the Council of State without any agreement with the opposition - the first time it happens in democracy and not much has been heard -, has made it possible to clear the entire dome of the Civil Guard in full state of alarm, or, for example, to raise a law of kicking at the door for the tax office; we will no longer be able to know if it is the milkman who calls at five in the morning, and at best it is people of the Tax Agency of Mrs Montero. He has tried to assault judicial independence, if we hadn't stopped it, in Europe, and he has tried to pose a ministry of truth to control what happens on social networks and the legitimate criticism that the media that are not at his service do. And there has also been a crisis in this institutional crisis in the face of historical revisionism, questioning the legacy of the transition, the role of the parliamentary monarchy and the Constitution itself and even international consensus, as we have seen this week with this dramatic journey of Mr. Iglesias to Bolivia with an agenda parallel to that of the Head of State. In the end, the balance of this crisis is erial, Mr Sánchez. However, there has also been a health crisis, a crisis that to date the CIS of Tezanos says has left a very bad place for its government for 60% of Spaniards. A crisis that has been characterized by lies; lies by hiding the alerts when we were going to live on it to go to the demonstrations; lies for a committee of experts that did not exist and still does not exist; lies for those scams and bargains, said by Mrs González Laya, of fraudulent masks and testing; lies when until a few hours ago they said that masks could not have reduced VAT because they would be prevaricating and, however, kept it for a television broadcast in the State's General Budgets six months after the European Union allowed it. [[Applauds]] The second feature in this health crisis has been incompetence; incompetence to protect our heroes from white robes and green masks, which in their case had to go to garbage bags and diving glasses; incompetence to avoid contagion, with the vice president saying that it was because of the latitude in which we were, the straight line between New York and Beijing, or because we were hugging ourselves a lot and because there was a much larger population, but the case is that they did not manage to do so either with computer applications or with any kind of contact plan and their contagions, as it was done in Germany, Japan or Korea; and incompetence at the time of even counting the dead, which you still do not recognize today, and that neither have allowed to be investigated, as in countries like France and Italy, where your president has appeared before the courts, and here they have the prosecution, who already know who depends, in order to prevent this from happening. There's also been a lot of arrogance. Arrogance in the propaganda of the'strongest exits'; in declaring vanquished the pandemic and defeated the virus, there on July 4th; likewise, to go on vacation and parapet in other public administrations, when the law mandates him to take over the command; and also by not wanting or voting for that state of alarm, under the coat and coat of arms, or appearing every two months. From there we move to the social crisis, to that triple crisis balance this year. It's a social crisis that reminds me, now that Olof Palme's killer has been found, that phrase that is attributed to him - I think I once told him -. In a chat many years ago, with his Portuguese counterpart, he told him, after the Revolution of the Claveles, that he was very happy because in Portugal they were going to end all the rich, to which Palmer replied that what they wanted was to end poverty, with the poor. - A Social Democrat. It seems that in that social crisis, in that kind of not leaving anyone behind, you want to end everything that creates wealth, that creates jobs, that attracts investment and, therefore, that generates opportunities and economic growth. This has been seen in the Reconstruction Commission, which was a sadistic trap, in which you did not believe, and that is why you have not complied with any of the conclusions. That's why you had to confess in Italy that you never raised a pact with the People's Party, because if you didn't disappear, like the Pasok. I've already told you: eye, maybe it happens like Tsipras and Varoufakis. However, we propose our support for three extensions of the state of alarm and seven economic decrees. We also said that we disagreed with that mantra that they weren't going to leave anyone behind, because they did. They have done so in education, with an educational counter-reform, with an ideological burden, against freedom and against the common language of the Spaniards. They have done so with housing, defending price fixing against private property and endorsing illegal occupation. They have also done so with the residences of the elderly, without doing anything at all, with the competence of the Social Vice-Presidency. They have done so in the social engineering of moral laws, which even well-known feminist activists on the left are blaming their government partners. They have also done so with pensions, since the People's Party had to come, when its partners got up from the Toledo Pact, to agree on them, even when you had not put much room for it. And they've also done it with the famous social shield. We told him that the social shield was employment, but that's not what they've been talking about. They have not said that there are almost 4 million unemployed in Spain or that there are already 1 million families with all their members unemployed or 1.8 million families who have to go to the food bank. They did not mention that minimum living income reached only 13% of those who requested it. Nor are they talking about the fact that unemployment affects young people and women to a large extent. He knows that there are two ways for everyone to move forward, so that no one is left behind, because we can all have state policies that allow us to help them to move forward. However, you continue to pose the dichotomy between health and economy, which is like breathing and eating, and you do not realize that the productive fabric in Spain can no longer bear it. This is not a question of turning on or off, it is a question of having a stable policy in the medium term to create jobs and opportunities. Mrs Montero said that these budgets are the end of austerity, but she is wrong. These budgets, as it happened in 2009, with the last budgets that Mr Solbes put forward, are the beginning of austerity, because they are accounts almost based on what happened ten years ago. That is what has happened even with the position on expenditure, on income and on what happened a few months later by having to apply cuts that, right now, are absolutely unprecedented in democratic history. There is a symmetry between the lack of courage to take leadership in the face of the health crisis, as you have parapeted in the autonomous communities, and the lack of courage to create employment, as you have delegated directly to the European Union's rescues and aid. What are you for, then, Mr. Sanchez? However, let us now move on to the content of the general budgets. Why do you introduce them to your partners? I would remind you that on three occasions you have not had any interest in knowing the issues raised by the People's Party. In November, we told him that he could not depend on Podemos if he came to an alliance with the non-radical parties in this House. - Of course, as I told you, he hugged him in thirty hours. In February, I gave him only two conditions to talk about public accounts, which were not to appoint a socialist deputy as prosecutor general or to continue with the independence table with Mr Torra. He didn't pay any attention. And in September, where - as you know very well - I asked you in your office that we should have joint action on European reconstruction on three fundamental issues - which I will then comment on - and that you did not make any case either. In the end, we heard from the press. That is the desire you had to present the content of the budgets. In the last week, another amendment of the whole of the AIReF, of the Bank of Spain and of the Community institutions has been added to this amendment. This could be an opportunity to give a message of reformism and a plan of stability and growth. However, they have preferred demagogic clientelism and electoralism at the expense of our grandchildren, to pay the debt - as one of their ministers said - and at the expense of the European Union. In short, an economic insolvency equal to the level of health insolvency. What background did you have, Mrs. Montero, that you said this morning? He did not intend to go into it, but, of course, his party's economic background is not very flattering. This is the third time that the Socialist Party, in twenty-five years, has left a brutal crisis in Spain, for different reasons, yes, but with the asymmetry that it has not affected this health crisis just like all countries. For an idea to be made, both in 1993 and 2009, and now, in 2020, are the quarters that historically have fallen the most GDP. And I have to tell you that when you said that the Socialist Party has always watched over social policy, you forgot what your leader voted for in Mr Zapatero's rescue plan; yes, 35% of debt was found; I left it at 70%. [[applause]] What Mr Zapatero did was to increase social policy by EUR 35 billion; 80%, for example, in the area of birth or dependency; 8% less in health, education, housing; 5% less in civil servants' salaries; a reduction in pensions; 200,000 less self-employed; 200,000 fewer businesses; 100,000 people who had to go to the rescue plan, then in those EUR 100 billion that the People's Party had to put; 3.5 million more unemployed, which the People's Party had to recover by 2.5 million in the following legislatures. In short, what do you presume? We already know where the expansive budgets go, to a crisis without palliatives. This is a deja vu; before they were green sprouts and now we're talking about the asymmetric grape; before it was the Champions League, now it's the high-end of success; before it was Plan E, now we're with the social shield. But in the end, we can sell what we did, even at the worst times, when we raised pensions up to 7 % widowhood and 3 % minimum; or what we did, for example, in health, when we raised the budget by 14 %, when there was no pandemic; or, for example, by creating 100 000 businesses or recovering jobs for 200 000 self-employed people. In short, just the opposite of what you have done and what you are proposing right now. Mr. Sanchez, your minister said that there was a Sanchez prior to the COVID and that this was just the fault of the infection. Well, no; we have seen that in the two years that Mr Sánchez has been doing the reforms shine for his absence. And that, what caused it? It has caused growth to have to be corrected before the pandemic; it has already caused consumer confidence to fall to 10% and vehicle registration to fall to 7%; or it has caused that while Sánchez was in government before the pandemic, there were 84,000 more unemployed, most of whom were women and young people. And what happened after the COVID? Well, some of the measures have been correct. We have supported some decree, such as that of the ERTE or that of the ICOs, although it seemed to us to be insufficient and probably late. However, there were decrees such as 9 and 10 that were tremendously pernicious; that economic stoppage which led to 100,000 companies, 800 000 jobs and 3 million Spaniards, who had to go to an ERTE. And then come their budgets, which are already wet paper; budgets in which there are the usual Ds of the Socialist Party. The first is depression; a depression that - as Mrs Calviño said, who is already acting as an economic Simon doctor - would not have a significant impact, but would only be transitory. In the end, this impact has been 13% of GDP, according to the IMF and even, according to its government, more than 11%. It is not a very exaggerated question if I tell you that these budgets are intended to do the impossible, Mrs Montero. These budgets intend to sell a policy of spending, let's say, one foot of 44 in a shoe of 38, in the forecast of revenues that are clearly false. Secondly, we have the D of the deficit, a deficit that, as Mrs Montero said in a corridor: that is arranged, little one, and that is -12 billion - anywhere. But, no, the deficit ultimately creates a budget bust of EUR 350 billion, and what it is doing is that a structural deficit, as the Bank of Spain has said, can lead us to ten years of very serious reforms for the future of our families. That auction that you have entered into to negotiate the budget has been that everyone was bidding for your departure and that you have given in signal the Community funds, because everyone knows that you always give more. And we're in debt. Mrs Calviño said that it is a debt that we will all have to pay, including our children and grandchildren; a debt that can lead us to have between our future forecast 30 000 euros, each, due to the public coffers, 7,000 more since Mr Sánchez holds the Presidency of the Government. Trying to fight a supply shock and a demand crisis trying to shrink only with policies of stimulus that shipwreck is like doing it with a strainer, and everyone knows - you have not said it - that now the greatest risk is to reach the third crisis, that is, the financial or the debt crisis. And we get to unemployment. Here is the Minister of Labour, who assumed that there were unemployment benefits for 5 million unemployed; good way to presume. It turns out that for these people, these Spaniards who are in this situation, there are 35% less indefinite contracts. We have seen that those who are in ERTE, still 700 000, can get to ERE; we have seen that there are 1 million self-employed people in the wire who can lose their jobs, and we have also seen that they present no proposal other than to recover the 800 000 unemployed during that crisis, and that they have the 140 billion euros given to them by the European Union. In short, while Sánchez is in government, there are 300,000 more women unemployed, 100,000 more young people unemployed and, yes, there are 100,000 more civil servants hired by the public purses; that must be their circular economy: more deficit and more debt than in the end what they are doing is creating more unemployment and less future for the Spanish. And we got to the waste. It is true that Vice-President Calvo says that public money is nobody's, but with 53% more spending at a time when Europe is rescuing us is as if a family with a benefit or subsidy what it does is to expand spending by 53% more. In the end, what is happening is that with this expenditure they are also covering plug-ins, for example, 100 % more in the office of advisors to the President of the Government, or 32 % more for advertising and propaganda, or 10 % more for high offices; in the end, 777 eventuals at the disposal of the propaganda machinery of the Moncloa. And lastly, the last D is to shoot the taxes, Mrs. Montero. Sánchez said that he would never - and he said categorically - raise taxes to the Spanish working middle class. Can you tell me who has a diesel car? Well, 17 million middle-class Spaniards. Can you tell me who has a policy? For 18 million insured households or 34 million households with an insurance vehicle. Can you tell me who drinks sugar drinks, or who uses single-use plastics, or who receives a job from those who are subject to corporation tax, or IRPF, or VAT? Or can you tell me who uses the technological elements you want to put a fee on, or who makes financial transactions? Those who have companies that employ a lot of Spaniards. The rest of the countries are doing the opposite, Mr Sánchez. In that I do not understand why we are also the exception. I am going to the last key point, which is the future of this budgetary policy and where it leads us. It brings us to Europe, it is true, and it is true that for that success in receiving European funds we must be very satisfied because it was three PP women who made the negotiation, both Merkel and Lagarde, and Von der Leyen; you have forgotten to say so, Mrs Montero. [[Applauds]] These European funds require responsibility, a responsibility that can prevent it from happening to you as in Berlanga's film Welcome, Mr Marshall, that the funds, or some of them, do not go far and, look, because that responsibility also goes against the ideological criterion for their use, now that we have celebrated the 31st anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall last week, although I already know that to Churches it seemed very bad news; it said that there were people who would lose fear if that happened - go if it lost -. We must think that the European Union with the Marshall Plan implemented an agenda against communism, not to sponsor it, and in this budget we have seen Mr Iglesias boast that it is a budget commensurate with the communism and populism they represent. Let's take a look at it. The Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, EUR 140 billion, which will also be subject to the rule of law, which you, as the European Union has told you, do not comply with in all matters and which is also financing not the current expenditure. To give an example, they are financing a family to buy appliances, not to pay for the light. If you are not able to bear in the current expenditure budget, it is of no use to you the investment that European funds can finance. Keep that in mind. Then there is the ECB's aid, which is financing the sovereign debt of Spanish at EUR 300 billion, this year more than EUR 130 000. The problem is the herd effect, if Spain lags behind in the recovery of the other countries - hopefully with the vaccine we can all get ahead - the ECB cannot have policies of stimulus and liquidity only for Spain. Therefore, this country that is lagging behind may have a vulnerability in the spread, in the very intense risk premium. Then there are the other mechanisms - the MEDE, the EIB, the SURE - in what Europe also reminds us that we must not play the Fábula of cigarettes and ants, it is not a question of now trying to square the support and the hammering accounts, but to do with these aids what other countries are proposing: structural reforms to believe and create jobs in the medium term. We, I told you before, proposed three measures which in the European Union are very positive. The first, an independent authority, such as Greece, which has a Nobel prize in the lead; like France, which has a leader of the opposition in the lead; like Italy, which had a prestigious businessman in the lead. You turned him down. Secondly, a national reform plan that could receive the support of this House, however, you are undoing reforms such as education and work, which had worked; and, thirdly, the implementation of the specific recommendations, which you know speak of the disparity in the education system between self-governments - what harm will the Celaá law bring to you -; it also speaks of freight transport, the reduction of public debt, school failure, the energy transition, etc. In short, of issues that we and our autonomy could support, as long as we did it in the right line. If you are on a ship that is shipwrecking, it is logical that if you ask the administrations to help manage it together, you come to the ship that you ask for; not that you ask us to go to your own and that we can all sink. There is also the question of competitiveness plans, of which Mrs Montero has not mentioned anything. We proposed already in March a plan of economic shock with less taxes, suppressing assets, inheritances, donations, lowering that of companies, making a plan of tax shock to attract international investment, posing a modality of subsidized contracting for those affected by the COVID and a lack of payment of ICOs and an expansion of liquidity of these. Secondly, we proposed more labour flexibility while maintaining the reforms, yes, and the zero quota and zero income of the self-employed as well, but also a second chance for those who fail by intensifying that law, and also by expanding the ERTE beyond what is set and by putting forward business growth laws with more flexibility so that they can compete. We were also proposing less bureaucracy, not only by reducing the government - a government that now has almost twice as many portfolios as the People's Party government had just two years ago - but also by a law of market unity, which the Bank of Spain and the European Commission ask for, the possibility that entrepreneurs can have their company set up in just five days and the repeal of rules for each one that is approved, i.e. legal certainty. More training in the dual FP, but also in bilingualism or trilingualism in the autonomous communities with co-official language. We also planned for more digitisation and mathematics, we proposed public assessment and knowledge, freedom of choice, that is, what is required in Europe. Finally, greater competitiveness in reindustrialization, digitisation, sustainability, internationalisation and legal certainty, which, as you know, is also listed on the stock exchange. This in economic terms, but we proposed - the Minister of Health is not here - a Cajal plan in health, of which I have only heard this morning that they are going to accept the national agency, although they call it institute, but nothing say about the legal framework alternative to the alarm, nothing say about the medicalization of the residences of older people or their care, nothing say about a plan of research and industry and of stock of medical material, nothing say about the measures in favor of health care, such as the national pool, primary care or the bet for safe runners in hospitals. It also proposed a programme of democratic strengthening - and I note that it is regrettable that we have to say this in the middle of the 21st century in Western Europe - in education, as I have already told you, guaranteeing freedom of choice, the language of all Spaniards and the defence of special education, which is not much to ask, Minister. [[Applauds]] With regard to national unity, we only asked him to comply with what he said a year ago in an election campaign, that is, the prohibition of pardons for sedition and rebellion, the end of indoctrination in school and propaganda in the public media and the criminalization of an illegal referendum, as you promised in the electoral debate. In the area of security, we call for no further prison benefits to be given to ETA terrorists, for a plan to be made against the illegal occupation of housing and for the illegal immigration suffered by some autonomous communities in recent weeks, such as those in the Canary Islands, Andalusia and others. In the area of justice, it is not much to ask to say that they meet the requirements of the European Union for depoliticising the election of the governing body of judges and that there is no role in those parties that are attacking the institutions, including the judiciary itself in its resolutions. The last point is personal freedoms, personal freedoms in the freedom to criticize in the networks, or in the freedom of the media to say what is wrong with the government, or in the freedom that parliamentarians have to control the government in the courts, that is, in this Parliament. Now that the 70th anniversary of the Schuman Declaration is commemorated, remember what one of the founders of the European Union said, that freedom only scares when the habit of using it is lost. I don't know if that's what you're proposing. I'm done, Madam President. The Government has not been able to overcome this crisis, but the Spanish will be able to do so despite this Government. We have to get ahead of our country without demagogic solutions, which we then end up paying very dearly, but with responsibility and opportunities. We don't want gifts with our money, what we want is effective and honest management, but that management is the only one with which we can get jobs back. We don't want fear, we want confidence. We don't want dependence, we want freedom. We don't want a shield to hide behind us, but a sure path on which we can all move together. There is light at the end of the tunnel, of course, and that is why we have to give hope to millions of young people and families who no longer remember the good times of Spain and also give tranquillity to the generation of our parents and grandparents, who have left their skin for us, but without mortgageing the future of our children and grandchildren, as one of the vice presidents is already acknowledging that it will happen. It is true that the destiny of the nation is in the hands of every Spanishman, but the course he takes is in the hands of the Members who are gathered here. I have offered you, Mr Sánchez, mine, and today you have rejected it again and decided again that your road map is to agree with those who want to destroy the nation you are supposed to represent. There is a clear conflict between its interest and Spain's interest. He had to choose today also if he wanted to give up the centre or the extremes, if he complied with Europe or its partners, and today he has again chosen. Either there is a future for Spain or there is a future for your Government, and you will see it in the vote on these budgets. It cannot meet the economic agenda that Europe demands in exchange for the rescue...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u14	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u15	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u17	... and yet have a political agenda against Spain, which is the one asked by its partners for their investiture and now for their budgets. The European Union is not a neutral space, but it is belligerent with the communists, populists and nationalists with whom you are ruling. We, however, are going to represent the third Spain, the moderate, sensible and centrist Spain, the Spain of freedom without anger, of the white hands, of the balconies with flags, that Spain that applauded the health heroes but that in each slap demanded responsibility and effectiveness to its government. They did not succeed, but I am convinced that very soon, with us and without this kind of budgetary policy or attack on health, employment and freedoms, they will succeed. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing by]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u18	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Welcome and good afternoon to all Members. Mr Casado, I am not convinced that you know what we have come to this debate for. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Here we are dealing with a debate of numbers, public accounts, politics, accents that we put on the different games to try to take on the big challenges and the big challenges, and I have to tell you that I have seen you a little out of place. I've seen him move, first, addressing Mr. Sánchez, who doesn't intervene in this rostrum. [[Protests]] As always, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when you don't like an expression, I don't know why you're committing that childishness of yelling at the person you're talking about. [[Applauds]] I don't like many of those you say, and I try to be able to digest them privately. Mr Casado, I really believe that today you have come to another speech, you have come to another debate. You haven't talked about what we have in our hands. It seems that you do not care about the draft budgets, nor have you raised any questions about these public accounts that justify the refusal of the People's Party to sit down and talk about budgets. You have talked about other things; you have talked about the Education Act, you have talked about who will or will not support this draft budget, but you have not talked about the problems of the citizens, the policies contained here to try to give them answers, the capacity as a country we have to get out of this crisis situation. You see, I think you have changed the tone of what you came to teach us just two weeks ago, when you came up to this rostrum to defend the position of the People's Party against VOX's motion of censure; a speech that you intended to be moderate and from which you tried to move the whole citizenry - I think with little effect - that you were making a turn to the centre-right. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u21	And again today, Mr Casado, with this popurist speech in which you have gone back to when we were in another government presided over by Mr Sánchez, but not precisely in this legislature, you have been going through a number of months, from my point of view, without any kind of argumental thread. On the other occasion you received congratulations and thanks for a moderate speech that approached you to look like a government party, a state party, but I have to tell you that, after listening to it today, the speech was so effective, Your Honor, as a lack of sincerity. [[Applauds]] None of that you wanted, because, you see, Mr. Married, do you know what's going on? That the condition of moderate is not obtained with speeches or trying to occupy once in this rostrum another political space. For me to understand your lordship, this is like the driver's license; in order to obtain it, the theoretical and practical must be approved. If one approves of it is the theorist, but the practical nothing at all, in the end he runs out of driver's license. [[Applauds]] It's kind of what happens to Mr. Married. In fact, I believe that he did not move his commitment or his convictions for Spain; he did so simply - this is my opinion, I understand that everyone has his own - because the water of the extreme right and what you represent the offensive of the extreme right came to his neck. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you will be able to protest, but the policy that you are practicing of ultra-right following leads you to that situation. But I see that today Mr Casado has moved again from that position which he had held last day and now again conveys a feeling of: I am opposed to everything, I do not like anything that this government does, there is nothing that can be taken advantage of from the public accounts that are presented, not even of the 27 billion and, therefore, let us continue with Mr Montoro's extended budget, which seems to be a budget that serves everything, for the hard, for the mature, for when we have crisis, for when we do not have it. It must be that for Mr Married this budget covers all the keys that will enable us to face these great challenges. Let me say with all due respect, Mr Casado, that the opposition in this country needs a leader who is not permanently in primary schools. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u23	He needs a leader who is not permanently looking for his own political space. [[Rumors]] We need a leader of the main opposition party, the People's Party, who in the moments of drama of the people, in the moments of drama of this country, as in international times, is able to hold his shoulder. [[Laughter]] Your honors are laughing, but I don't see any grace in the pandemic we've been going through in the last few months. [[Applauds]] In short, after Mr Casado's speech, I believe that we have all been able to conclude that we cannot trust this certain hope which was opened when you intervened - I insist - in VOX's motion of censure two weeks ago, in which it seemed that you were going to bring back to the great national consensus: to the release of the General Council of the Judiciary, to the arrival of European funds, to these same budgets. [[rumors]] In short, a constructive proposal that allows us to move forward, not an immobile proposal that we only wish to return to the past, to the past of the People's Party Government, that nothing more that is mentioned to the citizens, Your Honor, is trembling; let you know. That is why I say that the speech does not serve if it does not correspond to facts and, therefore, it seems to me that it cannot be moderated to part-time or moderate depending on the days, like Mrs Ayuso when she makes the perimeter closures; depending on the days one is moderate or establishes a radical policy. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] I think you have not heard, that you have not read the draft budgets, Mr Casado, and I think you have not heard me throughout my first speech where I tried to unravel the items that make up these public accounts, even so that you would have the ability in this rostrum to say what issues are those that you believe need greater emphasis or priority and which issues do not. [[rumors]] But you have wrapped it all up in a general speech from which few things can be taken. What we have been able to extract is what you have been saying - I don't know if you're talking about the four Ds or what you call that issue - that starts with the word depression. Depression that of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen; depression that you have because you are unable to make any proposal to this House so that it can be admitted. [[applause]] [[Rumors]] But, I repeat, you're still wearing some mantras that I don't think are random. Mr Casado makes politics a sort of repetition of slogans; they repeat slogans, pass those slogans and whatever we talk about in this rostrum, it is about repeating the same ideas to see if by force of repeating them they end up being credible to all citizens. What I come to call the mantras, the mantras of the People's Party; mantras - I insist - that go through unemployment - I think I have noted it well - debt, depression and waste. [[rumors]] I think he used four Ds, I don't know if he used a fifth with depression. We are going to talk about these issues, Mr Casado, because they are the ones that set out, in a clearer way, the speech you have made from this rostrum. Mantra of unemployment. I believe that Mr Casado is repeating as a litany that the Socialist Party when it governs has the worst unemployment figures, a data not supported by the evidence, a data that has nothing to do with... Peace, ladies and gentlemen, if I'm going to explain it... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u24	Quiet, please. The Minister of Finance :... if I have listened to Mr. Married and have been silent in my seat, listen to what I have to tell you. [[Square Mount]] [[Rumors]] I insist, that statement has never been supported either by the evidence or by any of the data we have in our power. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, you are constantly transferring unemployment projection figures, even for this year 2020, nothing similar to what I hope we will finally be able to record. Do you remember what you were saying when the pandemic started? This year's unemployment rate was going to be over 25%. That's what you happily say when the pandemic starts and there are the data for the third quarter and waiting for the data for the fourth quarter. The worse, the better, isn't it, Mr. Married? You always try to hope for a black future because for you the worse, the better; I think it is really honest to say that it is the policy that the People's Party is practicing. But I will tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, do you know with the Presidency of which government the highest unemployment rate has been recorded in the entire historical record since it existed... [[Rumors.-A Mr. MP: Zapatero]] Wait, ladies, if I know you don't like to listen. Wait. [[Several Members: Zapatero.-Rumores]] No, they're confused.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u26	Do you know who holds the record, unfortunate record, in unemployment rate while he has been President of the Government, Mr. Married? [[Protests. - Rumors.]] Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] The highest unemployment rate occurred in Mr Rajoy's Government. And if you don't have the data by hand, I'll give it to you: 26.9%, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, let yourselves speak. We have all allowed Mr. Married to express himself, let him speak, even what you do not like or what you have just discovered is a lie. Because, indeed, it was Mr Rajoy who endured the highest number of unemployment during a government. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] But I tell you more: do you know under what presidency the best unemployment figure in our country was achieved in 2007? [[Several Members: Zapatero.-Laughter.-Rumors]] You're right, Mr. Zapatero. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mr Zapatero has the best unemployment rate. They've got it right. [[Rumors]] Check it out, if you don't believe this data, check it out. Mr Rajoy year 2013, Mr Zapatero year 2007. That's what the statistics are for... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u28	Everyone wants to argue with me, I see. That's what the statistics are for, so that we can look at them honestly and tell the people the truth. [[Rumors]] But not only that, Mr Casado, during the PP government, 50% of the workers were part-time, 60% of the unemployed lived in a situation of social exclusion, doubled the number of young people who had to emigrate each year, and the number of unemployed rose to 6,278,000. That is why, Your Honor, in the face of the mantras that you repeat - to see if by force of doing so it shuts down - the reality is that according to the last labour force survey 569 700 jobs have been created, recovering part of the land that we had lost in the second quarter. But I tell you more, Mr Casado, the increase in actual employment is even higher than this, because it hides the recovery of workers in ERTE. If we look at it in hours actually worked, employment dropped from 22.6 in the quarter, to 15.1 per cent in the third quarter. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is you who understand that there is a divorce between health and economy, it is you, it is Mrs Ayuso in particular, who permanently in her decisions opposes health measures to restrictive measures that could depress the economy. [[rumors]] It has been a speech that we have only heard from the People's Party, not the rest of the political groups, and the data do not lie, when health goes well the economy goes well and when the economy goes well the health of the citizens also goes up. Therefore, health and economy go hand in hand, not as you try to explain. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if we control the pandemic, Mr Casado, and we do so with strength and determination and we do not do so with so many doubts or uncertainties, we will be in a position during the year 2021 to be able to move towards a situation that allows us to improve our economic situation, as I have just said. Here are the data that shows it, but you prefer to wear the black glasses of the People's Party. I will tell you one thing, we - this government - are not going to get into the game of throwing the unemployed at our heads, this government, as long as there is only one person looking for employment and who does not find that opportunity, will continue to work tirelessly, with you, without you or with you as mid-pensioners, as you always are. [[Applauds]] What's in the employment budgets? Which is what you should be interested in, Mr. Married. What's in the employment budgets? I'll tell him again in case he's forgotten. [[Rumors]] Yes, I will repeat this: 7400 million for the promotion of employment and active employment policies. Did the People's Party ever write a similar amount? Never. 2770 million for vocational training for employment. Did you ever write it down? Never. 663 million for the Youth Employment Shock Plan. Have you ever written it down? Never. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential for us to create conditions in our country, to help economic recovery so that all people can find a job and, look!, a quality job, a job that does not make that despite having it people do not arrive at the end of the month and remain poor, but that allows them to develop their vital project and carry on their family project, because, Mr Casado, inequality for us is not an option. For his party it is probably because we came out of the previous financial crisis with an inequality like the one that our country had previously not experienced in democratic times. We do not believe that inequality is an option and, therefore, we are going to combat inequality, we are going to combat precariousness and we are going to make the economy grow, but we will do so in order for it to have a shared prosperity, so that it is a prosperity that is in the general interest of society, that it expands the middle class and does not impoverish it, which is what the People's Party has done during the economic crisis: it has forced several steps from the social scale to the middle class, and here are the facts, ladies and gentlemen, that show it. Let's get on with the mantras. Debt, second mantra I have taken note that you have commented. It speaks of debt Mr Married when the People's Party increased public debt by twenty-nine percentage points, 402 billion euros more debt in the management of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] 402 billion more debt, Mr Casado!, and this does not seem to you to be a situation of leaving the next generations in debt, a situation of collapse, no. You left Social Security with a deficit that multiplied by eighteen: from the EUR 1 billion with which you inherited Social Security to EUR 19 billion in the pension system to make it unsustainable and to transfer insecurity to our elderly. You have emptied the pension box, which you have in your possession: 74,437 million euros. On the other hand, Your Honor, what has this government done? This government, in 2019, accelerated the downward path of debt amortization - it left it at 95.5% -, we managed to reduce the debt two points only in one year -2019- and, in line with all the processes of fiscal consolidation, we were amortizing, even in advance, part of that debt that you had left behind. If you don't believe me - I think you don't believe me -, listen. [[Mr García Eggea utters words that are not perceived]] If I know, Mr. García Aegean, you don't have to tell me, but I was talking to Mr. Casado, so, if you don't mind, don't ventriloquist him, because if you don't, we don't finish clearing up. [[Laughter and applause]] Year 2019, Mr Sánchez's government, the international rating agencies - Standard and Poor's, for example - improved the rating and credit outlook of the Kingdom of Spain. I don't know if you don't care or care. It is that today Goldman Sach - I imagine you will have read the teletype - has anticipated that Spain will lead economic growth in the European Union next year. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] If you want to laugh, laugh at Goldman Sach who have made this appreciation, because for you you don't even deserve respect great international evaluation agencies. I tell you that the Spanish Government has reduced this debt by 2% of GDP, it has been financed at a negative rate within fifteen years and less, and it has also extended the average life of the outstanding debt, which is allowing it to manage this time of economic crisis and pandemic in a more appropriate way. However, Mr Casado, this good evolution of debt was actually truncated due to the outbreak of the crisis in COVID-19. Is this an exclusively national issue, ladies and gentlemen? No, it is an international issue, and hence the stimulus policies that Europe, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund are marking, are aimed precisely at enabling countries at the moment to spend and not to be held back by those debt rates that arise as a result of the economic depression resulting from the pandemic. Since this is the case, how is the risk premium, which is the comparative indicator that we have with the debt of other countries? Do you remember the risk premium, Mr. Married? Now you don't ask about the risk premium. It must be that the risk premium is stabilized. Indeed, it is. The risk premium in October stood at 79 points, at levels similar to those before the previous financial crisis - we can go back to December 2008 or the same December 2019-. Therefore, the situation and perspective of our debt are frankly different from what you have just said in this rostrum. What is your alternative, Mr. Casado, to this pandemic and this crisis that has affected us to live? Do you not think that the economy should be defended and encouraged? Do you not think that at this time we have to spend to put in place incentives that will allow a short-term situation to be recovered as soon as possible as a result of the health pandemic? You're talking about squandering. These expenses you squander. I believe that no worker, no company will be able to share Mr Casado's opinion because there are the facts that show it. Deficit. Do you know how many years the Rajoy government met the deficit target in the central administration? [[Rumors]] You don't know, do you? None. He didn't do it for a year. [[Applauds]] You, who call yourselves good managers - never, ladies and gentlemen - systematically failed to meet the deficit target to accumulate 32 billion; not one or two billion, 32 billion lags from the initial targets. On the other hand, with President Sánchez Spain, it came out of the excessive deficit procedure, and I think it is positive and we should all be glad that this situation was achieved. That is why we also do not want deficit classes from the People's Party because you always suspend. We will therefore continue with our fiscal responsibility, despite the suspension of fiscal rules, with our commitment to Brussels and our European partners. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the budget forecast is that the deficit should be reduced by 3.6 percentage points by 2021. According to what you have said here, it is difficult for you to understand, but we are in an exceptional situation, Mr Casado. I didn't hear you talk about an exceptional situation that requires exceptional behavior. The pandemic, however much Mr Casado says, is not combated by cutting public spending, but by placing strategic items in those places that can boost growth and protect the person. It's time for the stimuli, it's not time for the cuts. What happens is that your economic policy, Mr Casado, has only one direction: you only know how to cut. You don't know how to stimulate, you don't know how to maintain, you don't know how to stabilize. You apply the same recipe for all evils and, in this case, what have you said crisis? It cuts and therefore defends in this rostrum a policy of cutting. And you only defend that in Europe: the cut-off policy. I do not know what source he has been drinking from because governments, even of their political colour, are making countercyclical, expansive spending policies, and the whole of the European Union is developing an anticyclical policy. What do you mean by wasteful, Mr Casado, that expenditure should be cut back on expenditure for the self-employed, entrepreneurs, young people, research, health and education? It seems to you that it is a luxury for the country to have public services that allow us to consider it. But since I know I don't have credibility for you, I'm gonna give you a date. The chief economist of the OECD, for example, says: It is important that governments do not make the mistake of tightening fiscal policy too soon, as happened after the last financial crises. Nothing suspected of being phylocommunist, phyloterrorist, social-bolivian or any of those adjectives these people put on. The director of the IMF's European department - to see if you're interested in it - says in a nutshell: governments can't afford not to spend. These measures - the IMF says - must remain. The president of the Eurogroup proposes unprecedented measures for unprecedented challenges, and says: there will be no concrete end without the development of these measures. The President of the European Central Bank, Mrs Lagarde, will at least deserve her credibility. It is essential, says Mrs Lagarde, that the budgetary security networks set up by the governments during the crisis should not be withdrawn prematurely. All these are not bodies suspected of being allied with great defenders of other positions that have not been supported in Europe in recent years. Do you share these claims? Do you believe, Mr. Married, that we must make an expansive policy at this point in the economic cycle? Do you think an anticyclical policy should be pursued? Do you think that the budget should be increased and, therefore, surrounded by the instruments that allow it to be done with European funds, with fiscal adjustments or with the impetus to economic growth? I hope so, because it is not the time to withdraw the expansive fiscal policies, that time will come. In fact, these previous days you have criticized us because the government has not submitted a rebalancing plan after suspending the tax rules. When I listened to him, I imagined the face that Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Mañueco or Mr. Moreno Bonilla were going to put on when this minister asked them for a rebalancing plan in the middle of the pandemic so that they would be able to control the fiscal deficit that we have to combat from previous years. Do you really believe that the autonomous communities have to be drawing up a rebalancing plan? Or do they have to attend to health needs, accompany the school so that it can remain a safe place, accompany people so that no one stays on the road and stimulates their productive tissue? I understand that yes, and we seem to agree more with them than with you, so what you just said in this room. I simply tell you to look at the centre-right leaders of Europe; only that, Mr. Married, because we can't believe that everyone is taking the changed step except one, which seems to be what you do. No, centre-right leaders in Central Europe are pursuing a policy similar to that proposed by this Executive. Mr Macron, Mrs Merkel, everyone is practicing an anticyclical policy. I will not explain to you the development of each of these policies, because I have done so at the beginning of my speech and you are clear. However, I did not want to miss this opportunity without telling you, Mr Casado, that in good management, none. Neither for the rescue of the highways, nor for the tax amnesty, nor because they facilitated the dismissal, nor because they cut social rights. In addition, they loaded the Dependency Act, forced a co-op of drugs, weakened our public services... Do I still follow, Mr. Casado? Do I keep detailing how you took what you called needs in the previous crisis? That is why I am going to say this very clearly to you and to the rest of your ladies and gentlemen: this executive is not going to apply the economic prescriptions of the People's Party. He's not going to apply them. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, they did not serve in the past and much less serve in the face of the crisis secondary to this pandemic. Therefore, I would like to say that, whenever you come to move us further cuts or suffering towards the citizens, the answer of this Executive will be the one I am giving you in this rostrum. Mr. Married, you're also talking about the deviation from the income forecast. I think you forget that in all the budgets you submitted during Mr Rajoy's government there was a significant deviation from the income forecast, the more so in a scenario of economic uncertainty and a scenario of pandemic. You probably wouldn't have even submitted a draft budget. Do you remember what the average deviation over the forecast of revenue had Mr Rajoy's budgets over the last few years? I am going to tell you, Mr Casado, that you are so fine by adjusting the revenue forecast: EUR 5400 million on average deviation from the initial forecast. [[Rumors]] Do you know where the record is? Year 2013. Do you know what the deviation was from what they presented in the draft budgets? It was EUR 9 billion of revenue, which you set in the draft budgets and which were then not met. That is why I say to you that we always have to have a tem to hit the last euro and anticipate it in the income scenario, but obviously, Your Honor, in this situation we have set up alternative scenarios. We cannot fix forks as fixed by all the international bodies, but, for example, I would like to say that the forecast of this Government is endorsed by the AIReF. It's just that you said no, I think you said it's not endorsed by anyone. The forecast of the macroeconomic picture of this government is endorsed by the AIReF. The AIReF presented a fork and in the optimistic band of the AIReF fork... [[Rumors]] Well, look, it's that bands are bands, there's a pessimistic data and an optimistic data, but it's inside the band. Or are they also going to argue that they're inside the band? Therefore, it is within the forecast of the AIReF itself, so we should not be as confused as you try to pose. And I tell you more, even those economic forecasts that have made international analysts have not taken into account two elements that, in my view, have been essential in order to bring reality closer together. Firstly, there is the arrival of European funds. Economic analysts' forecasts do not incorporate the annuality of European funds with the stimulus that this implies in economic terms. And secondly, no one refers to the growth that was experienced in the third quarter. A growth I haven't heard you say anything about, Mr. Married. 16.7% growth for you has passed unnoticed, you with black glasses have passed under the radar. Therefore, it only refers to the data you select as negative data. We therefore believe that our growth forecast will be in line with what we have proposed. I have no doubt that with these data and with these stimuli that the economy presents when health is controlled we will continue in the same direction. Mr. Married, I really believe that you think or have thought that the position of the People's Party that you maintain will somehow give you political gain or will lead you to Moncloa, but I think it is an analysis - let me tell you, I know that my opinion does not interest you, but I see myself in the obligation to move it - wrong. Mr. Married, by the hand of a pandemic, by the hand of an economic crisis, by the hand of this situation no ruler can aspire to reach the Moncloa, but, well, you yourselves. Then you've been talking all these days - today I think you've used a softer tone - about the tax hack. Do you know what happens to your hyperbole? That by repeating it, whatever happens, it loses strength. Mr. Married, if you call it small and big the same way, the adjective is not qualitative, it is that you lose strength. So, to you, it seems like a tax hack that is increased in the IRPF 2 points to people who charge over the amount of 300 000 euros, which is 0.07% of taxpayers. For you it is a fiscal hack, when we are talking about a number of 36,000 people, which is in particular where it arises. It seems to you a fiscal hack that the property tax is increased to those who have a wealth of more than 10 million euros. But how many people in this country do you believe, Mr Casado, that they have a wealth of more than EUR 10 million? You call the exemption from capital gains and dividends in corporation tax, which affects 0.1 % of corporations, tax haven. Who are you protecting, Mr. Married? Does it protect 0.1 % of companies, 0.07 % of taxpayers? Are those the people you protect? [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the insurance premium has not been paid for twenty-two years, ladies and gentlemen, we had hardly even been born. And do you think it's a tax scam to touch a tax after twenty-two years? I have already said this before, this tax places Spain at 8% compared to the 19% Germany has. I've heard you speak well of Germany. If this is a fiscal hell, then for you countries like these must really be an impossible storm. You are talking about diesel, and you have spoken again about other tax figures in the draft budgets. You laugh and I don't understand the laughter, I really tell you, I don't understand. It seems to me that taxation is something very serious. I know you're handling it and it angers me, and I have to tell you, because I think we need to do fiscal pedagogy. It cannot be considered permanently that public services do not feed on taxation because, moreover, taxation is good, what has to be fair and progressive, as well as serving general interests, but it is good. [[Applauds]] Imagine that we would have taken this pandemic with its maximum: that the money is in the taxpayer's pocket. If we had taken the pandemic with that maximum, now the public services could not have been revitalized, staff could not have been hired, the number of ICU hospital beds could not have been increased, etc. It would be better for every citizen to have sought life, depending on the maximum you practice. I'm not sharing it. [[Applauds]] I have told you that the environmental taxes that this government pursues are solely intended to be able to drive greener policies and deter aggressive behaviour towards the environment. I think it's simple. Taxation is a tool, Your Honor, as there are many others. It is a tool that stimulates or disincentives. What do we want, to walk towards the ecological transition? We have to use taxation as a stimulus. What do we want, to discourage our children from having obesity that predisposes them to diabetes? We have to use taxation to deter that consumption behaviour. It's relatively simple, that's what all the countries of the world do. I would remind you again that Spain is the fifth country in the European Union as a percentage of environmental taxation. And it is not the fruit of this government, which is trying to correct it, but you did nothing, ladies and gentlemen, in environmental policy all the time you were ruling. Spain is the third country in the eurozone in the price of diesel, and they say it is a fiscal hack. We are only ahead of Lithuania and Luxembourg. I'll tell you the same thing about sugary drinks. So I could go on with all the tax figures. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if this is an assault on the middle and working class, what do you call it, then, the tax hike that took place when Mr Rajoy arrived in Moncloa? What do you call that? [[Applauds]] You're talking to your partner and you're not listening to me, but I'm going to repeat the question again, Mr. Married. If for you this what we do in these budgets is a fiscal hack, it's a sort of hell, what do you call the policy that my predecessor practiced when Mr. Rajoy arrived in Moncloa? Is that a policy of salvation? For you, that's a policy of salvation, but when this government makes much less adjustments, it's a tax haven. You did perpetrate a fiscal hack the first year in which you made your first budget: you raised taxes up to fifty times to the middle class, to the working class, while you decreed a fiscal amnesty that was declared unconstitutional and that was motivated by purposes, some of them, unrecognizable. [[Applauds]] The budget represents an average indirect income for each citizen of EUR 5321. It is therefore a redistributive budget, Your Honor. This is a figure that we raise to EUR 6456, if we include the rest of the items, including the European funds. Without European funds, this budget brings indirect income to all citizens of EUR 5321. It's a situation I don't know if you don't understand it, but you certainly don't share it. The only objective, Mr. Married, after all that data I have just provided you, would seem to be to interfere with the work of the Government. I do not see that the People's Party is in any way facilitating the exit from this crisis. We have very close coordination with all the Autonomous Communities, and the requests made by the Autonomous Communities to this Government are very similar, regardless of their political colour: more resources for health, for education, for dependence; more capacity for co-governance according to certain policies. That is what I hear say to the autonomous presidents of those communities governed by the People's Party, something quite similar to what I hear from the presidents governed by the Socialist Party. But I never hear you say that kind of statement, probably, is the non-alternative, the non-proposal or simply the hindrance of this Government's task. Mr. Married, I believe you imitate the far right. It bothers you that I tell you that, but it is that if you take the two speeches are absolutely superponible, except the one you did here. [[Mr García Eggea utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. García Aegean, I'm not talking to you. [[Rumors]] Except for the speech you made here in the motion of censure, the rest of the speeches are all superponible to the speeches of Mr Espinosa de los Monteros or those of Mr Abascal. You try to delegitimize, one day yes and another, the tax system, which provides resources to the welfare state, which is the guarantor of the effective equality of citizens in matters such as health, education, the care of our elderly or dependents. Therefore, I always invite you to make a useful policy, because I believe that you must have learned - I do not know if you have done so, ladies and gentlemen, who are sitting here, but surely those who are ruling in autonomous communities do - the need to strengthen and revitalize a welfare state that has been the sole guarantor of the security mattress of citizens, and therefore of public health, of public education and of dependence, of care for our elderly. That is why I think that each one of us has to think, when we press the button when we decide, whether budgets continue or not, whether we are really here to serve the citizenry from the management of the public, so important, if we put the general good before the particular interests or of their party. I believe, Mr Casado, that in addition to monitoring government action, which is mandatory for your political formation and which we obviously need to do, you confuse the control of the Executive with obstruction and also confrontation. I wouldn't even call it confrontation, I call his political practice frantism. Because in the confrontation, at some point, there is discussion about ideas, but you are not arguing about ideas, you say it is no, because it is no and because Mr Sánchez proposes it. That's it, there's nothing more to discuss. [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The cause of the current economic situation - this is an obvious one, but it must be repeated after that speech - has been a global pandemic; a crisis that is different from the financial one and that demands different responses as well, but not only because we are a progressive government but because they proved to be useless, and moreover, nothing has to do with one crisis with another. I believe that until they accept this, your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party will not be prepared to provide solutions in the battle against the virus. Mr Casado, if there are General State Budgets, Spain wins, and if there are no, Spain loses. It's that simple, you don't have to think about it much more. If there are new public accounts, we will be able to meet the country's challenges. Because this is not government, Mr. Married, this is country, Your Honor. This isn't government... [[Rumors]] Some protest from the bench and keep protesting. This is not government, this is country. This is not a compromise or a blank cheque to Mr. Sanchez. This is really that a political formation has the capacity to say: I bring my capacity, my talent and my constructive task so that this country can emerge from the most dramatic situation that has lived in recent years, and not be looking for electoral revenue or for confrontation or frantism to bring down a government at a time of a pandemic like the one we have had. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what you do - with all humility - is not political. This is not political, Mr. Married, it is anti-political. Therefore, you need to make obsessive use of those hyperboles, those exaggerations, or directly to lies that you do not believe. That's why they don't move, because they're not credible, Mr. Married. Anti-politics is not moderation; it is anti-politics, it is a way to confront, even, the system of which we have been endowed. They delegitimize everything the Government does: actions, the tax system, constitutional institutions, public activity. They delegitimize everything, in a sort of fact that seeks the paralysis of the country at a time like this. But they are not confused, they are not directed against this Government, they are directed against all citizens. And that's what you have to make yourself look at, Mr. Married. You may not share certain issues, but that is what the period of amendments is for, so that you can amend them. But no, you decided, even before you knew this draft budget, to say that no and therefore not to exercise your task of opposition, not to accept that democratic work that you have assigned. If you want to have your own style, if you want to have your own profile and want to separate from VOX, don't say the things that VOX says, don't do the things that VOX does and think differently than VOX thinks, because that's probably how you'll have your own profile. This is the last thing I tell you, Mr. Married. I think you have to stop doing that policy that you practice because it will allow you to gain credibility and very possibly also in the future - four years ahead of you - to contribute to this country. Are you going to follow that no-no policy? During this period if you change your attitude, the citizens will probably recognize it, but the citizens will never be able to forgive that a ruling party that sits in this House at the time that was most needed in this country, when we all have to hold our shoulders and do so with everyone's help, you not only profiled, but turned against it. Therefore, we need the budgets, we want these budgets to be able to open up the way. We hope that you will reflect, Mr Casado, on putting the country's interests ahead of your party's own interests. Allow your Members at least to accept that this budget is on its way, that it can be amended throughout the amendment process, because that will allow us to get out before the crisis without anyone being left behind and, above all, from unity. Without unity we will not be able to get out of this situation, and you for now, Your Honor, are neither expected nor expected. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in common, and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u29	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For a replica shift... [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Mr Casado Blanco has the floor for a replica shift. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u30	Thank you, Madam President. What a spectacle, Minister, for real! If I were an entrepreneur who is deciding to invest in a euro area country and see the Minister of Finance's speech in those terms, I would honestly be very concerned. But, above all, if I were one of the four million Spanish unemployed and saw the Minister of Finance in that tone I would be outraged. [[Applauds]] It has been outrageous because it happens to you like Mr. Illa, they have written an addendum to your notes and come here to talk about hyperboles. Have you heard my speech? Because look what I've consciously done what I've wanted to do. See the video. [[Rumors]] I mean, it was a respectful speech, in a completely institutional tone, analyzing where we were, saying that you had referred to what you did because you had done it this morning, seeing why you couldn't approve the budget and reaching out again in the future. See you, because maybe those 777 advisors will pass you the wrong notes. [[Applauds]] But, hey, we accept the challenge, Minister. Man!, that in the matter of employment, deficit and debt the Socialist Party is holding us back is one of the most fascinating issues that can happen to me in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] First of all, depression, Minister of Finance, is the macroeconomic term that means the situation in a country with high levels of falling production and consumption, coinciding with a lot of unemployment and a lot of corporate bankruptcy. I'll give it to you, okay? [[Applauds]] The depression that Spain suffers is not a divan depression, it is the economic depression that the Socialist Party has brought in twenty-five years three times. And since we're on the American subject, I'm going to give you a phrase from a former American president who said, "Recession is when my neighbor loses his job, depression is when I lose it, and recovery is when Mr. Sánchez and you lose it." That's what happens. [[Applauds]] Mrs Montero, I wasn't in the government in the years you talked about, but you did. You were the Finance Advisor of the Board of Andalusia, and you not only supported the biggest fraud in the history of Spanish democracy with the EREs being you counsel, but you yourself have corrected yourself as minister regarding the deficit deviations that you as advisor approved, nor one accepted. [[Applauds]] And I'll tell you one thing. Out of respect for the unemployed, out of respect for the dead and out of respect for the infected, that's how I started my speech and that's why I used that tone, because there's not Spain for this Tangana with 411 dead yesterday. I am ashamed of its mitinary tone, its discriminating tone, without mentioning even the real social, economic, employment, health and death drama that Spain is experiencing. [[Applauds]] But what do you think, Minister? He comes up here to give arrogant lessons and say that we do what you want when we have been raising a hand on the issues that we do know how to do for two years. He says that the People's Party government had to come out of debt. Man, the one they left in the drawers were 100 billion euros in debt, 16 billion in bankruptcy of payment to health providers, 27 000 in electric fare, almost 40 000 that we had to give to the autonomous communities in the FLA, the Supplier Plan. [[Applauds]] Man, of course, that came out, but not as much as what Mr Zapatero came out with the inertia he brought from the other government. What do you think made Plan E or what do you think eased the 30-point situation of Mr. Zapatero's public debt? Not at all, to leave us 9 deficit points, of which 2 hidden up to 11%. Do you know what it is to reach a government and find 11 deficit points where the government that replaces it has hidden 2 points, as you did, by the way, to the European Commission a few months ago? It had a budgetary target of 1.3% in the deficit, negotiated 1.8%, presented 2.62 % and grew to 2.84 %, and that increased to 2.1%, when EUR 20 billion was merged into the electoral decrees to go doped to the elections to which I referred. [[Applauds]] That's preCOVID, Mrs. Montero. That's preCOVID. [[Applauds]] Why does COVID now affect countries like Spain more? Because they haven't done their homework, because they've melted the full pantry we left them. How can you talk about employment, Mrs Montero, when your government, the Zapatero government, destroyed 3.5 million jobs? [[Applauds]] Who has recognized him even Solbes in his book and Octavio Granados, secretary of state, has said: How bad we did it! But how do you tell me about deficits, employment, debt and macroeconomic imbalances, Mrs Montero? Honestly, I'm ashamed of myself. We had to come here and in just seven years we recovered 2.5 million jobs. Of course we failed to meet the deficits that you left us!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u31	Mr. Married, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u32	Yes, Madam President. Thank you very much. Of course the public debt that you left us came out of! And of course, we will do it again because the budgets that you bring to this House today are a suicide for the recovery of Spain. It is not that we do not agree on social policy, if we increase social policy by EUR 26 billion. What are you telling me about the European funds, if it was negotiated by our PP partners when their boss was listening passively at the marathon summit in which he did not open his mouth because we had to wait for Merkel and Von der Leyen to take the ballot! [[Applauds]] We still offer you to go to Europe with parliamentary support and you reject it and come here to insult us. Look, Mrs. Montero, you've already left the legacy at the Andalusian Junta that we all know and are recovering it after a lot of effort. You are now going to leave the legacy as PSOE's Finance Minister again, as Mr Solbes and Mrs Salgado left, but I assure you that we will not tolerate contempt and humiliation for the victims, the unemployed, the self-employed and the broken businesses that you have distilled in this rostrum. Ask them for forgiveness and bring some accounts to recover your future and not to deepen the depression that you always leave behind. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u33	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u34	Mr. Married, I have so much respect for this House, it seems to me that we have so much responsibility for the people we have come to this rostrum... [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado: Yes, sure!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u35	Mr. Echaniz, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u36	Do you see how there are people who don't know how to live up to this debate, who don't know what to play? [[Applauds]] You have addressed in your words issues on which I will not deepen because I believe they do not matter to anyone. You use a certain intellectual superiority with your words. You mean the titles, Mr. Married? Oh, yeah? What do you mean? Are you questioning the capacity of this executive - ah, mine!- [[Rumors]] [[rumors]] In front of Mr. Married's? Do we remind ourselves of the qualifications we each have and how we have obtained them? [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, you're talking to me, you've told me. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u37	Quiet, please. Mr. Píriz, Mr. Suárez, Mr. Garcés, I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u38	Look, look! Is this education?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u39	Mrs Beltrán Villalba, I also ask you to remain silent. [[Protests continue.- Mr. Píriz Maya utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Píriz Maya, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u40	I insist, you or some of your colleagues pretend in this rostrum to rise in intellectual superiority. We're not talking about Mr. Sanchez, he's talking to me, towards me. Whenever you want to see him. I do not think there is any problem in checking what the qualifications have been, how many years we have taken them out, how and how we have obtained them, Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] Secondly - I will only make a brief reference, because the debate that brings us is much more important - do you really dare to come up to this rostrum and say that a political formation has been doped up to the elections, after that which you have at the top? [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u42	I have the floor. At least they respect the democratic rules of this House. I was telling you that you are free to exercise opposition as you wish, as you please, but, of course, what is clear is that you do not know where you are going. You try to practice a moderate tone with a strong speech, a strong speech with a moderate tone. You are not clear on what political space the main opposition party has to occupy, an extremely serious issue for this country's policy. He doesn't know where they have to move. And it seems that when you make incendiary speeches your bench applauds you more than when you don't. I'm sure that makes you think later. So, here we are, in that strategy: what is it, what do I oppose? In the end, that's what they're asking you. You intend to give me lessons from what an economic depression is. You're not even able to take the irony, but that's your problem. [[Protests]] Of course, they can keep up whatever they want, they won't find me. They can follow what they want, as well as the trajectory that they have had members of this Government in previous governments. We, at least, have assumed management responsibilities. You are not known about any management either in private or in the public, that is, you have dedicated yourself to another task in your professional activity. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, the other day I got a reference that I thought was extraordinarily... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u44	You evoked in your speech the embrace of Alberti and the Passionary, to Suárez in aid of Gutiérrez Mellado, you spoke of reconciliation, of concord, of paternal, fraternal embrace... You were saying that the People's Party missed the atmosphere of dialogue, rapprochement and agreement that we had had during that time. Listening to him, I wondered what he meant: of course not that the political groups that we are in the antipodes of thought can sit down and discuss it, because you criticise it. You criticize when this government sits with the one you don't think like him, you criticise when you come to agreements with other forces in which we each have to give up part of our initial positions. You criticize him, and call that vendettas, phylocommunist, bolivian, phyloterrorist, all those goals that you set President Sanchez. How do you think there was an understanding in the first constitutional agreement, Your Honor? How do you think it happened if you don't sit down, talk, agree with the one you're different from, not with those who think like us, but with those who are really different? I can see that the members of your formation don't have to like that hug very much. You brought it in, and I thought it was nice to evoke it. But you have to move from that evocation of the agreement that existed in your day, in the constitutional pact, to having a vocation of agreement, to sitting with this government to amending those parts that you do not like. If today - and I say this to you with regret - we have to have a debate like that of constitutional reform, I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, would not favour the constitutional pact. At that clear moment that we had to sit with a recently legalized Communist Party... [[rumors]] Of course, people who were heirs of Francoism had to sit and sit to try to reach a constitutional agreement. However, you criticise again and again this government that it feels with those who are different to try to give an answer in Catalonia, Galicia, the Basque Country, Andalusia or Extremadura. [[Applauds]] There would have been no legalization of the Communist Party or a constitutional pact if the current leader of the People's Party were to rule. I have appealed to you, Your Honor, in many ways. Don't listen to me, listen to Europe. He has also expressed his interest in Europe today; he listens to Europe. These budgets are a transposition of the historic agreement that Europe has reached between different ideological families, some of them starring, no matter how much you give courage, by President Sánchez. [[Laughter]] Yes, yes, you laugh; of course, I do not know what you paint in Europe, because nothing else you will criticize Spain. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr De Olano Vela utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u45	Mr. De Olano, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u46	We are talking about a budget that is the fruit of a historic agreement between different political families within the framework of the European Union, all committed to working together to what they understood to be the most unusual challenge our generation has had. And your amendment to the whole, Mr Casado, is an amendment to the European consensus. [[A honourable Member: What a barbarous man!]] What a barbarian!, says one. Of course, that's what I say: What a barbarian! It must be that you do not like those consensuses, that you did not like the agreement that has been reached in Europe. That is why you went to Europe, to conspire against that agreement, and to conspire against that agreement means, Mr Casado, to conspire against this country. That's what you did in Europe. [[Applauds]] Using thick words - no matter what tone it adopts in words, there are days when it can be higher or lower -, when you are offered agreement, you return chryspation, always. You've never been loyal to Mr. Sanchez's open hand, ever. [[Rumors]] You have never accepted the challenges that President Sánchez has offered the People's Group to try to abound in the country's challenges. You have wanted to politicize the health pandemic. We have not seen it in any country in Europe. [[A Member: What a barbarity!]] Of course, what a barbarity! I know it's a barbarity. The behaviour of the main opposition party has not been reflected in any party in Europe, whether it was ruling or in the opposition. That is why, Your Honor, this disloyal conduct that I believe you have been involved in all this time in the pandemic has forced the Spanish people to fight with two types of viruses: one is the one we already know enough, the COVID, but the second is the virus of political crispation that you permanently inoculate in this House and outside this House. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Do you really think you have no responsibility to play during this pandemic? Of course they do. And of course they have a role that the Spaniards have given them, no more or less than being the main opposition party. That's why you have to take advantage of it, it has to be useful. You must take advantage of the position that the Spanish have given you, with the number of Members you have. If you compete with the far right, if you feed with the far right, you will never be able to match the far right. In that land of them you never win. You can't win: forget it. Go to a more moderate space, the one you recommend in that speech. Try to look at the political initiatives that come to this House from the perspective of contributing, not from the perspective of overthrowing the government, because, I insist, Mr Casado, four years. So, you go with the no to Spain, you go with the no to progress, you go with the no to recovery. In any case, I will continue to call for reflection on your group and on the rest of the groups, because the one living in our country is not just any moment, it is not another moment, it is an extraordinary moment that requires a situation, a unity of action and also that we can all bring the best of ourselves. It will force all countries to take steps to ensure that this is the case. That is why I think we have to open up the perspective, and, frankly, I think that with your amendment to the whole there is no moderation or institutionality or anything that seems like it, Mr Casado, because it is a wasted speech, it is a speech that does not serve, it is a speech that, by the strength of listening to it, does not matter what wildness it is, it ends up being a speech that does not shut down and that, above all, does not allow us to take advantage of it. I believe that this pandemic has highlighted the theses that you defend, that saves whoever you can, money is better in the citizens' pocket, education is only the responsibility of the parents, private health is better than public health. I believe that the crisis has shown that the State needs to help entrepreneurs, that without public health there is no defence against the virus, that it is a matter of justice to protect the most vulnerable people, that we are all interconnected and that it gives us the money we have in our current account because we are all vulnerable to such situations and that education really has to be the social lift that allows people with less income capacity to make progress. That is why I assure you that, from respect for criticism, from respect for recognition of the work of the opposition, but, above all, with the greatest commitment we can have to our country, we will continue to appeal to it for responsibility and we will continue to reach out to it, Mr Casado, because, frankly, I believe that in politics we must have a high eye and, therefore, we must be able to raise questions. I would believe you - I want to believe you - if you came to the rostrum and said: I do not share the budgets, they are not mine, I would do something else, but, since I do not have a majority to do so and my obligation is to contribute to the processing of good public accounts in this country, I will allow the budget to circulate and from there I will submit a series of amendments to enrich it. This would give credibility to the position of alleged moderation that you recently want to lead, Mr Casado. All that doesn't happen is try to keep playing the worst, the best, and let Spain fall, that we will already raise it. The reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that we are faced with the necessary budgets, with country budgets that contain plenty of reasons for being supported by the People's Parliamentary Group, by VOX and the rest of the groups in this House, from criticism, of course, but also from the commitment to Spain and the acceptance that the People's Party, the main opposition party, also has the responsibility to shoulder one of the most dramatic moments in our history. Think, you can't stay four years in this situation, it's a useless strategy. The only thing I can tell you is that we will continue to work and that, when you have it for good, here we will be, with the hand extended so that we can contribute to the recovery of this country among all of us from unity. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, this would be soon. Meanwhile you will find this Executive committed to Spain and working. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Members of the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and from the members of the Government, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u47	Thank you, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u48	Thank you. What a grumpy show we're getting used to one and the other game. [[Congressman: Come on, man!]] I hope that the VOX Parliamentary Group, of which yesterday was one year after its entry into this Chamber, will remain in this absolutely exemplary attitude and we will never fall into one or other type of behaviour as execretious as those we are seeing in this House on a daily basis. [[Applauds]] The truth is that I didn't think we would be here today talking about graduations, but it is true that this government has many peculiarities, among others that, instead of putting a philosopher at the head of the Ministry of Culture, an economist at the head of the Minister of Finance and a doctor at the head of Health, it has put the philosopher in Health, the lawyer in Culture and the doctor in Finance, and, of course, so goes we. Madam Minister, those of us who are first-time Economics are teaching us that the economy is the science that studies the allocation of scarce resources that are susceptible to alternative uses. Ethymologically, minister, the term economy comes from the conjunction of two Greek words oikos, patrimony, and nomos, which means law or norm, and therefore clearly the economy consists of the administration of the patrimony. And that's what we came here to today, not to yell at each other. Today we come to decide on the administration of a heritage, and it is a very important heritage, not only because it is limited, scarce and susceptible to alternative uses, but because it is the heritage of all Spaniards. And politicians who have never been net contributors to the state's arks, i.e. most of you, virtually all of the members of the government, are often forgotten a very important detail, and it is that you are not the owners of the estate, you are just the managers, just as a farm manager is not the owner of the building, it is just the manager. On the left, it should be remembered, in general, that the public, of what they speak so much in shouting, today too, is not their private side, that they cannot and should not patrimony - never better said - what so much effort has cost the Spaniards to contribute to the public coffers based on taxes. [[Applauds]] When the left speaks of defending the public in reality, what it means to say is that they allow it to be done with the common as if it were their own private side. But the curious thing is that not even left-wing politicians manage the common heritage as badly as they manage their private heritage; rather, they manage the common heritage much worse than the private heritage. What more would the Spaniards want than to sleep quietly thinking that that ease you have on the left in generating fantastic personal assets without ever having been exposed to risk, that skill worthy of study in some of the best business schools, would apply to the administration of your taxes. The Spaniards who are early to try to survive would be delighted that you would manage the taxes of everyone just as well as the property you administer, ladies and gentlemen, but, unfortunately, that is not the case, because you never apply the same economy for your personal property as for the public. All of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have been able to generate reasonable, sometimes even admirable, assets over time, and assuming that you started without any assets at the beginning of your careers, the truth is that you have been able to improve the net value of your assets over these years. You know that assets are assets less liabilities, net assets. Does that ring a bell? Don't you? Whatever. In any case, this means that you have been increasing your assets year by year, which have spent a little less than you have entered during these years, which you have been saving, in short. Congratulations, it's the right thing to do, that's exactly what the management of a heritage is, to be conservative, to try to spend less than what you enter, to prudently save a small amount each year and to keep it for the future in the face of possible problems. But it happens that you come here today with the heritage of the Spaniards exactly the opposite of what you do with your personal heritage. You come here today to squander the heritage of the Spaniards, because you don't manage the public as much as you do private. You bring here today a proposal of ruin and misery for the Spaniards, because you intend to evade them at taxes, because your income forecasts, Minister, are absolute fantasy, because in the midst of the greatest economic crisis in our lives you keep the largest and most expensive government in history. And you are right when you point to the contrary bench, because it is true that the People's Party when it governs, as it is today in the Madrid Community, also has the largest and most expensive government in history, going from nine to thirteen councillors, which is a 44% increase, by the way, the same increase that you have had here with reaching twenty-two ministers, so that you are not so different. The case is that again you intend to inflict on the Spaniards another punishment, with which you will have to pay the incompetence and incapacity of your rulers, as always, because you can lead us to bankruptcy on this path, Minister, and that is tremendously irresponsible. And before that, we will always show an infinite distance from the proposals of this Government. It is true that some of these trends are not exclusive to you, from the left. There has never been - you are right - a greater increase in taxes, greater deficits and never more increase in public debt than in Mr Rajoy's seven years. And you were asking the People's Party what they would call that. Well, look, that was insufferable, those fifty tax increases from the People's Party. But you have arrived and you have not touched any of those taxes; on the contrary, you have continued to raise them. [[Applauds]] And it is true that it is very difficult for the VOX Parliamentary Group to ever support the accounts of a socialist-communist government supported by separatists and phylo-terrorists because it is very difficult for us to support a government that attacks our constitutional order every day, it is very difficult for us to support a government that attacks the Crown, which is the symbol of national unity; it is very difficult for us to support a government that prevents the king from going to Barcelona but that makes him come to a sinister coven in Bolivia, to the greatest glory of a nightly and criminal ideology, a high fist, such as communism; a government that has put us in a state of alarm to hold all Spaniards hostage for six months with the connivance of all parties in this House less VOX; a government that has managed health in the worst possible way, with the worst ratios of the West, which has presided over the greatest economic crisis in the free world. It is very difficult, almost impossible, to find points of encounter with a Government that submitted to the Legislative during the confinement, which uses the Attorney-General's Office at his will, which aims to manipulate justice, which selects the judges of the Constitutional Court, which does not believe, in short, in the separation of powers. It is very difficult to support a government that claims that Spanish is no longer a vehicle language in Spain; this is even very difficult to explain outside Spain. It is very difficult to support a Government that seeks to subdue education in the darkness of ideology and to end the lack of freedom left to parents to decide on the type of education they want for their children, and, by the way, gentlemen of the Government, the children are their parents, not the State. [[Applauds]] It is very difficult to support a Government that is obsessed with harming the most defenceless children, the most vulnerable, and removing their right to special education, and it does not understand that this is simply monstrous; it is not an ideological issue, neither of the left nor of the right, it is inexplicable. It is very difficult to support the Government that imposes on us the ministry of truth so that we cannot disagree or denounce the calamities that it generates for the Spaniards and that orders the Civil Guard to monitor our opinions or that it puts the National Intelligence Centre to monitor and insult our own intelligence under the premise that patriotism is a risk and that multiculturalism and globalism is what must be imposed. It is impossible to support a government that prevents the Spaniards from leaving Carabanchel but does not prevent thousands of illegal immigrants from assaulting us on the Canary coast or assaulting our coasts in the south of the peninsula without any control. [[Applauds]] It is very difficult to support a government that claims that the Treasury can clear our residences without a court order, Minister. But, if it is already difficult for us to support similar accounts before we know them, it is absolutely impossible for us to do so after we have done a minimum analysis of the accounts that you bring here, Minister, because it gives me the feeling that this government has definitely settled into a parallel reality, into a dangerous ideological bubble that seriously threatens the future of the Spaniards. This very weekend President Macron, who is not exactly suspected of being a member of our party, has launched in France an offensive to recover the economy with a historic fall in taxes, a reduction in social charges on employment, a massive effort in vocational training, an ambitious reform plan based on protecting, supporting and recovering, and an international investment attraction strategy under the slogan 'Chosse France', practically the same as we have been telling you in this House since March. Meanwhile, what you are presenting to us here today is a delusion of budgets that define as productive, feminist and environmentalists and an alleged recovery based, apparently, on more taxes and more gender equality inspections; a real folly, Minister, but a folly that we will all pay if these budgets are approved and if you continue to lead the government. Gentlemen of the Government, out there, in the real world, on the street, there is a real drama. There's a lot of people in pain, having a really bad time. Some have lost their jobs, a job that may have taken a long time to find after the previous crisis, and they do not know if they will find another one again. Some people are waiting with some uncertainty for the development of events because they do not know whether their employment suspended today by an ERTE will become an ERE tomorrow. Tens of thousands of traders, hoteliers, and self-employed have been hit with extreme hardness. Some have been ruined by a lack of liquidity and the impossibility of keeping their business open - some people from their coalition, even the vice president of this Congress, seem to be openly happy with some closures -, others resist with much difficulty, but they do not know for how long. According to the Association of Self-employed Workers, there are one million self-employed in the wire, about to break. There are 1 600 000 self-employed people who have seen their income drop by 60% or more in this crisis. But to you the traders, the self-employed, the small entrepreneurs are always suspicious, they are always supposed to be defrauders who, instead of thanking for their activity, the risks they take and the jobs they generate, instead of supporting them as genuine locomotives pulling from so many wagons, you seem committed to derailing and crashing everyone, including their families, suppliers and customers, who are wagons that could move precisely thanks to the impulse of these locomotives. And while we see families in such difficult situations they are forced to choose: either milk or masks. And I'm not saying it, we pulled it out of the press two weeks ago. We see masks worn, discolored by use and repaired. But the government refuses our proposal to provide families free of charge with these masks that they are forced to wear, for which there is no money. At least I am pleased, and I am very pleased, that you have accepted our proposal to lower the abusive VAT by 21%; it is better late than never, you are right when you rectify. [[Applauds]] I would remind you that the VOX Parliamentary Group tabled a non-law proposal on 2 April asking for a VAT reduction and another on 28 May asking for free. It takes seven months to listen to us. Maybe by December 28th we can have free masks for families who need it the most. [[Applauds]] The so-called aid which had to have arrived by now has not reached too many people, Minister, nor are the ordinary benefits, which accumulate unacceptable delays. SEPE officials ask for help, and it does not reach them because no one in their government listens to them, and at the same time the Spanish are the SEPE offices closed. It's all paralyzed. On May 13, I spoke to her in this House of a person named Marta, a known to me who had not charged the ERTE for months; this morning I asked her again, six months later, and still does not charge the ERTE. It's real chaos. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not that nobody stays behind, it's that nobody comes forward. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, take a walk along the lines of hunger. We've done it. Do you know what we're meeting? People who until less than a year ago would never have thought in their lives that they would have to go to a parish to order food, people who could not imagine that they would be forced in those circumstances. Some call them the new poor, ladies and gentlemen, but it's worse than that, they're the new invisibles, they're people who were middle class six months ago who've been abandoned by you and you don't even see when you have them in front of you. Yesterday I was told by Yoli, a waitress at the Palace Hotel, with whom I was at the door of Congress. He's been unemployed for six months. You didn't even see her when she was serving your coffees at the Palace and you still don't see her now that she's unemployed. But there are many Yolis, minister. As she is already hundreds of thousands of people to whom no one receives when they go to ask for help from a public office, to whom no one answers when they ask for a phone appointment, to whom no one answers when they try to contact the Administration by digital means. You are the new invisibles, ladies and gentlemen, and you are abandoning them. Ladies and gentlemen, feminists, environmentalists, communists, separatists, terrorists, those people are on the street and they don't understand today's debate, they don't understand that the rulers are raising salaries. Fortunately, the VOX Parliamentary Group was able to block the rise they intended to bring to this House from the salaries of Members. But the budget of high-level posts that you have in the General Budgets of the State rises by 15% and it is not understood, as we do not understand, with which it is falling, that twenty-two ministries are maintained, with their ministers, their secretaries of state, their directors-general, their advisers, and they do not cut political spending at all. It is not understood that budgets bring 100 million euros in official cars, however ecological or zero emissions are. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish know that once again they will be burdened with tax increases and that, however, they will not be among the beneficiaries of that millions of rain for ecological priority. They suspect that there will be many beneficiaries of IBEX, many managers - not entrepreneurs, but managers -, many ex-politics. And the Spaniards begin to skimp on how you intend to water money to the media friends to hide the suffering of those same Spaniards. They begin to realize who are the elites who win with all this, the elites who depend on the BOE. Those are the ones who win with these budgets, win the boelites and lose the Spaniards. More and more invisible Spaniards are becoming aware; and they are becoming aware because reality cannot be hidden. There are many Spaniards who so far had neither visibility nor voice nor vote. It is true that now, with the fifty-two Members who are here to defend the invisible, the Spanish on foot at least have VOX, although I do not vote, but you know that you will continue to defend the elites of the BOE, whom you represent and protect. Ladies and gentlemen, the General State Budgets Act is no longer a law; in fact, it is the only essential law of this Parliament. It is the essential law of the year, because it defines what a Government really believes. The decision on how to distribute scarce alternative-use resources and the decision on how many resources we are going to extract from the pockets of the Spaniards is the most important law of each year. His mistakes, his negligence and his arrogance, those of the PSOE and the PP governments, explain that today in this crisis Spain has such a bad starting position, that Spain is the country that has the worst management in both the economic and health fields and, if we do not avoid it, that budgets that direct us to ruin are approved. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of the coronavirus was in Spain at a very bad time. The virus caught us without the duties done, without having made any fiscal consolidation efforts after the previous economic crisis, without having implemented virtually any reform since 2015, with a public debt that the governments of the People's Party and the PSOE had fired at levels above 100% of our gross domestic product and with an unemployment rate that was twice the European Union average and very far from the levels before the great recession. Last year in 2019 many indicators showed an accelerated economic deterioration and so I let the Minister of Economic Affairs know in this same room seven months ago. GDP growth had accumulated seven consecutive quarters of rapid deceleration, foreign investment had collapsed by more than 54 per cent and consumption, another of the main growth engines, had already stagnated. We again saw increases in unemployment in the second and third quarters of the year and the government deficit increased in 2019 for the first time since 2013. In addition, the first blow to the first wave of coronavirus was harder than in any other country in the world, again due to the negligent management of this government. It wasn't inevitable, ladies and gentlemen. You have listened deafly to many of the recommendations we made from VOX in the health and economic fields to try to save lives, businesses and jobs. We needed decisive, agile and time-bound measures, precisely the recommendation made to them by the Banco de España, but you did the opposite. You have adopted timid, insufficient and extremely slow measures. The result is a destruction of the productive fabric as we did not know in our economic history. We have suffered the greatest destruction of employment, the greatest destruction of businesses and the greatest economic collapse of those known among OECD countries. All this has caused an unacceptable social impact, because once again the best social policy is that of employment and unemployment is the main cause of poverty and social exclusion, the cause of the emergence of new invisibles. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, now that we are still unaware of the impact and duration of the second wave of coronavirus and we do not know if there will be a third and fourth wave or if the vaccines announced to us are reliable, we have an obligation to prioritise public spending to ensure that we save our businesses and our jobs and that there is no more stoppage or one less, because it is they, the workers and the companies who will be the engine of our recovery. And, of course, we have to concentrate on supporting all those to whom the crisis has deprived their right to work, because for a long time the Spaniards have worked for the state and, now that the state has banned them from working, it is justice to temporarily strengthen support for those most hit by the crisis. These budgets should have been those of recovery, employment and effective response to coronavirus, but no one in Europe will understand that in the most devastating crisis since the Civil War the Government is dedicated only to propaganda and, instead of prioritizing employment and recovery, is dedicated to trying to save its own livelihood. Throughout your speech, Minister, I have heard virtually nothing about the public debt, but it is that the levels of debt that Spanish public accounts are reaching place us in a situation of extreme vulnerability; vulnerability to a change in monetary policy, as the AIReF has already warned you, and to the emergence of events that - like this year's one - require strong state intervention; and, of course, vulnerability to foreign powers, as ZP has already learned in the last government of the Socialist Party, to the loss of sovereignty that our international creditors are demanding us to fulfil certain conditions to continue to finance us. Look, just this year, the government debt-to-GDP ratio will be very significant, between 20 and 25 percentage points, according to the Banco de España, we could reach almost 130%. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets need to be presented in conjunction with the announcement of a medium-term fiscal consolidation plan. Obviously this year we will not be able to recover everything, but we have to start giving some credibility to our public accounts, and once again you have preferred to look elsewhere and not assume that responsibility by deceiving the Spaniards. The budgets brought by the Government are unresponsible, irresponsible and diametrically contrary to what Spain needs. Unreal because they're made of flat and flat-out incredible predictions. While Spain is playing its international credibility, the government presents the most irresponsible political accounts in history with a projected hole of more than €80 billion. Irresponsible accounts also on the income side, which are impossible to achieve and expenses which are impossible to bear, without the slightest vocation to reduce the superfluous to concentrate on the health, economic and social crisis in which they have installed us. Firstly, the revenue side is simply not credible because of the GDP growth estimate, which you put at 9.8 for the next year knowing that the IMF expects 7.2 and that the Bank of Spain reduces it by half, 4.1; that growth is not achievable. Secondly, in a scenario as bad as the current one, you see a rise in tax revenue of 13%, slightly more than EUR 222 billion, a forecast again impossible to meet, as you know very well; either you know it and you lie or you don't know it, which would worry me even more, because it would mean you know less about Spain than we think. Thirdly, the estimates you made were made in a scenario prior to this second wave of the coronavirus, so the advance of the pandemic puts under suspicion the credibility of the budgets themselves and turns it into wet paper. Finally - and this is very relevant - it will secure revenue from European funds which - let us recall - are conditional on two factors: a reform plan that the Government has not yet sent and our capacity to implement European funds. And to put it in context let us remember that the extraordinary funds Next Generation EU, of 20 billion euros, which would have to be available in the coming months, are compared to 368 million euros less than they have been implemented in the last six years. It's a hard-to-reach figure. I have also said that they are irresponsible budgets, because they trigger unproductive public spending while destroying precisely the productive fabric with a fiscal rise at the worst possible time. Minister, it's up to you to choose. If we want to be able to cover the health, social and economic emergency, if we want to preserve the welfare state, we have to put an end to the welfare of the state, we have to put an end to the welfare of politicians. We have already talked about the indignation that causes many Spaniards to take advantage of these budgets to raise their salaries, increase their salaries and increase the fleet of official cars, but political spending is much more than that, political spending finds its basis in electoralism, because these are budgets designed without any scruples for Pedro Sánchez's stay in La Moncloa, to pay support, to guide wills and to buy influences. We have already paid more than EUR 10 billion in this horrendous public spending race that some called on Friday electionists, and in these budgets there is much more of this. Electoralism is, in the first place, to strengthen the means that should be of public service, but which you without any repair have put at the service of the Government, such as Spanish Radio Television or CIS, an institution formerly respected and which you have sunk into the worst of contempt. Spanish Television increases its budget by 25%, the CIS by 13%. And then we have the ministries designed exclusively to cover the ideology of their partners. The Government of the twenty-two ministries, of the twenty-two ministers, appears to have found no superfluous spending to guide spending towards the most important items. Conversely, you have increased the spending of each and every ministry, but very exceptionally that of the ministries of Podemos. In this category is the Ministry of Equality, that of Irene Montero, designed to boost and cover its gender bars, which multiply its spending by more than two, increases it by 130%; the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, of Pablo Iglesias, which receives 30% more funds - for that there is also money - the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, of Mr Garzón, an invented ministry and without any type of competence, because the area of consumption is transferred to the autonomous communities, and will receive almost 70% more income this year - for that, of course, there is also money -. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is any time when a full reform of the Spanish public administration is justified in order to cut political spending and implement the priorities of the Spanish people, it is certainly here and now. [[Applauds]] Spain has to undertake a profound reform of public administrations that, on the one hand, allows to identify redundant duplications and public entities and, on the other, modernises the Administration by decisively betting by the Digital Administration at the service of the citizen doing more with less resources. In addition, there is a need to identify the indispensible, very large, spending grants that are defined as anything that is not geared to the strategic objectives of growth, employment and social protection. Above all, even if it isn't in those three points, Minister, you should be cutting, and you haven't found a single game to cut. For this reason, the procedure for drafting budgets, in itself, is perverse, because the spending programmes that you bring with you take as a reference, and so it has always been, the budget of the previous year, and increase: those of last year, a little more. That is why our proposal brings a new way of drawing up budgets, the zero-based budgeting methodology. It is certainly a much more demanding system for our politicians, because it requires that every year public managers explain what they want the money they plan to use next year in detail and do not comply with increasing by a percentage what was spent the previous year. It is not enough to say that this has always been done, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a government supported, obviously, by separatist allies, who are coming today to collect the favors of Mr Sánchez. In the Government's proposal for the State General Budgets, separatists pass their bill, of course, on the services provided. The allocation for the Basque concert will be doubled; an increase of 109 % over the last budgets approved by Mr Montoro. Catalan separatists will be rewarded with their loyalty to Sánchez when their disloyal autonomous government will receive the most investment from Spain. The Valencian Community will increase its investments by 57 %. On whom does the government depend? Well, that. But these budgets are not only unrealistic, electoralist and irresponsible, they also subject a serious punishment to the productive fabric, precisely, Minister, at the moment when more support is needed. The SMEs, the self-employed, the traders, the entrepreneurs, those are the only ones who will be able to lead the recovery and get us out of this jam. From the state we can accompany them, we can improve the legislative framework, we can promote their activity, but above all, what we have to do is not bother. Adding burdens, bureaucratic obstacles, obligations and inspections only prevents more and better companies in Spain and therefore more and better jobs in Spain. What we're asking is basic. We do not ask you to do so even out of conviction, do it out of convenience, because it is better for you and it is better for Spain. Do not raise taxes, because doing so poses a serious risk to the little recovery we can have. Spain is the only country, Minister, to raise taxes in the midst of the pandemic. The blow that the management of the coronavirus has caused to the business fabric is catastrophic, and we continue with the economy in shock. Over the past year, more companies have been destroyed than in any other country in Europe, and many of them are being debated between life and business death. One in three companies, according to Banco de España, is at risk of default. As we told you from the beginning, before we look for liquidity injection mechanisms, we have to prevent that liquidity from coming out of SMEs, which, by the way, account for more than 90% of our productive tissue. It would be pointless to remove water from a plant to water it once it is dry; what has to be tried is not to dry the plant. If you add to the punishment of business and consumption, you have no doubt that the few plants that are still alive will be dried up. That of these General State Budgets is certainly not the first fiscal blast that taxpayers suffer. We have already talked about the sablazo of the People's Party. Now comes the PSOE, which accumulates over the previous one, because if you had reduced those fifty taxes that so rightly pointed out by the People's Party, perhaps today we could speak differently. But it's just that, besides those fifty, the taxes that you raise come. Madam Minister, up to four times I asked you in this House whether you were going to raise taxes, and four times you denied it to me. The reality is that the Socialist Party, as always, is going to raise taxes to the middle and working classes, which always end up paying the duck. You're going to raise the IRPF, you're going to raise corporations, you're going to raise assets. You are going to punish one of the most important sectors of Spain, that of diesel, and not only, Minister, those who consume it, because Spain is the first producer of diesel in Europe and has a sector of automotive, parts and components, which is based on diesel, Minister. It would be good for you to make a review of the taxes you're raising and a review of who's finally going to pay that tax hike. You punish strategic sectors of our economy with that tax. They place us in a position of competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis other countries, unilaterally applying the Google rate, without waiting for joint negotiations, and penalizing savings, reducing deductions applicable to pension plans. They invent new taxes, like the plastic tax. Raise the VAT on sugary drinks. Are you going to tell me that the VAT on sugary drinks is for the rich? Are the rich children the ones who take Coca-Cola and Fanta or will be the children of all the middle classes of this country? [[Applauds]] Contrary to what the Government says, Minister, the large fiscal increase is concentrated in consumer goods that are widespread in most households and will, as I say, fall into middle and low incomes. As always, you will pay for the middle classes and get rid of those who like you, of course, are part of the 'boelite'. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain's problems are the lack of employment, the difficulty of forming a family, education, the decline of industry, and none of that is in these budgets. A few days ago, Santiago Abascal was able to expose, on the occasion of the motion of censure, an ambitious programme that anticipated the interests of Spain and, quickly and quickly, because I am finishing, I remind you how we proposed to support sectors such as food, equipment goods, banking, fashion, tourism, automotive, parts and components, with ten very simple points. One, to encourage the strengthening of businesses, self-reliant, merchants and entrepreneurs. Two, get the single market back. Three, invest in human capital. Four, invest in technological capital formation. Five, create a more dynamic and attractive labour market to generate jobs. Six, a massive drop in taxes and social charges to boost employment. Seven, a decarbonisation plan, through a policy of massive reforestation, interconnection of all basins and creation of irrigation, which could generate up to five million jobs by channelling water. Eight, an investment and infrastructure development plan. Nine, a plan to support the industry. And, ten, a plan to support our very poor agricultural, livestock and fishing sector, trade, tourism and hospitality, which are some of our main sources of income. Unfortunately, none of that can be found in the budgets you bring here today.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u49	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you should finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u50	Let's get this over with. In short, Madam Minister, we need a plan to defend living Spain, early Spain, Spain, which, with the taxes it generates, you, gentlemen of the Government, are squandering with your demented spending policy, putting the future of all in jeopardy. In a few years' time, Minister, when our children or grandchildren see this far-reaching debate on the course of our economy, they will wonder whether we have lived up to the circumstances; they will wonder whether we choose comfort or face with determination the challenges presented to us by the future. I would like to tell you that we did well; I would like to tell you that, although it involved sacrifices, blood, sweat and tears, we chose the right posture. Let us do so, minister, let us reject the temptation of today's waste, which brings us to the ruin of tomorrow, and let us be the ones who write our own future. We cannot leave our children a legacy of misery, debt and lack of opportunity. We cannot participate in a deception that condemns them to ruin. We cannot expose ourselves to the bankruptcy of our country and to having to ask for a ransom from other nations. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support these general budgets. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u51	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. The Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u52	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, first of all, I want to tell you that I have listened to you carefully. This Executive always listens to all political groups and tries to understand what political positioning is to take advantage of these positions best and thus enrich our own position and our own discourse. We, who are convinced democrats, respect the legitimacy of the vote that you have through your parliamentarians. We do not discuss what you sometimes discuss, which is the very legitimacy of this Government for its formation; a Government which, twice, has been endorsed in the elections as the majority that allows us to push this country forward. I therefore believe that your intervention must always be heard - I regret that others do not do so - but it must be heard from the point of view of really understanding what is the reason why you are in politics, ladies and gentlemen. I don't understand. I hear you speaking here from the rostrum, Mr Espinosa, and I do not understand what the goal is, the ultimate ambition your political formation has to be participating in the Congress of Deputies and politics. Because it seemed that you came to repeal the policy, at least that's what it says in your soffilama. You talk about the welfare of politicians. It's just those expressions you use, I don't know what they mean! You talk about us taking a walk - which you are surprised - through the areas of the humble neighborhoods, through the places where the people are, you say it as a work of charity: Give yourself a walk to see what is happening in the world. You do not know, Mr Espinosa, that our militancy, the members of the political formations that belong to this government, are people, they are those people that you are claiming from. [[Applauds]] They are the self-employed, they are the SMEs, they are the unemployed, they are the housewives, they are the people who have difficulty joining the labour market, they are those who have precarious employment. I don't know who his friends are, I tell him who are the usual socialist benches or the United Podemos benches. It's not that we have to be interested in what happens to them, it's that we're a part of them, Your Honor. Therefore, we live in our own families or in our own surroundings issues on which I understand that you are surprised when you turn around and see what you permanently deny. That's why I was telling you that it's hard for me to understand the clear contribution you want to make to politics beyond challenging it - beyond challenging it - because you're playing a game - I'm not going to buy that mental scheme - which is an absolutely anti-system game. You are playing to question the pillars of the democratic state, of the democratic system, of the Constitution itself, because you do not share much of the issues raised there, for example, the autonomous state. After that, you support the People's Party in those autonomous governments, but it also seems to you that this is a waste, which is a duplicity, which is an inability to govern, and if you had the ability to vertebrate Spain you would probably, as you have said or your leader has said, do away with autonomy and turn it into fifty-two provinces. Something like that has been heard, and someone nods. [[The Lord]] You want to return - of course - to the structure of the state of the Franco era, with the civil governors and with everything that it entailed, without recognizing the progress... [[Mr Ortega Smith-Molina speaks words that are not perceived]] Yes, yes, Mr. Smith, do not be alarmed - yes, yes - with the civilian governors - I do not understand why you are alarmed by that expression - and with everything that it represents of involution. [[Rumors]] In any case, please note, Mr Espinosa, that it is no accident that VOX tries to challenge the state of autonomy; it is no accident. The state of self-government is the one that provides public services - health, education, social services -, public services that you challenge because you believe - and so you express - that the state has to be minimal, that there has to be a minimum expression of public intervention in the future of everyday life; not only of the economy, not only of the market, not only of the business situation, but also of the well-being of citizens. You consider that money, better in your pockets. That's what they say and repeat it over and over again. [[Mr Ortega Smith-Molina speaks words that are not perceived]] Yes, Mr. Smith, if I know you're talking to me through the mask. The problem is not that money is better in the citizens' pocket, the problem is that there are citizens who have no money to put it in their pocket, Mr Smith, and yet they have to be entitled to a health care when they fall ill, to an education when their children have the talent to continue studying - the social lift - or to social services when they are in a vulnerable situation. [[applause]] That is why I was telling you that listening to your speech - and I have really put my interest - I did not find any proposal, some feasible, realistic solution that would allow a benefit to the general interest of most citizens. And I believe, Mr Espinosa, that the people of this country are not foolish, that they know that the problems are complex, that they are not solved by striking with rumbling phrases, of what is called the populism of our day, which consists precisely in trying to express an idea as if it were something simple when it is a complexity that obviously does not cover with the expression. Or, in other words, you with solutions to use, which do not have any kind of adaptation to the reality we live in, try to solve such important approaches as the virus infection, which you deny, such as the emergence of the vaccine, which you seem to be questioning here today. I don't know exactly what you mean. You invoke freedom by trying to make that freedom manifest without taking into account the recommendations of the health authorities... [[Mr. Abascal Conde makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr Abascal, without taking into account the recommendations of the health authorities and in an exercise of mobilization at the least appropriate time, because precisely what it is about is that effective contacts between citizens diminish. What happens is that I believe that after the exercise that took place on the day that you presented the motion of censure, it was that you came out frankly upset, probably because you expected something else to happen in this House. It gives me the impression sometimes that you have - you do - a sense of a parallel reality and then it happens what happened, that you stayed alone because obviously you have no support. You wanted to become the leaders of the right-wing parties, a very rude maneuver, Mr Espinosa, which finally didn't go well with you and which he did was to deepen the differences between the two right-wing parties, which it seems at least in the speech, tried to move Mr. Married. You've seen the opposite here today. What is curious is that you cut your clothes when you come up to the rostrum on issues that have been the protagonists of the People's Party - I said it before and did not deny it - for example, the fiscal rise; now, you do not have any decency in supporting the People's Party - even if you have not been the winner of the elections in the autonomous communities - in those places where you make up the majority and, in fact, you maintain - and for that this is democracy, this does seem to you democracy - in the autonomous communities to leaders of political parties who have not obtained the majority of the election result. You don't talk about that, you make a difference in the speech, but then you continue to rule together. Therefore, it is not understood, Mr Espinosa, that you should be so scrupulous about the issues mentioned by Mr Casado and that you should try to get us all into the same fold, which is what you wanted to do when you said that we were raising taxes or that we were making no contribution to the well-being of our citizens. What is VOX's economic and social policy? Mr Espinosa, why don't you tell her here in this rostrum? Because you have simply spoken of groups to which we must support and, if we agree, we must support the collectives, everyone, the self-employed, the entrepreneurs, the gender-based violence, the rule of law, the abuse of women, also that of unaccompanied minors, also the struggle for other countries to really live in situations of greater progress that prevent them from being forced to abandon them in order to find a better future. You want, in short, an autonomous country, isolated from the world, completely disconnected from Europe, a country like that of seventy years ago. That Spain that you draw is Spain that we have in the retina the people or generations that could see in their own stories how and how Spain isolated itself from the rest of the world. You defend a uniform country, a country where there is no plurality, cultural diversity, linguistic wealth, where there is not even political plurality because for you the only valid way of thinking and living is yours and all those who do not fit in with your way of living or thinking are left alone in democratic Spain. We do not think so, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, we are in the antipodes of your line of thought, we do not share either the recipes or the sensibilities that you bring to this rostrum, however, we respect that you are there; it is more, because of the construction of the freedom that has been made in this country when you did not even exist or were or when there were people who were allied to other political formations or other political expressions, when that occurred, this country, by the hand of a party like the Socialist Party, also opened up in the constitutional framework so that you here today, in this Congress of Deputies, may be expressing your opinion even though we do not share it or even though you say things that often offend the very democratic legitimacy of political formations that we have fought for freedoms. [[Applauds]] Mr Espinosa, some of the organizations that we are here have defended freedoms, we have fought fascism, we have been able to adapt ourselves throughout our centuries of history to try to meet the challenges facing society in the twenty-first century. We, Mr Espinosa, even if you do, have suffered terrorism in our own flesh. We, Mr Espinosa, obviously had to work for education to be public and for health to be public because we did not share a model, that which you defend, that of saving who can, where, as you well portray, better the money in the taxpayer's pocket. The one who has more, who has access to better services. Whoever has less, who doesn't have access to any service. It's the theory and the law of the jungle, Your Honor. That way you have to express how society agrees to preserve what is important is the law of the jungle. There is no limit or line to achieve general well-being from the participation of all. It is the very denial of the concept of society that you defend here in this rostrum. You want a state reduced to the minimum, I told you. Deregulation for you has to be the norm. All that implies intervention by the state in the proper functioning of society is an intrusion, is an intrusion or, in the end, is to want to put the hand - I think it is the expression used by its leader - in other people's pockets. I'll ask you one thing, Mr Espinosa, do not patrimoniate the Crown. I'm going to ask you. If you listen to me, I'll tell you, because I'm interested that Mr. Abascal listens to you, too. You, Mr. Espinosa, stop manoeuvring the Crown, stop wanting to patrimonize it exclusively. They're doing the monarchy a little favor. [[Applauds]] Do not let anyone, by trying not to approach you, by trying not to share what you propose, move away from our system of representation in relation to the Head of State. You want a country that cuts freedoms. To you, who go out in the cars to denounce or announce a struggle for freedoms, I have not heard in this rostrum any approach that can be used in relation to the improvement of people's freedom, so that we can get a better perspective among all of you. You veto the media in your press conferences, do not believe in freedom of the press, nor do you believe in freedom of belief. Try to demonize those who don't believe in what you, who don't think like you or who don't live like you. That is why, Your Honor, some of the approaches you make in this rostrum are very serious, and they are of enormous anti-democratic depth. You seek to eliminate some political formations that exist in this Congress of Deputies. You want to carry some political parties because you do not think like you, because you do not believe that you can exist in a democratic framework where we all have the right to think and believe in what we think, and where we can all continue to share even the ability to build a better future. That is why I am telling you that I do not believe in that State, in that society that you are proposing, and I believe that there will be few points of encounter between your proposals and those of this executive. I will mention the issues that you have taken up in the amendment, which you have said in the rostrum, although you have not deepened them, and which I think it is important to highlight. You talk about eliminating expenses and reducing income. You seem that in your amendment to the whole what you want is to remove revenue, that is to say, we do not make any kind of fiscal adjustment, that in the end the welfare state is financed if it can and, if it cannot, that it weakens, and you want to eliminate expenses. When you talk about eliminating expenses you don't dare point out the items you don't share. Are you talking about eliminating expenditures of gender-based violence, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros? Do you really think that this country does not have to arbitrate solutions to end one of the most unjust scourges in the world, which has to do with the fact that women, simply because they are - understand, Mr Espinosa - are murdered by their partners, who consider them their property? Have you understood the depth of the fight against gender-based violence for women? Have you understood how deep it is for women to have equal access to our male partners so that they can be in the places where decisions are made, so that they do not harm us in our maternal discharges, so that they do not have a pay gap that then makes us pay a lower pension than the rest of our colleagues, because we want co-responsibility in family and public life? In short, we want to make progress on an equal footing with our male colleagues, and you criticise the spending items that are aimed at combating this scourge or at enabling women to continue to progress and overcome that ancestral gap that we have for years. You are negativists in relation to scientific evidence. You believe that there is a certain conspiracy point in relation to the virus, in relation to how to combat it. Yes, Mr Espinosa: from the statements you make, it is clear that they give little credibility to health experts, to those who recommend that we follow certain tasks, certain initiatives or now, in relation to the vaccine, that it will hopefully work, Mr Espinosa. I hope it works, because that will show that, once again, science has allowed us to get out of this situation. That's why it seems to me that this strategy of chrispation that you practice - you less, I have to admit, that your benchmate and leader of your party; this doesn't mean that you don't have the same depth in ideas, simply that you try to have a tone a little lower than we usually hear in the rostrum to Mr.Abascal; it's not that it's good or bad, it's just different - and that strategy of lying drives them to conceal the absence of ideas or at least the fear they have of communicating those ideas. Because when you are talking, for example, about eliminating the democratic state from autonomy by duplicity, because you do not know what elements, you do not tell the citizens that what you are questioning is the Constitution itself. When you question the fiscal capacity, the contribution of taxes, you question the Constitution itself. However, they use the constitutional text when they want to put it at the head of any political formation that does not think like you. But, honestly, the backbones of constitutional politics you do not share: equality of opportunity, the ability for everyone to think as they please, the freedom to express it or to develop it. I don't think you want to fight the crisis, Mr Espinosa. It is my personal opinion, I believe that you want to take advantage of it and, moreover, to do so in politics in the sense that we have probably fought the most democratic parties so that it does not happen: through populism. The problem with your speech is not that it is ultra-right - of course, you can have the political aspiration you want to have; for that reason this country has built a democracy, so that you are sitting here today and you can express what exactly you aspire to - that is not the problem; the problem is when you want to take advantage of the crisis; the problem is when you, with that populism, want to try to move that solutions to this country are very simple issues, that what happens is that everyone else has been very clumsy. According to you, it doesn't matter whether it is the People's Party or the Socialist Party, and I imagine that in communities it doesn't matter whether it was other political forces; what matters is that you have arrived, who represent the new, the innovation in politics, when, Mr Espinosa, you will allow me to tell you that you are older than the black thread. They are a political formation that has an ideology that we all know, and that is based on principles that we all know. That is why I think you will have taken note of the explanations I have put forward in relation to expenditure policy, to income policy - which I will not repeat in order not to prolong my intervention unnecessarily - on your question as to why we have made a forecast of income in that environment that has been commented on, and why we have raised budget lines; headings aimed at those environments that drive growth, job creation, so that no one stays behind, and so that all people can have the capacity to develop their vital project. For us, Your Honor, what you have in mind in these ideological budgets is social justice. For us to be able to recover democratic memory is social justice. Giving people their space, women it's social justice. Promoting culture is social justice. Recognizing the diversity of our country is social justice. I don't care if you call it ideology; it's just common sense and ability to recognize what's different. Because at the core of respect for the other person is the ability to recognize that another person, being able to be different from you, has to have the same rights, the same obligations and the same guarantees regarding the exercise of their rights. It seems scandalous to me, Mr Espinosa, how you speak of unaccompanied minors, it seems scandalous to me. I believe that their expressions - those that make their party usually - have no justification whatsoever. [[Mr. Spinosa of the Mounts of Simon makes gestures of strangeness]] You do this with the eyebrow, but I tell you that you assimilate unaccompanied minors to criminals. This is what you usually do when you talk about them; you try to show a reality in which you deny bread and salt to these boys and girls, who come to our country fleeing from misery not always voluntarily, Mr Espinosa, sometimes ripped from their family breasts, sometimes for trafficking purposes, and arrive in our country through the mafias. You pretend that these people don't have any kind of coverage, they don't have any rights. I am surprised by the inspiration that your own political formation has, you who consider yourselves so respectful of symbols, religions, how you can think of human beings the way in which you sometimes refer when you speak of the neighborhoods where the MENA live, of the actions that trigger the MENA, without having any kind of data that supports it, just as you have no endorsements in which to camouflage your macho discourse or the discourse that does not defend the legitimacy of women to pursue their future. That is why, Mr Espinosa, and with this I conclude, in view of this apocalyptic, tremendist vision that you have about Spain - no matter whether the economic indicators go and are oriented in one direction or another - I think that there are many difficulties so that we can agree on the procedure for amendments to the amendments to be received by this budget. I believe that you really do not want to correct the imbalances in our labour market that I have tried to move this morning; you do not want to make a health system that allows you to be the pride of the middle class, that makes citizens prefer to be served in the public place rather than having to sign an insurance premium in order to have medical care; I believe that, in the end, you do not understand this country and are trying to use your political presence precisely to challenge the constitutional pact, to challenge all the vertebrate rights that we have given ourselves over the last few years, in which with so much effort, with so much suffering all the workers, the citizens of this country have wanted to contribute and have wanted to raise. We will continue to work for early-morning Spain. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Of course, yes, yes, to see if you believe that the only ones who get up early in this country are your VOX lordships. [[Applauds]] We, with this budget, defend wage earners, small traders, all the citizens who of course live from their work, do not have great assets on which they can sustain their way of life. No, this is not the objective of this budget, I don't know if it is that of its political formation; we serve here the working class, which is the one that is at dawn; the entrepreneurs, the SMEs that are the ones that are at dawn and are the ones that are protected in this draft budgets, multiplying - I will not make the new relationship, I have done it before and I think you already know it - all the policies that are increased in this draft budgets. More than 3.4 million workers have been in the ERTE. You have not said anything about this mode, you have even voted against many of the initiatives that this Government has brought. More than one and a half million self-employed workers who have, for the first time, received a cessation benefit. More than a million and a half workers in isolation, with recognition of occupational disease, so that there would be no problem with the collection of their wages. More than 950,000 women, registered domestic workers and temporary workers who have been protected by a benefit for the first time in Spain's history. The ICO's lines of endorsement, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 140 billion which, for the most part, have been directed at small and medium-sized enterprises. More than 80% of businesses, self-employed and micro-enterprises have benefited from all these lines of credit, as well as from the postponement of their tax obligations and all the instruments that have been put into the Automotive Plan, the Tourism Plan, the Research Plan, all of which have been brought to the attention of citizens in recent months. Or the Strategic Business Solvency Support Fund, which we also do not know if you share it, with 10 billion to protect our companies and our strategic locations. The six-month moratorium on social security contributions; the postponement of payments to social security, which has benefited 660,000 businesses; the vital minimum income, which you sometimes despise and sometimes take out to reproach the government for whether or not it reaches the number of people it had committed; the tourism sector; the automotive value chain sector, in short, ladies and gentlemen, the whole of the sectors we have protected. You have been the main adalides of the famous phrase: you have to choose between health and economy. I believe that during today's debate it has been perfectly demonstrated, after knowing the data of the third quarter, that without health there is no economy, ladies and gentlemen, and that without economy there is no guarantee of a health system that protects us all. Those forceful measures that this Government adopted in connection with the state of alarm you never supported, never, either the ERTEs or the measures accompanying that state of alarm. But today they have also not been able to present an alternative to that situation, and that is why I say to you that to protect the economy we have to protect health. In those governments that you support, those governments that you support with your votes - for example, the Government of the Madrid Community - you should be more influential in order to make them more forceful in alleviating the situation of the contagion and curbing the evolution of the virus. That is why the Government will continue to do so. I think this country has a lot of sensible people, people who are working for that general interest, for that common interest. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, everything that means strengthening the welfare state will count on the resources and help of this Government; everything that means promoting associationism, in terms of a developed society that wants to participate, that wants transparency and that requires accountability, will count on the support of this executive, and also all the productive fabric that has to adapt to the challenges of modernization, to the ecological transition - which you deny - and to the digital impulse, which you do not like very much. By the way, in this matter they always put the interests of the United States before the interests of Spain; I do not know what happens to them with the digital tax, but you who claim to be Spanish nationalists, why do you not defend the interests of Spain against the threats that a third country can make to the fiscal autonomy that this Congress can have or that our society can have? You just don't understand, it's that depending on what the item of expenditure is, that's what you're proposing. Therefore, Mr Espinosa, I am glad that you do not like these General Budgets of the State, I am glad because we really find ourselves in two very different models of society that each political formation, each political group pursues; in our case, PSOE and United We can look after the general interest, in your case I am not very clear what kind of interests you are looking for in the end. But I do believe that these public accounts are designed for the country to progress, to be more prosperous, to be more socially fair, to be more feminist - of course, Mr Espinosa - and also, why not, to be greener. [[Rumors]] I think you have a bad streak in the political line that you follow, increased - I don't know, I'm telling you with all respect, I don't know why you laugh - during the presentation of the previous motion of censure, but I want to advise you one thing if you let me: neither noise nor decibels make one more right in what he poses, not even in the half truths or lies. [[Laughter]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we know that we cannot count on you; we have known this from the very beginning; we know that you are not going to make any constructive proposals for these budgets to be able to move forward; we know that you are still in the no for the no, on that front that you are forming together with the People's Party. Therefore, I have little hope that we can find those meeting points. In any case, they have, as always, the respect of our political groups for the democratic legitimacy that comes from their votes and, of course, for the frank and sincere dialogue of ideas. But we are not going to be fooled, Mr Espinosa, you are pursuing a completely antagonistic social model that the Socialist and United Party is pursuing. It's gonna be hard for us to agree there. In any case, hope is always the last thing that is lost, so I ask you, if you really think that some item can be improved, to allow these budgets to progress and you to submit the partial amendments throughout the process that is being opened at that time to see if there is any question, any idea as small as this Government can incorporate. I'm afraid not, because we're going in the opposite direction. At some point, Your Honor, we can continue to argue, because our words, our ideas enrich the political debate, but unfortunately I think it will be difficult - for you and for us - that we can agree, because we do not pursue the same model of society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u53	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon. [[Applauds.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u54	Madam Minister, I congratulate you, because although most members of your Government have no experience whatsoever in the private sector and therefore have a very difficult future when they leave this, beyond being placed in the IBEX company in turn, you do, you have a great future in the world of monologues. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] You're able to talk and talk, taking a theme around here, another one over there, connecting things that have nothing to do with it, and sometimes it does it with quite grace, the truth. Because in some things you have grace in the way you say them, other less, because you have said some very serious things and some also surprising. You said that you have Spain seventy years ago in the retina. Well, I congratulate you, because you're keeping it very well, I never would have thought so. [[Laughter and applause]] But you say above all that you do not understand what we mean in VOX when we talk about the welfare of the State, the welfare of politicians. You say that your militancy is that early Spain, that Spain that is suffering, that is unemployed. Do you know one thing, Minister? It was. It was, but less and less, more and more you are away from that militancy. You know why? Precisely because you're the 'boelites' I was talking about, it's you exactly those I'm talking about, those who have been living with the BOE all their life, those who don't know the early Spain. You think you do, because you will talk about a friend of yours, a friend or a family member, but every time you see yourself more distantly, you do not recognize them, because you have never submitted to the adventure of going out for a job, of going out for a customer, of trying to issue an invoice, of trying to collect, of liquidating a VAT without having charged it before. That doesn't sound to you, perhaps on a theoretical level, but it doesn't sound to you, because you, the 'boelites', are far away from the early Spain. And that early Spain, which today is four million voters, but more and more, is going to surprise you not to understand it. And the more someone tells us that they don't understand us, the better we are. I am therefore extremely pleased that we cannot understand each other. [[Applauds]] You have come to say that we want to remove some political forces from this Parliament, which you have some democratic legitimacy. No, no, Look, minister, it is that some formations in this Congress have tried to eliminate us all, and in some cases they have succeeded, because in this parliamentary group, as in this other group and in yours there are also victims of terrorism, and for us that is a red line that cannot be crossed. [[Applauds]] And I will quote a socialist, the mother of a socialist, Mr Pagaza, murdered by ETA, who said - referring to Patxi López -: You will do things that will freeze our blood. And you know what he meant, even though I couldn't predict it? To things like the one we saw today, that you are in alliance with Bildu. That is the kind of thing that freezes the blood of the socialists of good, the popular of good, the Spanish of good who have always been against terrorism, and who are unwilling to whitewash a party like Bildu and give it a democratic letter. [[Applauds]] He is trying to give us lessons in democracy here and has even said that he gives us democratic legitimacy, which I thank him for. It is a lie, they do not grant it, because two weeks ago they signed a document the ten evils, all separatists, phyloterrorists, all enemies of Spain, together with you, to try to isolate us. It is therefore not true that you grant us democratic legitimacy. If they grant it to Bildu, they grant it to the separatist parties that want to break Spain. They give them not only democratic legitimacy: today their vice-president of the government has come to say that Mr Otegi will become part of the leadership of this government. Madam Minister, there is no decent socialist who can bear that statement. I should embarrass them. [[Applauds]] I'm closing up. You seem to be very afraid of this second decentralization: you don't like the provinces. Similarly, you think that public health is always good and private always bad. Do you think that the health exercised by the autonomous community is better than the central one? I ask you: was public health administered by the People's Party in the Autonomous Community of Madrid better than public health administered by the Socialist Party until the year 2000 in the Community of Madrid? Is it better when it governs the autonomous community than when it governs the state? Is it necessarily better? Is the public necessarily better than the private? You have come to say that the Spaniards prefer the public. Not all Spaniards. Do you know who doesn't prefer the public? You, because when your vice-president of the government, Mrs. Calvo, went to cure - and we are very happy that she was cured - do you know where she was cured of coronavirus? In a private clinic. [[Applauds]] Finally, the democratic lessons of the Socialist Party of Andalusia, minister... You have to be a little more careful. That party that said that it spent a hundred years of honesty and that it was passed very quickly, especially to the Socialist Party of Andalusia, which is the party of the EREs, of the funds of reptiles, of cocaine, of the ladies of company, is the party of corruption, minister. You are better off being a little more cautious, because democratic lessons from the Socialist Party of Andalusia are very difficult to swallow, because we have memories, even if we are not here, because what distinguishes us is that we, all - the fifty-two - have worked outside the public sector for many years before we arrived here. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u55	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u56	I will speak very briefly too, Mr Espinosa. I think it is clear that he does not like this government or the policies we are promoting. I think that is the only thing that has become clear after the debate that we have had, although it has also become clear to me that your proposals for this country are unrealistic, useless and anachronistic, because they do not exist. You did not make any specific proposals during this debate. In addition, I say to you, Your Honor, that you sometimes slide some issues that I think have a great depth, and it seems to me that it is important to stop at them. Believe me when I tell you that in order to defeat the adversary, Your Honor, it is not necessary to eliminate him. It is not defeated, in a world of progress, in a non-primary, developed world, the adversary through its elimination. This is more typical of the most primary peoples, of the situations of war, in which one denies the other even existence through elimination. When you propose that some political formations of this Congress of Deputies be eliminated, you are playing that war, Mr Espinosa, and that is obviously not democracy. In democracy we all respect each other, especially those we think differently, because those we think equally already have the capacity to share, but there is a just democracy so that those who think differently can sit side by side on a bench, debate, dialogue and try to reach meeting points, and if that does not happen, respect for that freedom of expression and the consistent exercise of that freedom of expression is allowed. That is why I am glad that you are here, sitting in this Congress, not because I am glad that there are citizens voting for you, but because it is the main expression of what is the building of democracy that has built this country, to the point that you, who challenge the whole system, are sitting there; just as there are other parties that also challenge the system and sit in this Congress of Deputies. That's why we all have to respect each other. Another thing is that we have the ability to make alliances in concrete policies or the ability to walk in even a similar direction. You have preferred to devote your time to a series of comments and slogans that I am not going to reproduce because this country has no time to waste and we have already had a lot of time to debate. Your Honor, I sincerely say to you that the country does not deserve contempt for solidarity. I am particularly sorry when you speak of other human beings in the way you do, especially when you are fleeing death or war. I'm very concerned about how they talk about cultural diversity. You do not respect the innate heterogeneity of all countries and, in particular, of Spain. You who are different are left alone, do not want to share your own public space. And I also believe that they are left with democratic values. Your Honor, you ask what I have against the provinces. Me, nothing. And what do you have against the autonomous communities? Why do you challenge the autonomous communities? Do you not think that our Constitution has been a success story and that the history of the autonomous communities is a success story? Don't you think so? Mr Smith is saying no, although Mr Espinosa is being more respectful and does not answer me. Don't you think it's a success story? Then why do you support autonomous governments if you do not believe in them? Why are you supporting parties that have not won the majority in the territories where you rule if you do not believe? Are they doing so to harm the future of these governments? Or, Mr. Espinosa, do they have the same principles and values? If it is a question of the Socialist Party not taking the place that the citizens have given it in the ballot box, then you point to autonomous history. And if it is a matter of criticizing the Constitution, then they have no problem in making it compatible with a criticism of the structure that we have built up for all citizens. Of course I stand for public health, of course I stand for public education. Furthermore, I say to you that this moral superiority with which you address all Members of this House I do not know what it is based on, Your Honor. You talk about whether Members of Parliament and members of the Government have worked or not. I don't know if you have approved any objections. I have never asked you or interested you, Mr Espinosa. I have it; moreover, in health institutions, nothing to do with the functioning of Congress. It has never seemed to me that this is an element to have to stand out in the rostrum in order to try to wear down or question the legitimacy of the other. We do not come here as representatives of the citizens because we have more or less titles, because we have more or less oppositions approved cleanly or because we have more or less experience in the public sphere, Your Honor. That is not democratic representation. The democratic representation with which we have been endowed is not a sort of technicalism for people to be chosen here by a court, by a competition or by an opposition. Democracy is much richer, Mr Espinosa, it is the one that allows a plumber, an electrician or any other person whose family has not been able to give him a few studies and who has had to work with fourteen or fifteen years. Are those who feel that capacity illegitimate, regardless of whether or not they have experience in private management? It is that you question the very foundation of the democratic essence and that is what we cannot share with the rest of the political forces, I believe the majority or all of us here and in this rostrum. It is much that distances us from and away from its model of society and its concept of politics, which is actually anti-politics. You criticize everything political. Even today you have referred here to the welfare of politicians. Your Honor, the welfare of citizens; the welfare of citizens is what is in this draft budget. Some of the politicians belong to certain groups of citizens, probably very far away from what you belong to. But to talk about the welfare of politicians is like trying to question the whole system, because what you want is for politics to fail. I'm done with this. Mr Espinosa, you have come to politics to charge the politics. You want politics to fail, because you do not share the institutions or models of society that we have developed in these years of democracy. That is why you do not believe in the state of autonomy; you think that the history of the emancipation of young people is a story that is associated with other issues; you do not believe that women have to be on an equal footing with our male colleagues; all those who come to our country are a threat to national security, no matter whether they come running from war or come fleeing from hunger, for you everything is a threat and for you everything ends up with the elimination of all that we do not share, as, for example, if there are political formations that we do not share. You are not going to give us lessons from the fight against terrorism. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you are not going to give us lessons to the political formations that we are in this House and that we have suffered in the first person the pain caused by terrorism, you are not going to give us any lessons on this issue. Nor are you more legitimate to speak with greater moral superiority on this issue, nor, as I said, on the very important scourge suffered by women or on the problem of minors arriving in our country in a very complicated situation in which the public authorities have to take care of them. But I do not insist because I know that there will be no meeting capacity in that debate. What I am grateful for is that at least we have been able to have a democratic debate, a civilized debate, which makes it possible to contrast ideas regardless of whether we cannot agree. Because, Mr Espinosa, even if you do not like it, for you to be here this government will be left behind and will continue to work for there to be no censorship of political activity, no censorship of belief, no censorship of thought. We are all different, we all belong to the same country, we are compatriots, and by the fact that we are not equal we do not need to eliminate it or any kind of measure other than respect, freedom and capacity to express each one according to the way he thinks and aspires to the model of society that each one has in mind. Yours and mine do not coincide, we cannot agree, but, I insist, I hope we can have civilized debates and allow us to continue to progress as a society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u57	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, whose members will now defend their respective amendments or, if necessary, set a position, I have the floor, first of all, to defend their amendments, Mrs Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would not like to begin this intervention in the budget debate that is presented in pandemic time without first thanking the enormous work that health, education and social personnel have been doing for many months and offering our deepest condolences, on behalf of Junts per Catalunya, to the families of the victims. Having said that, Minister, you do not change your attitude with Catalonia, which does not receive the money it deserves and yet receives a repression that it certainly does not deserve. You do not change the investment deficit in Catalonia, which will continue to receive below such objective indicators as gross domestic product or population. Its budgets actually provide for an investment of almost EUR 2 billion in Catalonia, 16.5 % of the territorialised total or 10.4 % of the total. Nor do they change their disservice to families and to the economic fabric; if it was already a serious irresponsibility, which we have not stopped denouncing since Junts per Catalunya, that the ERTE will not be paid and will continue to be paid in time, it is profoundly reckless not to help the self-employed and entrepreneurs and to increase their quotas. According to a recent report by Pimec, almost 30% of companies will not be able to cope with the repayment of ICO credits. Are you going to offer them a solution? For example, regarding late payment, Cepyme warned last week that 50% of SMEs suffering late payment believe precisely that these defaults will lead them to insolvency or closure, and the Bulletin of Morosidad and Business Financing has placed this average payment period in a record figure since 2011, increasing the time limits to eighty-seven days, compared to the sixty that the law establishes, or up to three hundred days, when it comes to Ibex companies. On the other hand, we are far from fighting this delay with the budgets, as the Junts per Catalunya initiative will allow when it comes into force, as the government only foresees an increase of 11% in this respect. Nor do you change your policy of late payment of taxes, as many other European countries do. Next day 20, for example, the six-month moratorium on the payment of VAT and IRPF ends, and if it is not made effective, self-employed companies and companies will automatically have a 20 % surcharge. How many days since the state of alarm was established, last 14 March, have been able to open without restrictions bars, restaurants, all the cultural world, aesthetic centers, sports spaces, night entertainment or shopping centers? In addition, how many investments have they had to make to adapt, finding themselves now that, due to the circumstances of the pandemic, they remain closed? These sectors need an answer, but that does not happen as with the help for parents who have children in quarantine, who seemed to be arranged just before starting school, according to Vice President Iglesias, and are still in progress. It was one of the demands that President Quim Torra had repeatedly made, and Junts per Catalunya took her to the Children's Commission. For affected families, therefore, it is another problem that is still to be solved. What is a major contradiction and something unacceptable is that, on the one hand, we do not allow ourselves to work and, on the other, we do not freeze taxes derived from economic activity. Nor do these budgets change the State's under-contribution to the Dependency Act, for example. You make laws, but then you don't comply. In this case, the increase of EUR 600 million is insufficiently ridiculous and, moreover, does not guarantee that the financing commitment, which, as you know perfectly well, was shared at 50%, while the Generalitat is now taking charge of 83.7% of the Dependency Act. These budgets also do not change the underfunding of key sectors, such as health, which should not be centralized, but we have already seen that, in times of pandemic, when it should be more decentralized, you refocus it. Not to mention public transport or the proximity plan. We should not talk about infrastructure, given its level of compliance in previous years. You also do not change that custom which you have to ask for membership, to pretend, as President Sánchez tells us, that we support you in exchange for nothing. That has also not been corrected by the presentation of these budgets. We amend them with the will that they understand that if they want our support, they have to work a little harder. The pandemic cannot be an excuse to pretend to vote for anything you present. On the contrary, the health crisis and, by extension, the economic and social crisis should be the pretext for changing their attitude. The pandemic, gentlemen of the PSOE and the United Nations We can, forces us to be more demanding than ever, more responsible than ever, and therefore to do more politics than ever. On the other hand, it seems to you that the pandemic is the ideal alibi for blackmailing those who do not laugh thanks to their budgets. Or do you expect us to applaud absolutely opportunistic gestures like this morning announcing the reduction of VAT, which we have been claiming since April? Because it seemed that it was not possible and, oh, surprise!, today it was possible. They do not, in short, amend their not everything. And it is sensational, because they intend, on the other hand, that we say yes to everything, even though that includes prioritizing investment in defence rather than in culture and that includes allocating more budget than ever to the Royal House, even though it seems more and more obvious that the Emeritus King does not need you to finance himself. But you have indeed needed to incorporate European funds, more as a measure of blackmail than of real necessity. There is no reason to believe that budget approval is a sine qua non for the receipt of such funds. The Council itself shall, in its proposal, suspend the sending of the recovery plan of each Member State to that of the budget proposal. In any case, the date of dispatch was 15 October; it was carried out, it was sent in time and form and, on the other hand, what the European Union is asking is that, in the reform package, the recommendations of the European Semester be taken into account; reforms that do not require budgetary approval. In the Spanish case, it is striking that in no way does the Commission consider that there has been sufficient progress. The objectives of participation in the labour market or in the reduction of school failure or in energy efficiency or research funds are not met. The failure to improve these problems depends on their political will. Finally, it should be remembered that what can depend on receiving European funds is the respect of the Spanish State for democratic principles and the rule of law. In that regard, Amnesty International's new resolution calling for the liberation of the Jordi is a new warning. That the day does not come when, in pursuit of Catalan dissent, Spanish citizens are left without European aid. The bill presented is insufficient to successfully address the social and economic challenges that Catalan society needs. Let no one talk about irresponsibility when it comes to not facilitating the processing of these budgets. We would be irresponsible if we did not always demand improvement, if we did not always defend the resources that Catalonia needs at any level. The irresponsible thing would be to do it for free. It would be irresponsible of us to give these budgets an acritic yes and we will not do so. We are presenting this amendment in its entirety precisely on account of responsibility, in order to defend the needs of the citizenry. In short, we tabled the amendment because, for those of us who made the EGB, an insufficient budget for Catalonia, insufficient for families who are not the real family and insufficient for the productive fabric, is a very poor budget. It's over, Mr. President. These are economic shortcomings that add up to democratic shortcomings that we cannot forget. To this day, Spain is a country with political prisoners and exiles, and only because of this situation of democratic exceptionality have some political formations submitted amendments to the whole of the last budgets; amendments which, to this day, remain in full force and which could be reproduced word by word, perhaps incorporating elements that even increase the situation of democratic deterioration. We will never normalize what is not normal. So, gentlemen of the PSOE and the United Nations We can, we will not vote on budgets in exchange for budget lines as long as we are separated from a political criminalization from which they should not be complicit; they should try to solve it politically. Our position is the result of a permanent commitment to the defence of democracy and the freedoms of our country. What is at stake is rights, democracy and the maintenance of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u59	Mrs. Borràs, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u60	I'm done, it's the last sentence. And see that this last argument is not ours. We subscribe, however, in its entirety; it is the literal transcription of the main argument on which in 2019 the comrades of Esquerra Republicana based their amendment to the whole of the draft General Budgets of the State. Minister, amend your attitude with Catalonia and we will not have to amend your budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u61	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Then, in order to defend your amendments, I have the floor, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, the draft budgets they present are, in our view, far removed from truly transformative policies which will bet that the exit from the economic and social crisis will not, once again, fall on the social majority and act as a real mechanism for social rebalancing. But, moreover, in relation to territorialized investment, these budgets are clearly negative and discriminatory with Galicia. It is unacceptable that, with our nation suffering from a historical deficit in investments, equipment and infrastructure, especially in the field of rail mobility, the draft budgets not only do not compensate for that deficit but do not meet the peremptory needs of our country. The Galicians and Galicians cannot accept - and the BNG will not - that despite the fact that the overall budget increases by 19.4% and Chapters 6 and 7 by 138 %, direct investment in our country is reduced by 11.4% compared to the budgets of the People's Party of 2008, already clearly insufficient. The territorialised investment in Galicia is 832 million euros, far from the urgent needs we have. In addition, Galicia suffers from an unjust financing system whereby our nation makes a huge net contribution to the state's arks. However, the resources you will receive from the autonomous financing system fall by 1.6% compared to 2020, EUR 125 million less. An obvious aggravation with our country is also that of investment in infrastructure. Despite the fact that the MITMA increases chapters 6 and 7 by more than 50%, investments in Galicia fall significantly and maintain the constant of the Spanish governments of one or another sign of discriminating against our country. It does not serve us the argument that the higher investments of previous years were justified by the high speed, to begin with, because Galicia has great needs in railway matters that go beyond the AVE, since the priority for us is to articulate internal mobility in a sustainable way and with a modern and efficient network. The reality is that most railway lines are in a state of abandonment, however, the Government does not foresee departures or are merely symbolic for the lines A Coruña-Lugo, A Coruña-Ferrol or FEVE Ferrol-Ribadeo. Nor for the railway connection to the external port of A Coruña, or for the south exit of Vigo that completes the Atlantic Axis to the Portuguese border. But even with regard to the AVE, the government does not comply. Remember that to be really high speed Ourense needs a variant, but to do so only 29 million euros of 636 in which it is budgeted are recorded. The same applies to road infrastructure. In addition to finally completing the A-54 Compostela-Lugo motorway, it is necessary to advance in the A-56 Ourense-Lugo and in the A-74, in A Mariña, but only symbolic departures are contemplated, which shows the lack of will of the ministry to execute them. Of course, we welcome the allowances for the AP-9 tolls, which are 55 million thanks to the insistence of the BNG. On the other hand, we cannot share a project in which, in the midst of the health pandemic, without counting European funds, more than 40% of the real investments of the state are devoted to the military sphere, or that the budget of the Royal House is increased by 6.9%. For us it is unjustifiable that after the scandals related to the corruption of the Bourbons, the accounts with millions in tax havens and the spending with opaque cards, the allocation to the corrupt monarchy is increased. We understand that always, but more in this exceptional situation, the absolute priority must be social spending, ensuring the protection of the most disadvantaged sectors and strengthening quality public services. And one of the main problems in the health system is the lack of human resources and the precarious conditions in which they operate, a problem that is impossible to solve without eliminating the troop replacement rate. This Congress recommended that the Government do so thanks to a proposal from the BNG, but not only do they not eliminate it in health care, but they keep it for the entire public sector. We bet to repeal the labour reform and also to change the tax system to pay more for those who have more. For example, in the Property Act we propose to raise the tax from EUR 1 million and not from EUR 10, as you propose, to modify the IRPF so as not to harm people with lower incomes and more than one payer, to resolve the unfair tax treatment of returned migrants or to eliminate VAT from masks. By the way, we have been claiming this for months; we are glad that you finally announce it. As far as pensions are concerned, beyond the revaluation of 0.9, it is necessary to raise the minimum levels to match them to the inter-professional minimum wage. In short, these budgets do not reflect the needs of Galicia and its people: less investment, less autonomous financing. We note again that our country will not find a solution to its pressing problems within the current political legal framework. To have the capacity to decide sovereignly on our own resources and to set priorities is essential for further progress, as the State once again turns its back on our country and on the social majority of our people. In no way can we consider social budgets that do not discriminate and do not meet the needs of Galicians and Galicians. It is absolutely unacceptable and therefore the BNG has tabled an amendment in its entirety and will also submit partial amendments. I'm done. We do not need the blackmail of what, or this, or chaos, as they intended to do with municipal remnants. Other better budgets, also for Galicia, are possible. We would like to be able to vote yes on the final approval because that would mean good news for Galicia, but for that the Government has to move and correct the treatment they give our country. It is what the BNG expects and, above all, it is what the Galicians and the Galicians expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to establish his position, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u64	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak briefly. In order to position ourselves, because we have been listening to many positions during these hours, we are in a parliamentary process of the budgets. Do we approve the budgets today? No, it is the parliamentary procedure for an amendment as a whole. What does an amendment to the whole mean? That the budgets are returned and the negotiation or improvement of them does not continue. We, the Democratic Party, have not tabled an amendment as a whole and we are going to vote against the amendments as a whole. Let's try to explain ourselves. What's the context? An abnormal context: budgets of the previous government approved two and a half years ago and to which the Democratic Party voted against. If these budgets are returned today, the budget of the People's Party continues. Second circumstance, absolute abnormality: we are in the worst pandemic that we have experienced our generation and one of the worst economic and social crises resulting from the pandemic. If the amendments are adopted in their entirety today, the remaining budget is the previous one, pre-pandemic and non-poverty, and it is also not baladí to explain that there have been two general elections, the result of which we might have liked to have been another, but it has been the one. Therefore, in view of this situation, the failure to present an amendment in its entirety does not mean, Minister - and you know it - that we agree with the budget and does not mean that we are going to vote on it, but it does mean that we want to give this budget an opportunity to be improved among all the parliamentary groups. Today we are voting on this, simply this; we are voting on whether to negotiate the budget under certain circumstances or simply to continue the previous budget and not to give us a chance to negotiate. Something I'll reserve for the second intervention, Minister. I do not have time to make an analysis of the whole budget, but I have been positioning myself, and you know it, in the Committee on Budgets and I will continue to do so. As regards the macroeconomic picture - you know my opinion -, we have trusted everything - let us hope so - that the vaccine is very soon and that this recovery that has taken place in the third quarter can be reproduced already in the first, second and third quarters of next year. If so, the macroeconomic picture can be met. If not, we will have a problem and we will have to react. With regard to income, we have room for improvement. Today you have announced a measure that we have been asking for, that we understand that it could have been announced earlier, but it is already an improvement. Even so, we have room for improvement and we will make proposals to you. With regard to expenditure - we should also be very extensive here - there is room for improvement, Minister. There is this in relation to Catalonia and we believe that investments should be greater, and so we are going to put it to you, but there is also room for improvement in relation to the treatment of different groups, and we are going to put it to you because there are many examples. What happened this week in Catalonia with the aid to the self-employed is a misconception, implausible to the Government of the Generalitat without any doubt, but it is a misconception that the central government has not supported the self-employed with measures similar to or greater than those that occurred in the first wave of the pandemic, and this we must also resolve in this budget. In addition, we will make improvements in this regard. In any case, Minister, the Democratic Party gives the opportunity to negotiate these budgets. So far we have had good words, good intentions on the part of the government, I do not deny it, and I welcome them, but you know that this is not enough. We have three weeks or twenty days to agree. Let's hope so. If not, we will not have moved, but we will have made the gesture of responsibility, because the responsibility today is not to maintain the budgets of the People's Party and to give a no to the negotiation. The responsibility, which is certainly more difficult to assume, is to sit down and negotiate. We'll see if the deal's possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u65	Thank you very much. Likewise, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor to set his position. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I was preparing some notes for the speech, Minister, and I was constantly being cross-referenced with the news and the stir that has been generated by the announcement of the pharmaceutical company Pfizer that it has possibly come to discover a vaccine that would be effective. Allow me a slight parenthesis. That company should be Spanish and it is not a Spanish company that will arrive, because we have been cutting in research, science and R & D since 2010. No examples are needed this time with the Iphone, but if there is no Spanish public investment then there are no Spanish patents. The company's press release, from the pharmaceutical company Pfizer, said that an effective vaccine had been achieved. It's not an effective vaccine yet. This means that it is effective in the laboratory, in the project, but that it has not yet been tested in real life, that it has no perfect conditions, that it has not been approved in the day-to-day, that it has not landed, and above all it means that it needs time from the announcement until it is made. I think that's a bit what happens to him in this draft General State Budgets. The laboratory project is promising, and we are going to let it pass, but it has to concentrate, it has to land, and it also has to do it in a devastated social landscape and it has to do it quickly. It would not be the first time, unfortunately, Minister, that a great announcement that occupies large headlines becomes important disappointments for the most disadvantaged sectors in Spain in recent months. I tell you that we are going to let it go, first of all, because we believe that the draft budgets point in the right direction. It is certainly an expansive budget of EUR 91 billion, with up to 20% more than in 2018; it is a budget that is decisively committed to the ecological transition, to the change of the energy matrix and invests and mobilizes up to EUR 5300 million in renewable energy and, therefore, to the possibility of generating green jobs in Spain and that, moreover, starts, at least on paper, to look at the most disadvantaged sectors, for example, up to 2 points of revaluation in non-contributory pensions. But we are also going to vote in favour of it because we firmly believe that this government is doing Congress better. It has already passed the state of alarm, in which, thanks to Congress, the Government will have to be accountable and explain the things it does transparently and periodically, and it has passed in many other measures, in which the Government brought a proposal and the proposal came out of this Congress with more determination, with more audacity, with more force for the disadvantaged sectors that need it most. We hope that this will also happen in the General Budgets of the State. And I told him that Congress does better for the government because the government is in a minority; however, it finds a Congress with a progressive majority for social transformation and, therefore, we believe that it should be more supported in the Congress of Deputies and we want that to happen in the process of budgets so that the budgets come out stronger, more determined and more at the service of those who need them most. Budgets need to be improved from this process and from the discussion in the Chambers, at least in our opinion, in two large dimensions: in the medium-long term and in the short term. In the medium-long term, first and foremost, European funds have to be requested, they have to be received, they have to be channelled and they have to be implemented, and this is no less so. We need a stronger state not to lose resources and that is - I say it very clearly - hiring people. I know that today it is fashionable to sign up for this kind of anti-policy of the rich in which one is a millionaire, climb up here and engage in talking against public servants. I'm going to do the opposite, I'm going to break a spear in favor of public workers and public servants. We need more, better and better able to request, process and channel aid better so that it can be implemented and implemented with a direction of social conditionality, employment generation and environmental conditionality, i.e. less pollution. There is a very concrete example in that sense, which is a terrible example. This is the case with minimum living income. There are not enough workers to handle it, there are more workers in Social Security, people need to pick up the phone, people need to attend to requests. It cannot be, it is a real drama that people are assured that they have a right, that people complete the twelve tests of Asterix after being in social exclusion and that, when they finally ask for it, it is only 13 or 14% of the applications that have been processed favorably. This can't continue to happen. And for that we need a strong state and strong administrations with more personnel to train it and to train it faster. Europe's money, however, will not always be there. It's a complement, but it won't always be. We should develop an economic policy and a fiscal policy that will make the richest and the most contaminated pay more so that we do not always need those crutches. European aid is very welcome today, but we need to develop an economic policy of our own with the objective of no longer needing it in the future. In the short term, the situation is more worrying because the situation is more urgent. I have heard you say - I was not here, but I was following him on television - that for this government inequality is not an option. I'm glad, but for the Spaniards, it's not an option, it's a reality. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the 23 richest Spaniards have increased their wealth by 16% and we have 700,000 more citizens in poverty. That's a slab and a slab. European resources will arrive, but it is possible that it will take several months, it is possible that they will arrive in the middle of next year. Well, there are hundreds of thousands of Spaniards who don't have half a year to wait, who need an injection of resources and help now, immediately. They're not gonna eat headlines, they need an injection of public resources now. And if this desolating panorama becomes more families that go bankrupt and more companies that close, then rebuilding from ruin will be even more expensive. It is true that investing in social protection and the injection of resources for reactivation of consumption and economic reactivation is more expensive, but rebuilding from ruin is even more expensive. In that sense, I believe that we must concentrate on a drastic social shift. I was talking to him before the minimum living income, that if it's a right, it has to be charged. In the unemployment benefit there cannot be 1 600 000 Spaniards without any benefit. The most direct, quickest, most immediate way to reactivate the economy is to inject resources to which they will immediately be allocated for proximity consumption. And small businesses that are closing in on an extraordinarily difficult situation need the state behind, can't just be behind the big ones. In Germany Merkel has mobilised an amount of resources which I believe covers up to 70% of what companies were charging before the pandemic situation. We'd settle for less, but people who are afraid to know if it closes - by the way, it's bought by the big investment funds, which will concentrate property - need to have the state behind it. I close, Mr President, and Madam Minister, with an assertion that I have made several times in this rostrum, but that I now make with an international reference. These General State Budgets cannot be like Joe Biden, who is progressive just because he has Trump in front of him. They have to be effective, and they have to be effective for the people who need it most; they have to be effective not on television, not only in institutions or in parliamentary discussion; they have to be effective on the street so that we move from Spain from anguish to Spain from hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u68	Thank you very much, President. A reflection on the government of the Valencian journalist Miquel Ramos. Today, 13 years ago, Carlos Palomino was murdered in Madrid. I was sixteen, I was going to protest a neo-Nazi act. Today in my land, in Pego, nine young anti-fascists have been arrested for protesting against a neo-Nazi group, which went to their people to provoke. [[applause]] That's the price of fighting the Nazis. We want you to explain yourself in this Congress. Let us talk about budgets; today there has been little talk of budgets, I want to talk about budgets. If I had to summarize these budgets in three words, I would say: They are better, but better. Better from a social point of view: more spending on health, education, social services, improvements in fiscal progressivity. From the Valencian point of view, they also improve. You recognized him even Mr Espinosa de los Monteros and Mr Garitano. Thank you both, because it is good for you to recognize the good work of Compromís in these budgets. They are better than those of Mr Montoro and of Citizens, who were infamous for the Valencians. And they are better because they include much of the compromise proposals, embodied in the investment agreement. Proposals that Compromís has been demanding since the first day we crossed the doors of Congress; proposals such as that the investment was adjusted to our demographic weight. This year we almost reached our population weight; against a 7.6 a 9.6. Financing the unit, this year increases by 40%, as we had asked. Metropolitan transport of Valencia, this year 38 million, the debt of the Navy of Valencia or the impulse to the Mediterranean corridor. Are these better budgets than those of Mr Montoro, the PP and Citizens? Yes, of course, that is why I also have no doubt that the Valencian Members - the eight Valencian Members - of the People's Party will approve them and the two Valencian Members of the Citizens' Party will also approve them. The Valencian PP did not make any amendments to Mr Montoro's worst budgets; I suppose they will support them. And with regard to Citizens, I remember that a Member who was here, who used to be from UPyD and now is from Citizens, who once was in Madrid and now is in Valencia, was playing for his usefulness for having won 10 million. I don't know what I would have done if I had this year's budgets! Therefore, if these budgets are better, the Members of the People's Party and of the Citizens' Party will vote in favour, for sure. Well, maybe not, maybe they're voting against, because the Madrid management orders them to vote against, maybe. And what will Compromise do? What we have always done: try to defend in each budget the legitimate aspirations of the Valencians and the Valencians, improve the budgets with our amendments in order to overcome the inequality that exists right now between some territories. That is why we have not tabled an amendment in its entirety, because we want the budgets of Montoro, the People's Party and the citizens to go back to the history of the past once and for all. That is why we announced last week to the Minister that we would table partial amendments, because we believe that there are aspects in these budgets that need to be improved. For example, a better deal in Castellón and, above all, in Alicante, which, unfailingly, always stays behind; more investments in the transport of neighbourhoods and in the large cultural containers, which always stay below those of other cities. [[The lady]] And finally, to define the distribution of these 13.4 billion, because they must serve to reduce inequality between autonomous communities. Some of us always get out of the exit line behind us, so we have fewer opportunities. Keep that in mind, Mrs. Montero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u69	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u70	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in order to order this debate, I would like to address the groups that have not tabled an amendment in its entirety; in particular, I would like to thank Mr Compromís, Mr PdeCAT and Mr More Country who have not joined the block of the no and who allow us to discuss these accounts in this House, being fully aware of the differences that we still have on the points that you raise for the agreement and, therefore, we have to work very hard over the next few days to ensure that the response from all of you to these budgets is satisfactory. I know that it is not easy, given the so much fragmentation that exists in the parliamentary arc, to show generosity on the part of the groups that have not tabled an amendment to the whole. I know what it takes to make a gap in the political space that exists in our country at the moment and to be able to differentiate messages and demands, each of them legitimate and that they all aspire, of course, to one's progress in quality of life, in investment or in prosperity for their autonomous community. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of Compromís, PDeCAT and More Country, that the effort is worth it, that we are in an unprecedented situation that will also require that we have a different vision of the set of issues. I want to tell you from the outset that we are receptive to these proposals. I trust and am convinced that we will find the formula of agreement to achieve improvement - of course it is possible and essential to do so - of these public accounts. On the other hand, allow me to regret that Junts and the BNG were not able to show that same height of sight. To table an amendment as a whole - some of the people who have spoken have said this - is to deny that a bill is discussed in the House, which is certainly better than the draft that would be resurrected if the draft budgets finally do not go beyond this procedure. I sincerely believe that this is not what the citizens are asking us to do. Would you be able to govern a country with accounts that have been extended since 2018 and that do not at all take into account what has happened since then or, of course, the challenges that we are facing at this very important moment in the health pandemic and the economic consequences arising from it or the incorporation of 27 billion European funds that enable us to drive the great transformations that this country needs? Sincerely, Your Honor, I can understand the claims you make, but I cannot understand that you prefer to keep Mr Montoro's budgets. I do not understand this either on the part of Junts or, above all, Mr Rego, on the part of the BNG, a political formation which is understood to be progressive. As we have commented in some exchange of views that we have had beyond the specific issues relating to Galicia, which are undoubtedly important, I am surprised that you do not have a cross-cutting look at the draft budgets and prefer the cuts, the adjustments of the People's Party, to the expansive approach in social spending that these public accounts pose. I do not understand it, Mr Rego, and I regret it, because I considered you incorporated into the political formations of progress. I cannot therefore understand that you prefer a People's Party budget to this budget, even if it requires an improvement in the process of amendments. I ask you to reflect. And I ask you, because I know that Junts has reflected on it - not in the terms we are marking, but in other political terms that we will now comment on - and therefore will not support it. There is a clear parliamentary majority that we are convinced that new accounts are needed for the year 2021. Moreover, all of us who are supporting and betting on new public accounts are absolutely aware of the gravity of this health pandemic, which we could not even imagine a year ago, that we are facing a crisis that has no precedent beyond the Civil War and that we have to remember that the definitive solution, despite the hope of the Pfizer vaccine, we still do not have it. Nor can we forget that this draft budget responds to the people who are on temporary dismissal, to those who are at the moment having a partial closure of their activity, such as the group of self-employed, small or medium-sized enterprises that really see their continuity threatened. To deal with this situation, we have drawn up a budget that is developed in a clearly countercyclical economic policy practice, in which we want to support the welfare state and avoid as far as possible that no one is left behind. I will not tire them out by reiterating the global figures that the economic impact of the pandemic is producing in our country. A year on the verge of concluding that we are making a huge public investment to deal with the consequences, both in terms of people and in terms of business. I think you know all this, because most of these initiatives have had the unanimous practice of the political formations present in the Congress of Deputies and, of course, many of those I am trying to respond to at this time, through the Plural Group. I just wanted to focus on the fact that this context of budgets is what we have and that we may have to park the party calculations of some of the political formations that are probably more concerned about continuing a flight forward than really narrowing down citizens' problems. As always, I have to move you and I say to you that you amend, that you contribute, that you build from this draft budgets, but what has no explanation is that your withdrawal allows you to resurrect some accounts of the year 2018, that you probably would not have voted even at that time and that, as a result of not allowing your approval, it might seem that your vocation is to remain eternal over the next few years. Mrs Borràs, I regret that Junts justifies an amendment in its entirety. You have tried to talk here about lateness and other elements, but the argument is clearly defined in the document that you submitted for amendment to the whole, in which you said in text: We are presenting it, because it is difficult to vote on budgets in exchange for certain budget headings while there is a political criminalization that keeps prisoners..., and you were still on that argument. I say to you, Mrs Borràs, that every debate has its place, every proposal has its place, and today we come to talk about budgets, we do not come to talk about the political situation of the people arrested on account of the process. Today we come to talk about budgets and it is not understood that Junts per Catalunya seem better to have the public accounts of Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy. [[Mrs Borràs Castanyer makes negative signs]] Yes, Mrs. Borràs. When you prevent these budgets from being processed, you are resurrecting Rajoy's accounts and Montoro's accounts. Sometimes one wonders whether you are doing well in a polarization of political life, where you are not interested in a progressive government that is able to move forward, that is able to be fair to Catalonia, that is able to meet Catalonia's demands. It would seem that you lived better placed in the mood, in the political confrontation, trying to look for heroes or villains rather than really improve the day-to-day Catalans and Catalans, which is what this budget proposal does. Why are they opposed to the pensioners in Catalonia improving their pension, to the children in Catalonia being able to enjoy greater scholarships, to the better opportunities for vulnerable people on the grounds of dependency, to the companies in Catalonia finding support from the State for their workers to remain in ERTE or directly to the self-employed who have been forced to close their businesses? Why do you think that the 2018 budgets, which did not include all these vicissitudes, are better than the budgets that enter this House? I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that they do so simply because they confuse the scene of this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, you have voted on some of the initiatives that we have brought here, some of which are now included in the draft budgets, and yet you are looking for a set of excuses not to support it. I think you're afraid the electorate will be able to criticize you or punish you for supporting... [[Mrs. Nogueras i Camero makes negative gestures]] Yeah. Excuse me - I don't know what his name is, who is making gestures to me from the seat - but that's what I think and I'm going to express it because fortunately we're all Democrats here. I told him that I do not know exactly whether you understand that you can be penalised democratically in the elections that you are responsible for supporting a budget that seeks to improve the lives of citizens. I'll tell you one thing. I think the opposite is going to happen to them, and I'm going to try to give the reasons and explain why. With regard to dependency, Your Honor, do you think that it is better a budget proposal, those of Mr Montoro, which has 800 million fewer dependency than those we bring to this House? Do you believe that with Mr Montoro's budgets the dependents have better opportunities, opportunities or guarantees to overcome their vulnerability situation? Then why do they vote for an amendment in its entirety? Why do these budget items come out of line with this draft budget? You are on the verge of all these issues that are priority for the citizenry, you are putting partisan interests - yes, I believe, Mrs Borràs -, questions outside the budgets, and I think you know perfectly well that if budgets go out they will be beneficial to all Catalans, whether they are independent or not independent. [[Mrs. Borrás Castanyer makes negative gestures]] That is why I tell you to confuse that scenario, and I will therefore tell you what you are saying, not in this draft budget. This draft budget represents a volume of resources for Catalonia of more than EUR 24 billion, with an investment of more than EUR 2 billion, 30 million more than even the failed draft budget for 2019. Mrs Borràs, why do you not say that Catalonia can have EUR 24 billion to develop all its policies? Almost 2 million pensioners will see their pension increased, more than 40,000 parents will benefit from the equalisation of maternity and paternity leave. Do you really prefer, Mrs Borràs, not to say that for the first time in this country we will equip paternity and maternity leave, not to discriminate against women because they are pregnant or because they take their maternity leave? Are Montoro's budgets really better for you, who did not contemplate this equality or who did not contemplate the increase of these pensions for pensioners? There are 120 000 Catalan students who will see their scholarships increased and more than 100 000 young people will benefit from the Youth Employment Shock Plan for greater opportunities in the labour market. Mrs Borràs, why deny these people the ability to access these resources so that they can find a better way to develop their vital project? These budgets include 200 million of the agreements reached between the Government and the Generalitat to implement the judgement of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court. So do we want or do we not want the draft budgets to be fair to Catalonia? Do we want to pay or do we not want to pay some debts that we have with you by judgment of the courts and that you need a vehicle to become operational? These 200 million are for investment policies that, if we resurrect Montoro's budget, it is impossible to be able to tackle them. Likewise, your honor, it happens with other investments. The planned investment by Ports of the State in Catalonia is increased by 50%, more than 200 million. I think it is a need expressed many times by the Government, the need for the State to invest in ports. Why do they say no now? Why now, when it comes to putting lyrics and music to their demands, do they vote no to the draft budgets? Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, you know that we are going to distribute the corresponding share of the 8 billion European React Union so that you will contribute to this co-governance of this instrument and that the Generalitat will decide which priority projects will feed into these European fund policies so that they can be launched and contribute to economic recovery. Or does Catalonia not need this economic injection to promote its own operational programming from the government to respond to this situation? Similarly, your honor, more than EUR 4 billion is distributed at sectoral conferences on employment, vocational training, gender-based violence or health, all financed from the national budget. That is why I repeated to you that I do not fully understand what you do not like about this draft budget. If what they want is to increase the matches, do as the members of other political parties, who are betting that the amendment to the whole is overcome and then they will come with their claim to increase what they understand most fair to their autonomous community. I really tell you, Mrs Borràs, that I do not understand at all why Mr Montoro's 2018 budget is better for you than new public accounts that face the challenges facing Catalonia and the challenges facing Spain as a whole. Do you really believe that this government has done nothing for the entrepreneurs, the autonomous and the autonomous governments in relation to the pandemic? We have allocated EUR 16 billion to strengthen health and education or to compensate for the fall in income. Never before had the Government of Spain been so respectful of autonomous competences and had approved a massive amount of resources that had no precedent in order to be able to accompany the provision of fundamental services for citizens. That's why I'm telling you to think about it. You continue on a journey - from my point of view and I tell you with all respect - nowhere. It seems that in the confrontation you feel more comfortable than providing constructive and useful elements that will enable Catalonia to move forward in terms of investment, protection of the most vulnerable groups, self-government and co-governance of a very important part of European funds. I would tell you, Mrs Borràs, that please reflect and understand that on that journey you will not find any point of arrival. You probably have a lot to improve on this draft budget, but in order to be able to do so, we must allow processing and, above all, do not forget that we are opting between the budgets that come to this House today and Mr Montoro's budgets. That is what we are choosing and, if the budgets are rejected today, we would have to continue, as we have been doing, with Mr Montoro's budget, even though his fellow banker does not know why he is permanently with his head saying no. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, this draft budget is rejected and the previous budget is still in force, because the law, the Constitution and the budgetary rules prevent a country from running out of budgets. You should know, because you are ruling in Catalonia and you know that if you do not draw up your draft budgets in Catalonia, as you have not done in previous years, the previous budget remains in force. To deny that evidence, ladies and gentlemen, is simply utter nonsense. Mr Rego, your political formation has presented this amendment in its entirety to budgets that you consider to be insufficient and harmful to Galicia; you too prefer to stay with the 2018 budgets. Yes, it is, Mr Rego, if the amendments to the whole prosper, the resurgence budget is that of 2018. That's right, that's what anyone who's ruled knows. Therefore, I am not going to entertain myself in a thing that is obvious to all who are present in this House. Even if I hurry, in Galicia, obviously, as they have an absolute majority, they do not have the same situation as if we are faced with other administrations. You say in your amendment - and you said it with a lower tone in this rostrum - that these budgets cannot be considered social. What do you think is social? Did you think the budget that denied the funding of the Dependency Act, budget for 2018, was social? Does it seem social to you to have a budget that did not protect people who could lose their unemployment, a budget that did not protect those over fifty-two years old, that did not have plans for young people that would allow them greater access to housing, that would allow them a greater possibility of renting in a housing park of more than twenty thousand that is also being projected with this draft budget? Do you really believe, Mr. Rego, that Mr. Montoro's were more social? I'd ask you a little more rigor. You can always ask for more, and it is legitimate, Your Honor, to ask for more, but I think you have to transfer some data that undermines your own appreciation. Firstly, the state budget for 2021 allocates 6.9% of regionalised investments to Galicia. I want to say this to all the Members of Parliament, to all the honourable Members who are elected by Galicia, this budget provides for a regional investment for Galicia of 6,9 %. It is a percentage higher than the weight of its community in population or GDP. Yes, Your Honor, it is above the weight of your community in GDP or population. Why do you say no? In round numbers Galicia would receive investments amounting to 832 million euros, 9.9% more than the draft budgets that we drafted in this House in 2019 and that finally failed. I will detail some of the investments that you have claimed on more than one occasion and which are even included in our investment agreement. The largest amount, 7849 million, corresponds to Galicia's financing system. There is a contribution that allows the collapse of economic activity at this time not to damage the finances of the autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen. Only for this reason would it be worth supporting this draft budget, because otherwise the autonomous communities would have to receive the squeeze, the tightening that the General Administration of the State has had in order to be able to meet its public requirements. There are €870.7 million in investments, an increase of €75 million over the 2019 project, that is, we have improved over that amount. Of this figure, 832 million real investment represents 6.9 million, as it said, out of the regionalized total, a percentage higher than GDP, 5.2 or the national population, 5.7. And I give you this data because I used to say no, but these are the objective data with which the draft budgets have to be measured. The investment per inhabitant in Galicia amounts to EUR 308.3, almost 20% above the Spanish average, which is EUR 258.2 per inhabitant. That is, in this draft budget, Galicia is treated better than other territories in relation to the average investment per capita. However, Your Honor, it is not enough for you, because you have stayed in the investment budget that your autonomous community had when the AVE was being built. I have told you on more than one occasion that under the premise that you defend, that once resources are allocated for a singular investment, such as the AVE, they have to stay forever in the autonomous community, this would have implied - I can assure you - that the AVE would not have left Andalusia since the times when it was built under the government of Felipe González. If all the governments, when we start the high speed, we have to keep that investment budget for the remains and invariably, the AVE would not reach other parts of Spain, of course. We must therefore have a little rigour when it comes to measuring investments. If you were to tell me that Galicia is below the average per inhabitant, you might understand. If that had been the case, I could explain it to you; but being above the average per inhabitant and, as I was saying, almost 20% above the Spanish average, it seems to me a misconception, I have to say so, Mr Rego, that you, I do not know why interest, of course not with what it has to do with these public accounts, you have decided to vote together with VOX, with the People's Party or with Junts per Catalunya, rather than with the rest of the progressive bloc. I cannot understand it, I have told you at different meetings and I am also transferring it to you at this time. I would also like to say that we will allocate the following amounts for one of the projects that made the investment agreement possible: 55 million to the free passage of the AP-9, as we committed ourselves, to liberalise it throughout the legislature. ADIF will invest EUR 30 million in various items for the renovation of the north-west corridor as it passes through Galicia. EUR 29.5 million will also be invested in access to the external port of Ferrol. There will also be an important item for electrification of the Vigo-Tuy railway section, 7.6 million. They will allocate 6.3 million for the actions of the Ferrol-Vegadeo-Cudillero line. In short, Your Honor, I believe that the draft budgets reflect many of the investment aspirations that we had planned and committed in our own agreement to make possible the investiture of President Sánchez. There is going to be an investment of 20 million euros by the Ecological Transition for the regeneration of the ria do Burgo. Navantia will allocate €35 million to modernise the facilities and workload, allocating €65.6 million to frigate F-110. In short, Your Honor, I only see advantages for Galicia in this draft budget. I'm sure it's better. I am sure that you, through the partial amendment, could have improved it, but you have taken another path. You have chosen to table an amendment in its entirety and to interrupt the processing of this draft budget, and I am sorry, Mr Rego. I ask you to reassess that position, if possible, to allow it to be processed and we can sit down and see what aspirations you have. I am convinced that in any of them, but in all of them, we will have the possibility of agreeing. Mr Bel, I sincerely thank you for the tone of your speech, an always polite and constructive tone. You know, because we have discussed it in this rostrum during many debates, that we are far ideologically. In particular, I believe that political Catalanism has historically made very important contributions to the Spanish reality, starting with the Constitution itself. I am convinced that it is possible to establish such a dialogue beneficial for the whole of Catalonia and also for the Spanish as a whole. It is imperative that, with the strength of the word, we be able to overcome situations of disagreement that are already too long. I believe, as you rightly say, that budgets can be improved; you have said so throughout this week. I invite you and show you my willingness to negotiate in the parliamentary process improvements also for Catalonia. However, I think you also need to know that the numbers are positive for this autonomous community. In fact, I believe that, if they were not, you would not even allow them to be dealt with and would therefore reject them with an amendment as a whole. It said that 1999 will be invested,3 million euros, almost 2000. To this should be added 200 more in compliance with the judgment of the Supreme Court. I want to clarify this; these 200 million are not in the state's investment, because bilaterality is with the Generalitat, and it was preferred that it be through Chapter 7 and, therefore, we add it. But, ultimately, it is the investment deficit in Catalonia through the 2008 judgment that you won in the courts. On the other hand, ADIF will also invest €133 million in the transport of neighbourhoods; €100 million in the Mediterranean corridor, Vilaseca-Castellbisbal; ADIF-High Speed will invest 192 million in the TENT-T network of European corridors, 142 million in the Vandellòs-Valencia line. The Ministry of Transport will invest 99 million in road maintenance and rehabilitation, as well as an additional 24 million for the construction of the Variant of the Valls-Montblanc section of the A-27. In short, Your Honor, it could continue, but in total, 2199 million investment in Catalonia, 18.1 % of regionalised investment. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that we comply with the Statute of Catalonia; Catalonia is one of the communities that receives the most money from the State in 2021. I know you are asking for further improvements in the procedure, but I finish as I started, telling you that we are available, Your Honor, to process and agree on those amendments and I have no doubt that we will find that meeting point that we are both looking for. Mr. Baldoví, I believe you are honoured by the concern and dedication to the interests of Valencia, of your community. Today from the rostrum it has again moved that the investments have improved quite, but that you aspire to more, and I respect it because it seems legitimate to me. Therefore, as I was also telling the person I was addressing earlier, I am convinced that we will reach a point of agreement, a point of encounter with some of the added questions that you raise to continue with this process. You have also commented in the rostrum that, of course, we must continue to work to protect and, in some way, alleviate the under-financing that the community is receiving as a result of the current system of autonomous financing; a firm commitment that this Government has with all the autonomous communities, but especially with those in which the system of financing has a more damaging effect than for the rest of the territories; and, no doubt, Valencia, Murcia and Andalusia are communities that are in that situation. But I do want to say that the public investment budget is going to allocate 9,6 % to the Valencian Community, so it is reasonably fulfilled with the provision of autonomy. The same is true of dependence, a claim also from its political group, rises by more than 600 million, around 40%. We will also continue to work to ensure that the commitments reflected in the investment agreement are sufficient to enable them to be made. For example, ADIF-High Speed invests in Valencia €427 million. In ports the investment is doubled to reach 145 million euros. In addition, 38 million are allocated to finance the metropolitan transport of Valencia, an element that has always been the subject of a request by its group. In the same vein, the State assumes the debt of the Valencia Consortium 2007. As we have been moving since last year, the fundamental objective is that all of us who are patrons of this consortium be able to provide sufficient amounts so that they can continue their work and so that they can also pay all of the public providers who are demanding a response. In the specific case of the allocation to the unit, the community benefits from 456 million euros, a significant increase over the previous figures. With regard to the new system of autonomous financing that we have committed ourselves to presenting over the next few months, I believe that they understand that the pandemic has made it impossible to meet the deadline, but also, as we have spoken to you, Mr Baldoví, with the proposal that we have on the table, I believe that from next February, if the situation of the pandemic continues to evolve positively, we will be in a position to start the first in-depth discussions on the financing model. In the last budget of the PP, for you to have a comparison, they were allocated to Valencia 742 million; at the moment they are allocated 1165 million, almost double the investment that the People's Party had planned. In any case, I reiterate the readiness for dialogue. I understand that much of the elements that were part of the investment agreement have been incorporated into the draft budgets, some others still have to continue working on them, but I have no doubt that we will also find that meeting point that will allow us to improve these public accounts for your autonomous community, for Valencia, that will allow us to benefit from the more than 27 billion European funds. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for your willingness to appreciate positively all the social expenditure that goes through the draft budgets, because your political formation, in addition to being a training that pursues the best for Valencia, also has a marked social character and, therefore, I thank you for the support you have expressed from this tribute. Mr Errejón, I have left you for the end because within the Plural Group your party, More Country, represents the only force at the national level, so I answer you last. Let me tell you that I think we can all agree that you make good speeches from this rostrum. I would like to say to you that I am listening to you carefully in relation to the proposals you propose to us, with the improvements you put on the table, which, although they are critical - sometimes rather critical - are always constructive; or at least I read them, Your Honor. I thank you for the words and manifestations of the past few weeks regarding the overall nature of the draft budget. We have tried to be faithful to the elements that inspired this coalition government in pursuit of greater social justice, including fiscal justice, to be able to support our productive fabric so that it can take on the structural changes it needs for the future so that our competitiveness does not go hand in hand with job insecurity or does not go hand in hand with temporality, which are signs of the current identity of our labour market, and we can build a stronger and, above all, safer future for young generations, so that they can join a job and be emancipated and, therefore, leave their family home if they wish to do so in order to develop their own vital project alone. He also knows that the Government shares with its formation a progressive, but above all ecological and feminist, mandatory look that contains these public accounts in each of the items that make up this budget. Your Honor, I have expectations of the vaccine we are currently meeting. I hope your level of effectiveness, of effectiveness, is what the pharmaceutical company promises, it is certainly a step forward. Your Honor, in science it happens as many times in politics: probably on the first occasion you have no chance of acquitting all the misadjustments you intend to fix, but the first element is equally important so that from there it can be built again, so that if there is any element that does not end up working in the vaccine I have no doubt that some partial solutions will soon be provided to enable that obstacle to be overcome. I'll tell you the same about this budget. I am sure that the whole allows us to take steps forward, but I also invite you to have any element that you understand that allows us to move forward in the area of democratic quality, progressive policies aimed at the welfare state, impulse to our entrepreneurial fabric, support to the autonomous, co-governance also in the territorial model that we want with the autonomous communities, allow us to listen to it and, no doubt, we will be able to reach an agreement, as I said before, which will enable us to be satisfactory for all the parties. We are talking about a very significant increase in this draft budget; in education, health and social policy, all items are growing by more than 70%. Look, there is some particularly significant element in each of these policies that I want to highlight; in particular, in the area of health, I would like to signify the commitment that the Ministry of Health is going to make to the technological renewal of health facilities. I am firmly convinced that the public health system has to respond to the middle classes of our country. It is not a system that does not have to meet the last generation rights that require those who contribute most to taxation proportionally, such as the middle class, to be proud of their health system. That is why I am a strong advocate of incorporating into the portfolio technical services that, although not essential, even if not vital, will enable us to raise the standard of living for that middle class and, therefore, allow them to contribute with their taxes satisfactorily and not drive them away towards a private insurance system that would lead to a public system for all citizens and also technological renewal. As a person familiar with the health system, I say to you that the great suffering that the health system has experienced in our country over the past ten years has also been at the expense of investment and the inability to renew state-of-the-art equipment that allows the treatment, also of the most leading, to be approached at the level of our public hospitals. I am convinced that the public has to be the first to present a technology when it has been proven to be effective and when it is proven that it can make it possible to earn years of life or quality of life for people who have to receive this treatment. In education policy I want to mean the scholarship section, which I think is extremely important. We have eliminated some of the demands that the People's Party was making, that you will remember, and that they wanted those with lower income levels to drop out of their studies, while the education system allowed those with a high income level, although they will not enjoy a scholarship, to continue, an element that has been eliminated and so, for this year and for next year, we have specifically increased the share of scholarships by 515 million, so that they will reach a larger volume of people. With regard to social policy, I would like to point out to you that not only is the section on the amount of dependency important, but also the project that goes hand in hand with European funds to rethink residential formulas for our elderly or vulnerable people. I believe that during the pandemic we have learned that we will probably have to rethink how this system has to be so that if a situation like this has happened to us, there is no rapid contagion within that group of people, privacy can be preserved and there can be adequate conditions to replace the current residential park with a much more friendly, more quality and, ultimately, more secure one. That is why I believe that this draft budget is worth supporting, bearing in mind, Mr Errejón, that we have stepped on the accelerator in some of the policies we have recently launched to try to mitigate the economic impact that the economic situation could have on inequality. And in this sense, I want to break a spear by the Ministry of Inclusion, which had to launch an unprecedented benefit in our country in a very short period of time and which, therefore, has had to face a very important element of management. The same is true of SEPE, which has been forced to face up to a large number of requests, and I think it is worth highlighting the work that has been done by both the Ministry of Inclusion and Social Security officials and the Ministry of Labour, because they have really lived up to the circumstances and we have corrected some of the bottlenecks that we had in these devices so that the benefits do not only exist as a theoretical right but reach them as soon as possible. I would also like to say that we have not forgotten the policies of democratic memory, which your group also wanted to see incorporated into the draft budgets. In short, policies for the digital transition, policies aimed at our public employees. I believe that it is a budget that is worth voting on and worth highlighting because we will improve it, as you have rightly said, in the process of amendments. But I believe that as a whole, in its entirety, it reasonably reflects all the aspirations that this progressive government has and that it shares also with its own political formation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I am convinced that in these accounts there are many more things that unite us than things that separate us, but in spite of this conviction in goodness and in the need for accounts I deeply respect the position of each group and of course of each of its Member States. We are faced with an exceptional budget for an exceptional time. All those who do not understand this at the present time, I believe they will be dislocated in their political position. I am convinced that we cannot miss - and you share it - the European aid that will allow us to grow faster, the temporary suspension of tax rules or, ultimately, the strengthening of the welfare state so that we can continue to work. This coalition government has as its identity the dialogue, but today clearly the BNG and Junts take a step back. I've already explained to you that I don't understand it, but since it can't be otherwise, I respect it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I believe that those who do not believe or who fear that the pandemic situation may have inevitable consequences in terms of inequality should be targeted at these public accounts. The inertia of events is not going to solve the country's problems. We need to be able to put points of inflection, such as these public accounts, with extraordinary growth in each of the games and therefore trying to contribute to the general interest. I would ask you not to add to those who make the disaffection of politics their way of being within this Chamber, to those who made austerity out of their economic prescription, also with that budget for 2018. Don't keep giving them wings, because that time has really run out. Therefore, bet on an answer to the problems of people looking for alternatives that are false to us, that are not demagogic, and they will permanently find us working to try to listen, dialogue and take note of what can allow us to improve. This is what is intended here today. I would therefore like to end by thanking all those groups that do not present this amendment, transferring, as I have done to each of you, my commitment to be able to agree on these public accounts in the process of amendments. I call once again on Mrs Borràs and Mr Rego. I ask you to repeat the vote that you are going to lead together with VOX - look at it - and with the People's Party, as well as probably with other political forces in that orbit, which have not yet come to the rostrum. Those who want the best for our country and for its autonomous community have no doubt and approve the passage of this budget so that in the process of amendments we can take note of what you propose and also improve the aspiration of your territories in view of the accounts of the year 2021. That's where we'll wait for you, ladies and gentlemen. I wish we could make it happen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In turn, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have plenty of time, but I only have two minutes. Do you know what's going on? That you talk about delocalized and the same thing they want is to delocalize us, but no, we are very focused on the subject. You were talking about the predisposition of the government. As many speeches as I have made today, the Government's predisposition so far has been zero. You were talking about the lyrics and the music of the budgets, but to Catalonia the difference between the lyrics and the music gives us the result of a very faint symphony. You have spoken of supporting the welfare state with these budgets - they are your words -. Do we really talk about welfare with political prisoners? It's just that it doesn't seem insolidary to me anymore, it's that it seems obscene to me that I can talk about the welfare state with political prisoners. You say that every debate has its place. Well, do you know what's going on? That we are multitasker and we can do one thing and the other. We can be talking about budgets and at the same time we can be talking about what represents the existence of democratic exceptionality at the moment in Spain. Where is this government's progressiveism? Because it's not enough to go over and over again, to be progressive you have to be. I've got a lot of notes on everything you've said. It seems that when you speak of Catalonia you always reproduce your 'no, never, never' of Pedro Sánchez. The same for self-determination, as for the figures that guarantee a future of progress in Catalonia. Do you know what's going on? That the best budgets for Catalonia are the budgets of an independent Catalonia, because independence does benefit all Catalans. Of course, we tabled an amendment in its entirety, or did the PSC not do so on 3 February 2020 to the budgets of Catalonia, which were also extended and were extension of the extension of the extension? Well, they did. So you apply what you ask of us. We know that justice does not abound in the Spanish State, but it would be justice and would make us rethink some of our positions if you had made some kind of amendment. There has been no consideration of historical non-compliance, of the fiscal deficit, of all these issues, such as the return of outstanding VAT since 2017 or the accumulated debt of the famous provision - because it has never been fulfilled - additional third. Every euro on this incomplete list reduces the quality of life and opportunities for the future for Catalans, and we cannot and must not forget them because it would be an injustice and a political cowardice to give good budgets that do so. We're here to report the expoliation, not to vouch for it. As Ovidi says: We are no longer fed softly, we want peace. You've talked about traveling nowhere. No, the journey has a very clear destination, the journey is towards independence. Destination: Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u74	Thank you, President. Minister, we've received the challenge. Negotiation is always a challenge to which both sides risk, let us hope that we can fulfil it. I have been left to discuss two issues with budgetary implications, which it would be good if they could be resolved before the 2021 budget comes into force. One is a matter that has passed side by side, which is the COVID fund for municipalities; a fund that has remained pending, which should be resolved - from our point of view - and which should be attached to another fund for municipal public transport. This is not for the 2021 budget because it would have to be resolved in the 2020 budget and in the amendments. Let us hope that it can be done through a royal decree over the next few days, and so we ask. Also, Minister, we would have to have an urgent rule in order to be able to have some in-depth aid lost around SMEs and self-employed people who have been forced to close in a very difficult situation. We know that this is an asymmetrical situation throughout the Spanish State, but that it is asymmetrical does not mean that the Spanish State Government should not give any response, beyond what has been given. In any case, Madam Minister, we are talking about budgets, and in the budgets we all give up demands not only fair but necessary in other areas. That doesn't mean we're going to give in on this aspect at any inch. We also ask you not to give in any centimeter to those groups that ask you to negotiate a budget if you should or should not change the situation of Catalan in schools, which is already quite precarious. In any case, we are located over the next few days. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u76	If you think so, Your Honor, I'll answer directly from the seat. Mrs Borràs, I find no excuse not to support this draft budget. I believe that you, when you feel trapped because investments would really justify a favourable vote, are left without arguments. I didn't understand what you meant, but I think you've made a play on words that seemed unfortunate to me. The welfare state goes far beyond the individuality of each of the people who are here or who are on the other side. The welfare state is the guarantee to our citizens that they will be entitled, simply because they are citizens, to a quality public health system, to public education or to public social services. Regardless of who enjoys it or does not enjoy it, I think we cannot play with the welfare state because it is the only inheritance that the middle class, the working class, has, so that their children can continue studying or that, given the disease, one can find a treatment without having to look at the bank account. You say no to the improvement of the figures that appear here regarding Catalonia. You say that not all these investments that I have detailed to you at the beginning of my speech and you have decided to resurrect Mr Montoro's budget, because you probably think that in the confrontation with the right you find a greater political gap and a greater political space. From the outset, therefore, you have not transferred to this Government any will for agreement, no will for dialogue. But don't worry, Mrs Borràs, because we are going to continue in a titanic task to try to find through the word, through dialogue, the solution to the conflict in Catalonia. We will do so with those who are willing to dialogue and, therefore, Your Honor, I repeat - and I finish with what I have started -: I do believe that you are leading a journey nowhere, which does not really allow you to be useful in the concrete situation of Catalans and Catalans in Catalonia, of concrete investments. I believe that when political formation is not useful to the general interest, not even its foundational interest, it is really in serious difficulty. That's why I'm asking you to reflect. Mr. Bel, I want to tell you that of course we accept this challenge. You know that we have been working for several months now with the COVID fund of the municipalities, although this Congress of Deputies did not give you the approval. We are no stranger to this problem and I think we need to find a formula that allows us to be fair in the proposal and continue to speak. So I take note of all those issues because I think they are important. I would once again like to express to you my desire to be able to reach an agreement in the process of amendments. I'm sure we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, whose members will defend their respective amendments at this time or, if necessary, set a position, and in addition they will accumulate their time of reply at this time, to defend their amendments, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u78	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Minister. I will start just as Mr Baldoví started, because I think that when things are important it is also important to name them. Today, sixteen years ago, Carlos Palomino was murdered and right now there is a demonstration in the centre of Madrid to claim it. Today we have also known that there are ten detainees in Pego, in the Valencia Country, for an anti-fascist concentration, and right now another concentration is also taking place. We wanted to mix these two photographs with another one that Intermón Oxfam gave us with the report that he was taking out this week and that he told us that they estimated that in the Spanish state there would be a million poor because of the pandemic. And why do we mix extreme right, antifascism and poverty? Because we believe that this is the challenge we face: poverty, the possibility of the extreme right taking advantage of it and the violation of rights. We are faced with VOX continuing to do a policy of misery in the tails of the dining rooms. This is all we play and we think it's a lot. You will remember when we spent hours and hours in chats thinking why the far right was rising in Europe and the United States. And they will also remember that, despite the fact that politics is one of the most uncertain sciences there is, the arguments always came to the same side: austerity policies generate misery, misery breaks communities and generates fear and is a paid field for the extreme right. We want to contrast another photograph, that of the need for public investment, of public services, of collective rights as a way to strengthen communities, to break the fear and to stir up this pandemic that has postal code, because from the beginning we have seen that, depending on the income, it affects more or less. Sociologist Horkheimer said that those who do not want to talk about capitalism should also shut up about fascism. This is going to be the framework of analysis that we will use for these budgets. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety. And why have we done it, if budgets are much more expansive than there were? We agree with the minister that they are also better than those of Montoro. But we're worried who pays for all this expansive policy, where the money comes from. This leads to a reflection that we made on the day of the investiture. They do not pay either the big companies or the big fortunes or the big capitals because there is no COVID rate, which you voted against a few days ago in this House. Despite the fact that you do not make the companies pay, I want to give you four numbers: Endesa paid more than EUR 15 billion in salary to the first executive; in the first quarter of 2020 the dividends Iberdrola distributed were more than EUR 25 billion; Telefónica more than EUR 2 billion, and BBVA more than EUR 17 billion. In addition, the Supreme Court has just ruled that in the Castor case it will be necessary to compensate Bankia, CaixaBank and Santander with more than 1350 million euros, the same ones that were rescued directly or indirectly with public money and that you have also not forced them to return it. If you don't pay big businessmen or big capitals, do you pay the rich? Nor, because, despite the fact that you have made tax measures to modify the IRPF, the assets and the companies - which we think are very good - the problem is that they only affect 1% of the population and that, therefore, the numbers do not give. We are very happy with the news that they are going to lower VAT to the masks, we think it is essential. But we ask ourselves: why do you not force large companies to pay, why do you not force banks to pay back the ransom money that is of everyone? Why do you not suspend the quotas of the self-employed? Why do you not carry out a whole series of very simple and clear measures that would make you not pay the usual ones? It is that, if they do not, if they do not pay neither the companies nor the rich, we come to the conclusion that you are very brave with the weak, but very cowardly with the strong, minister. That is one of the reasons why we are presenting the amendment as a whole. And if they don't pay the rich, they don't pay the big money, and they don't pay the big companies, who pays? Well, it pays for the European Union. For the time being, it pays €72 billion through transfers. And the question is, under what conditions? The truth is, we don't know the conditions. We know the friendly face, which the president announced a few days ago: 800,000 jobs, 2.5% of GDP increase, digital projects, environmental projects, which the minister was now explaining to us. But there is a hard face of this money, which is money in exchange for what, to what reforms, to what counter-performances we will be forced to do. The truth is that you have not told it, but it has leaked into the press that we seem to be back to the same thing that happened in 2008: lowering wages, privatizing pensions and making direct transfers of capital to certain companies by environmental projects; even Iberdrola has environmental projects, with the one of dividends she distributes. Let's go back to the beginning, austerity policies that are cuts, that generate misery. We understand that a government that calls itself left-wing cannot put forward policies that are bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Have we forgotten the price the Greeks paid? Do you remember what that memo was? Have we already forgotten what austerity policies - or austerity policies, which some called it - were supposed to mean here in the Spanish State? Is there no other way to govern than that simple people have to pay for the misery of austerity policies over and over again? Has Podemos forgotten what happened to Syriza? This isn't new. What is not new is the transfer of public money to companies. I've talked about the COVID vaccine before. It's good news, everyone's very hopeful. What happens is that this vaccine is going to get you a private pharmacist, we don't know how much money it's going to sell. Yesterday it came out in the press that Trump bought 100 million doses for 1950 million euros. The theme is this: if they sell it at this price, is it because they have very smart researchers, do they have the best researchers in the world? Even so, but what also happens is that these people can carry a vaccine forward, because behind there is a lot of public investment. And again we are in the same, they sell it back to us at the price of gold. It's the same mechanism as bank bailout. I'm done. You said, Minister, that today is not the day to talk about conflict, because today we are talking about budgets. We do not agree, because budgets are the main tool for governments to take political action. Today a year ago this legislature began and just under a year after the investiture. A year ago we said that we did not believe in the dialogue table, but that we were willing to rectify, but also a year ago this dialogue table gave us a picture: a disabled president and a forced election. We have also had some confusing announcements: reform of the sedition crime, which we do not know what it will consist of, and some pardons which we do not know whether they will arrive, but neither amnesty nor self-determination. You have not stopped politically persecuting the independence movement. In fact, the Attorney General's Office continues with the policy of persecution and you have also not put in a ballot box, and it is simple: ballot box and referendum. And we are concerned, because the suffering of the population is very high - said the minister, said the previous spokespersons - and people cannot wait. We are concerned about the suffering of the more than 2,800 retaliated and retaliated in Catalonia. And we are very concerned - we are not the worst, better - because we are concerned that the comrades of Republican Left can approve these budgets in exchange for nothing. And we'd love to be wrong, but we don't see the point. We do not see that there is a possibility here of amnesty or of an end to political persecution. We do not see that here we are talking about putting in ballot boxes and making a referendum, and we do not see that this saves us socially with policies that improve the lives of simple people. You have spoken of the usefulness, Minister, of whether political parties were useful. We're not going to talk to him about utility, we're going to keep explaining to him why we're worried. We are concerned that the most progressive government in history does not dare with the giants of IBEX, does not dare with the rich and does not dare to negotiate in the European Union without this costing us years of misery and mortgages of cuts. There is another way to govern, Minister, and with these budgets we are forced to move forward in spite of you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President-in-Office, you come to this Congress with the greatest budget in the history of democracy and at the most difficult economic and social juncture in this country. Today, there are two Spains: a rich one, which is to the north, and a poor one, which is to the south; two territories, two classes of citizens, two different worlds in terms of opportunities. These are the two Spains that will continue to exist if this draft budget is approved. To rule with justice, Mr. Sánchez absent, is to treat unequals unequally. To govern for all is to redistribute wealth with the criterion of favoring the most disadvantaged, which is exactly what you do not do, because this is an electoral budget that seeks only to strengthen the political support it sustains this Government. You do not care and do not care to transform Spain, what you occupy and worry about is to remain in power. You have turned the old Socialist Party into a court that demands silence. None of yours tells you anything, but the Governor of the Banco de España, the President of the AIReF and the European Commission are telling you. You are being warned, Socialists: your accounts are untenable and untenable, as well as unjust. You don't bring Congress a plan to save Spain, but to save Moncloa, and that's not just a mistake in judgment, it's a historical irresponsibility. This Member belongs to the south of the south, to a land which is now devastated by the destruction of its only productive sector, a land which already has half of its active population in unemployment or ERTE and which is going to lose more than 20% of GDP this year. And when I look at the draft budgets that you bring here today, what I feel is sadness, because you don't understand anything at all. Tourism in the Canary Islands gives employment to 400 000 people and you have dedicated 20 million to it in the budget, the same government of Spain that comes to the rescue of AirEurope with almost 500 million euros. Do you know what that is? An indecency. But there's more. The Spanish courts passed two fundamental laws for the Canary Islands in 2018: the new statute and the new law on the economic and fiscal regime, and both have been breached. You have made wet paper the rule of law and the rights of the canaries. Our land has structural problems. Remoteness and insularity are covered by measures such as subsidies for the transport of passengers and goods, the production of electricity or investment in infrastructure. You have accounted for these expenses that offset insularity with extraordinary budgetary allocations to justify that the situation on the islands is already being addressed. If we already give them money, why do the canaries want us to abide by the law? The Canary Islands are now experiencing an unprecedented catastrophic situation and social disaster for the coming year, but this government has decided to betray the Canary Islands. It has closed its eyes so as not to see the disaster of poverty and misery that is developing in a unique territory of this country. [[The Lord]] Mr. Sánchez absent, I have been in this Congress long enough to know that you hear in this rostrum as the one who hears rain. They don't care what they say here, but I want to make one thing clear to them. When poverty erupts on the islands, when the Canary Islands see next year how their lives, well-being and future are destroyed, I will remind them of these words and I will point out to them as the only ones guilty of the lack of solidarity with one of the most vulnerable territories of the State for disdain, ignorance and centralist selfishness. Mr Sánchez defended solidarity in Europe, asking for 140 billion for Spain because he demanded the commitment of the rich countries with which they needed the most help. I give advice that I don't have. With the 27 billion with which you have fattened the budgets of 2021 you are going to water the autonomous communities allied with billions of investment, but you are not going to discriminate in favour of the poorest, you are not going to transform Spain, you are not going to modernise an old-fashioned administration, you are not going to tear down that invisible wall between the rich and poor Spaniards, between those in the north and those in the south. You will do nothing but your next election campaign. Today I cannot accept public accounts that condemn my land to unemployment, poverty and abandonment. What you're going to do with the Canary Islands is a crime. He has no other word, no explanation and no forgiveness from the canaries. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, Minister of Finance. The General Budgets of the State for 2021 of Sánchez, Churches and company are unreal and insolvent, do not serve to recover the job destroyed and lead to the rescue of our economy by the European Union. With this disastrous draft of public accounts, Spain launches its head towards bankruptcy and will be condemned to bail out to finance its debt, which means the guarantee of forced cuts in wages and pensions. You have despised the warnings that discredited your bad forecasts, both in terms of growth of the Spanish economy and of income and debt repayment. All the most relevant national, European and international bodies have all warned of the inconsistency and insolvency of the data with which this draft budget law has been drawn up. And what has the Government done in response to the warnings of the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the Bank of Spain or the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority? Desiring those outside, disdaining those at home, disproving the IMF and Brussels by saying that they have outdated data, blaming the Governor of the Bank of Spain and the head of the AIReF for doing something else, even saying that they are not who to talk here, in the General Courts, about budgets. I repeat: if these public accounts are not rejected, Spain is thrown into external intervention to finance its debt and to face payments, which means a loss of sovereignty and bankruptcy for the present and future of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to all of these public accounts which the Government has drawn up to the extent of its investiture support, in accordance with the requirements of independenceists and secessionists with whom it negotiates before, during and after the anti-democratic cambalaches that go far beyond the economic; to quote a number of topical cases: they try to infest the judiciary, promote information censorship, decriminalize sedition, which the Spanishman ceases to be an official language or laminate concerted education. Today you all come together with one arm to keep Sanchez in power and Churches and other abolish rancio in his undisguised periplo against the Head of State, aggrieved our main symbols and institutions and tarnished the unity of Spain. Mr. Rufián no longer needs to exhibit in the hemicycle tool printers, the representatives of Bildu no longer tear up here copies of the Constitution; neither do they need to mount numbers anymore, because Sanchez, Churches and the blue macrobank keep with them direct thread to meet their requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, my amendment as a whole has an Asturian aspect. During the 2018 motion of censure, the then candidate committed himself here to meet the newly approved budgets. Almost two and a half years later, with Sánchez in the presidency, the projects and priority issues to overcome the great deficiencies of Asturias are paralysed or abandoned and do not have the proper budgetary reflection. It is the case of the variant of Pajares with international width, the proximity, the plan of tracks of Gijón, the road links of our two great ports in Gijón and Avilés, the highway of the southwest towards La Espina, the North Round of Oviedo, the motorway of the sea with France, the electrointensive and iron and metallurgical industry, the mining basins, the power stations closed and without alternative, the Zalia, the agribusiness, the fishing, the depopulation and the neglect of the rural Asturias. And how can I not refer another year to the insolidary, discriminatory and dwindling system of autonomous financing, on which aspects as essential for Asturians as social services and health, today collapsed due to COVID-19 and with exhausted and unrelevant health personnel, depend. How not to warn about the estimated pre-allocations for the autonomous communities in the so-called recovery funds, which break the constitutional criteria of equality and solidarity, for which Asturias goes very badly. Madam Minister of Finance, Spain is in a critical situation and the Government has not even tried to seek a country agreement. Faced with the consequences of the coronavirus, Sanchez's everlasting propaganda announced new Moncloa pacts and everything was left in a bluff. The instigators of the world's worst health management bring us public accounts of unpredictable consequences. You have the dubious merit of having made Rodriguez Zapatero good. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u83	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to establish his position, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, everyone. These General Budgets of the State, this preliminary draft of budgets we discuss at a very particular time in the history of Spain, in the midst of an unprecedented pandemic in over a hundred years and with current General Budgets of the State extended since 2018. In other words, trying to ensure that these budgets thrive becomes, in New Canarias' view, a matter of responsibility. It seems to us that it would be irresponsible not to make an effort, which is what New Canarias is going to do, so that these budgets prove to be the budgets that the State needs at the moment and that it certainly needs the Canary Islands. New Canarias negotiated the 2017 and 2018 budgets in an environment in which we shared few things because it seemed to us that it was our obligation to the land we defend and its interests, as it is natural. This preliminary draft budget is, without a doubt, objectively better at the general level for the whole State, because it is an expansive, progressive budget, with clear countercyclical measures, with an important social content in defense of public services, in defense of an adequate ecological transition. That is, right, we fully agree, and we know that these measures also have a positive impact on the Canary Islands, and we do not forget that. However, I also have to tell you that this preliminary draft budget is from our perspective better for the Canary Islands than the previous preliminary drafts, but it is no better than the final budgets that were derived from our intervention in those budgets in their day. That is why this Member is obliged to ask you here, to ask you, Madam Minister, and your Government that the Canary Islands needs to comply with your fury and your rights. We know that in this preliminary draft budgets almost all aspects of the REF are covered, not all of them, such as being in the average state funding, but it is also true that there are significant issues that are not covered, such as the issue of poverty. This and the others are matters that need to be corrected. And there is another very important issue that I have to put to you again, although we have already talked about it on more than one occasion. The road dispute that we have raised, with that famous ruling in favour of the Canary Islands for EUR 517 million, needs to be resolved in these budgets; not in the budget headings, but in the budget law through an additional provision ensuring that this money, which is from the Canary Islands, will reach the Canary Islands in the right conditions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u85	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The budgets that are being debated in this House today are a fictional policy document. They are made not only from the back to the reality, but from the most elementary common sense. They're so inconsistent that they're born dead. They have no respect for macroeconomic reality, as demonstrated by the AIReF or the Banco de España. They are based on a completely unreal evolution of the pandemic. Raise the deficit not only annually, but structurally, and the public debt, which we will pay for generations of Spaniards. They tarnish the competitiveness of companies and are based on a populist tax reform which is only going to destroy more jobs in our country, and there is no employment in Spain, Minister, as if to undergo more destruction. In one year, Spanish companies have destroyed 850 000 jobs, 750 000 Spaniards are still in ERTE, we are walking towards the four million unemployed, the self-employed are suffering, farmers and farmers can't take it any longer, the hoteliers feel ill-treated by the government; let them ask the Navarra hotel, who closed it overnight without a government plan to help her. And all that, for what? To fry people's taxes, to hold in the armchair twenty-two ministers and ministers, who seemed to have little to have 666 hand-appointed cargoes, which have increased in another 76. It costs us 15.5 million euros for all the high offices of the government, and they are spending twice as much on advisers as Mr Rajoy's government did. That's what all the Spaniards are going to pay with their taxes. But we also cannot agree with these accounts because they are a punishment for Navarra. If I am generous with the government and I take Mr Rajoy's budget as a reference no longer, and then there would be no comparison possible because, of course, the figures are much lower, but that of 2019, his failed, the real investments fall to 20 million. You used to tell the Galicians how they can complain if they have a much higher per capita investment than the average. Well, shipwrecks are 1.4% of the population and we get 0.7% of this budget. How are you going to explain to the shipwrecks this disrespect they have for our land? We have been one of the communities most punished by the coronavirus and now we are also one of the worst treated by this Government. And we have vital needs. We have to make investments in health, education and social matters, but also, of course, to convert our industry, to bet on digital transformation, on our territorial cohesion, to make key infrastructures for the agri-food sector, such as the Navarra Canal, or key for our companies, such as the high-speed train. And just at the moment when we most need the Government of Spain to give us a hand, we find it turning its back on Navarra. And so far what. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, a budget is a country plan, it marks a horizon, it sets us a path towards that society that we want to build, and that is why it is very important not only what, but with whom. See this picture? [[Show a picture]] This is the picture of the infamy. This photo shows a government subjected to a political force whose members have been pushing terrorism for decades. [[Applauds]] This picture and what it represents is what you now call normal. They call normality to indecency, to ignominy. They call it normal not only not to respect democratic values, but to turn away from the trajectory of a party like yours, which has done so much for freedom and which so many victims have left on the road when the people who sit with you at this table applauded. This is your normality. And I've taken this picture not because it's the first time we've seen it, which, unfortunately, is not, nor because it's an ignominy, which, of course, is; I've taken it out because I think it reflects very well what these budgets are. These budgets are not good for Spain, because if they were good for Spain people like Bildu or Esquerra Republicana would not sit on the table. These budgets are a concern for the economic sector and for the European Union, because they know that reaching agreements with Esquerra Republicana or Bildu means less freedom and a weakening of the country's project. But above all, this photo shows the path you have decided to take. You have decided to flag radicality, to do a project for Spain from behind the Spanish, because you know that if you sit with these people most of the Spanish, that unlike you we do have scruples and we do have memory, we get up from that table. And so you don't make a better Spain, so you humiliate Spain and you make a country of trenches, which is exactly what you want with these budgets, from what you read to what you see. Therefore, the day you want to return to moderation, the day you want to make a country among all, the day you want to take advantage of the opportunity of at a time like this, from moderation and union, to weave strong pillars of the future, that day call us. In the meantime, they do well not to count on us, because we are not. And, of course, we will support the amendments as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u87	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that the budget law is the most important law of the year, and at least that is the case for the government. It is also said that without a budget, much time cannot be ruled. Although this is doubtful today, the result is already being seen in the political instability we have had in recent years. It's not what's happened in Cantabria since he's been running the RCP. The rejection of the budget bill has brought down many governments, and that is equivalent to the question of trust or even a motion of censure without an alternative candidate. And this comes to light because we just had a motion of censure a month ago and we've already seen the result. And that is the first reason why we have not tabled an amendment to the whole, because as a symbolic act we have had enough, and we should not waste any more time. Now is the time to be constructive. The second reason is that we have some accounts that are improveable, but that, together, are not bad at all. They are technically and politically complicated budgets, but the Government has also been fortunate to have significant additional resources. I know that, although they cannot shape the political agenda of the entire Government and represent what is essentially a budget law, it is the economic reflection in the practice of the political objectives of the governing parties. In this case, perhaps this is not so bad, but in the particular case of the PRC, as everyone knows, our main political objective, for what we are here, is to defend Cantabria's interests, and that is why one condition for these budgets to have our approval is to include the commitments approved and made with the majority party of the Government and the majority party of this House both here and in Cantabria. In this sense I must acknowledge that the script has been fulfilled. The main commitments are envisaged, especially Valdecilla. But we have also said that we have been disappointed because the small letter or the small number and the deadlines are very far from approaching the agreed, especially in our main claim, which is the Santander-Madrid train, and there are also road shortages that I am not going to report. But what we cannot admit, of course, is that the railway sections from Palencia to Alar del Rey are not in full operation in the year 2021. We cannot consent to it happening to us as in 2010, when, with the contracted works, not only stopped - as elsewhere, stopped - but never resumed. The contracts were suspended and now, ten years later, we are much worse than before, because we don't even have the projects auctioned. Madam Minister, you are committed to correcting these differences in the course of partial amendments and I have no doubt that you will, and we are counting on the majority support of the parties in this House. I believe that it will be very positive for the Government to comply with its commitments and to stop governing through decrees laws, because that will add a plus of legitimacy to all its actions. Our party wants to play an important role at this stage that is presented to us for the immediate future, and that is why we will demand reciprocity and loyalty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mr. Guitarte Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u90	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Spain has been emptied and, as a symbol, the province of Teruel, which I represent, urgently needs budgets focused on its recovery, and I must admit that we are disappointed and seriously concerned that the budget of the General Secretariat for the Demographic Challenge is only EUR 19 million, of which two are for the operation of the unit. It seems a small amount to be able to deal with the problem of depopulation, in contradiction with the pillars that the Government itself has defended. In order to move from words to facts, we would like to recall that on 24 June this House adopted a motion against depopulation containing a reactivation plan for depopulated areas with a set of measures to overcome this situation. We are told that the different ministries have cross-cutting lines that could face this challenge, but we believe that this requires clarification. We believe that this situation should be seen and given transparency, in order to know what is actually being done to revive the depopulated areas. We ask the Government to group them together and present them under the name that this Congress agreed and it is easy to measure, concretely and detect what amounts these General State Budgets allocate to correct the problem of depopulation in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, depopulation is the most serious situation a territory can reach. It is a much worse process than the low income level, much worse than the unemployment rate, much worse than deindustrialisation, and that is because it is the extreme consequence of all these earlier. However, the province of Teruel, for example, continues to be measured with criteria such as per capita GDP, which, as the specialists have shown, is only valid when there is economic growth, and this is not the case. As a great poet, who was our justice in Aragon, said, we have been trapped in the web of statistics, which makes us richer the more people we lose. We must remember that the only constitutional instrument for territorial rebalancing is the Interterritorial Compensation Fund and that this fund, in view of the need to establish a coherent cohesion policy with the European Community, introduced in 1990 the use of this harmful European parameter of per capita GDP to measure also the most disadvantaged autonomous communities. This parameter has kept us out of European funds such as Objective 1 and the Interterritorial Compensation Fund and has created continuous losses, repeated for decades. It was so obvious the injustice that we want to recall that the Inter-Territorial Compensation Fund itself in its preamble says that the problematic situation in Teruel province requires exceptional measures that cannot be taken in the context of the fund, and the Government expressly expresses its willingness to address them adequately because of their specificity in sufficient amount and as soon as possible. Well, we denounce here that successive governments have not compensated, after thirty years of deep discrimination and lack of attention, for a rampant depopulation. If we speak, for example, of the territories most affected by the depopulation that have so far been recognised even by the European Union, Soria and Teruel are at the same level as Lapland, Norway and Finland. Our only demand is that measures be taken already, absolutely necessary to tackle these problems and reverse them, because they are serious and permanent problems, and all this combined with the lack of communication, which makes them uncompetitive territories by being systematically separated from the plans of the Ministry of Development. If we want to be effective against depopulation, if we want these general budgets to straighten out the direction of territorial polarisation, let us deal economically with the problems on the basis of that gravity. But let's do it now. We've been waiting 30 years, and we can't wait any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u91	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u92	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group, after listening carefully to all the speeches, I would like to reiterate that what we are discussing here today is whether or not to deal with the general state budgets for the year 2021, and therefore we are not going to repeat issues that are more typical of an investiture debate, of a debate of the state of the nation than those envisaged for these public accounts. It is important to put this emphasis, because we need to look for a place that stands out in the debate in order to be able to discuss the priorities that arise in something as important as a draft budget, and therefore our will is for dialogue to enable us to reach consensus and to move forward in solutions that can be satisfactory for the groups with which we are establishing these amendments, the possibility that they will see the light throughout the process that is already under way today. I believe that most of the groups present here agree, and most of those who have spoken on the part of the Joint Group have reflected this, that this draft budget must be a dynamic element of the economy, an area of guarantee of rights, of equality of all citizens, and then there must be a legitimate territorial adaptation by each of the groups that allows the investment that takes place in the territory to contribute in the same way to the convergence of those areas that are in a lower per capita income than the Spanish average or that allow to compensate for some historical gaps that we have had according to the investments to the extent that it has not been achieved by previous governments. After listening carefully from my seat, I climb this rostrum with a double feeling. [[The lady]] On the one hand, I am proud of a democratic system that allows us to address in detail each of the singularities of our country, of our territories and, above all, of the citizens in an exercise in this House which seems to me very important to know the reality of what we are dealing with on a day-to-day basis. On the other hand, I want to tell you that I have a deep sense of responsibility and that the will of this Executive, my parliamentary group and the United Nations We can justly reach out to try the greatest possible consensus, being aware that we have to give in to some issues that can be raised in the public accounts and that we legitimately defend because we understand that they are more consistent with the integral parts. But I repeat what I said before to the Plural Group: it will not be for lack of debate, for lack of dialogue, that we will not be able to arrive at a good understanding that will preserve the essence of the tone, of the meaning of these public accounts, but that will also give each of your ladies and gentlemen greater comfort with regard to the explanations also in the territory. It is no excuse to defend these budgets, but I do want to tell you that we have been working very clearly since the pandemic broke out, since it appeared, in a whole planning that allowed, on the one hand, to sustain the welfare state from the very transfers that were made to the autonomous communities and, on the other, that on this occasion the adjustment that made our economic model, our productive fabric, would not be healed with sangria in our labour market, as has happened in other previous crises. I have to tell you that we were very aware of the magnitude of the economic and social impact of this situation. We have read very carefully all the figures pointed out by the national and international bodies regarding the sharp deterioration of public accounts and we have also been very aware that, as we were advancing in the control of the pandemic, the autonomic governments, with this formula of co-governance that I want to put here in value - some have labeled it throughout this debate of budgets to hide behind someone - have, I believe, probably had the most committed gesture in relation to Spain of autonomy, with co-governance, with the confidence in the autonomic presidents, of which we have recently had in recent years, in an alarm decree in which the delegated authority is placed in the autonomic presidents, and I believe - none has commented on it, but means - that it also emphasizes the concept of vertebration that this Government has on Spain, and how and how we can take advantage of all these potentialities so that each one can use the singularity that gives him knowledge of his space and his framework of competence cannot be able in the same way. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this has been a year in which we have made very important progress in guaranteeing our system of public benefits, in the formula that we have given ourselves in our Constitution to comply with the statutes of autonomy and with the constitutional inspiration itself, and that none of us can make it clear that we have been quite aware of the need to encourage, through the provision of ERTEs, the provision of self-employed persons, the moratorium on tax payments or the moratorium on the payment of contributions, the accompaniment so that companies can meet their payment commitments without harming a timely cash flow situation that they might have or a longer-distance situation that we are, as I say, undertaking, with all the ministerial departments to make it possible. First of all, I would like to be able to clarify some of the questions that have been raised to me by each of the speakers who have come up to this rostrum to defend the amendment as a whole or to fix their positions, in case they want to reconsider their vote in turn. I would also like to tell you that you have to explain your no to accounts, those of greater social spending, those of greater investment in history, collaborative accounts whose design is in the defense of the territories, in the equal opportunities and also in social justice. To the second group, those who have set their position by allowing these budgets to continue their processing, I thank them for their position closer to dialogue, understanding, and for their defence of these accounts, which are not those of the Government but of the citizens as a whole. Mrs Vehí, from CUP - I think she is the first to speak in the rostrum -, the first thing that has surprised me of her speech is that they say in the text of her amendment to the bill that wealth is not redistributed in this budget or that it does not serve to transform inequalities or that the increase in investment is due to the future debt issue or to the advantage provided by European funds. It seems to me that these are obvious, but I do not quite understand what are the issues that you are particularly concerned about and whether you prefer that this budget should not be expansive, if you would have preferred that this budget would not have had more debt or that it would not have had European funds and we would have had a regular budget for an extraordinary moment. It seems to me that the approach you have advocated in the rostrum is somewhat incoherent. I understand that if you claim to be left-wing, you cannot be contradictory when, at a time of health crisis and resulting economic crisis, we apply an anti-cyclical policy that allows for the protection of people and the boost of economic growth and equal opportunities. Therefore, I would like to remind you that there is nothing else to pursue this budget but precisely that, the redistribution of wealth, the fight against inequality and the progress in the progressive nature of our tax system. Enough? Probably not, but step forward in that direction? No doubt I do. For example, these budgets allocate €3 billion for minimum living income; a measure that is the largest in advance of social rights since the adoption of the Dependency Act. It is a proposal that aims to reach 850 000 households, of which 16% are single parents. It is also a measure of economic efficiency, as well as of social justice, and that is taken seriously, as one of the foundations of democracy, precisely that redistribution of wealth. As far as fiscal measures seem to him poor, few or insufficient and are not up to date, I believe that we have made progress and must be able to accompany this moment to economic growth and to accompany our companies, which do not live in a good situation with regard to the international situation and, therefore, to advance in taxes that pursue a fairer, more progressive taxation, but also a green taxation, typical of the twenty-first century, also digital and dissuasive of conduct habits that may be unfavorable. I was really surprised by the reference that you made to us being cowards or not daring to mess with some set of companies. I don't know if you've seen what you're thinking about deducting dividends from subsidiaries. This mainly affects large groups, large companies. You have not made a reference to this, and I think it is extremely important that progress is being made on this issue. Your Honor, when I heard you, you reminded me of VOX's right-handed coward, but with left-handed coward. It has sounded to me to that same music in which you think that another does not adopt certain behaviors because he does not dare. They do not respect that, in our thinking, in our ideological line that guides us and sets out our actions, we may be working in an environment that you do not participate in or that you do not share a hundred percent, but I do not believe that this government can be accused of this. You may be accused of everything, but precisely this I believe is unfair, Mrs Vehi. Similarly, these budgets are social, realistic, progressive and future, and their commitment to Catalonia is extraordinarily clear. As I said earlier to someone who has intervened in other political formation, in terms of investment in infrastructure, strengthening spending to improve public services, or you have not read the draft budgets or you have been wrong in this debate, but certainly the public accounts contribute and to an extraordinary, probably unprecedented, measure that we will not have again and that is raised in a cross-cutting way in the draft budgets. In fact, they meet social expenditure: 10% more than the previous one, i.e. 239 765 million. The same applies to the entire share of investment expenditure. In short, Your Honor, it seems to me that they are large enough to be taken into account. These are budgets, I insist, which contain sufficient reasons for the whole set of political formations to be able to support them and, therefore, it seems to me that there is no reason, Mrs Vehi, to reject these public accounts. You are saying no to the improvements that arise for your autonomous community: more than EUR 2 billion in investment that, if it were for you, would not go to Catalonia. If it were because of the position that the CUP holds here today, we would return to Mr Montoro's budgets. There would be no such 2 billion investment for Catalonia or the possibility of benefiting from the policy of dependence, the policy of scholarships, the updates of the deliveries on account, a direct transfer to the Government of the Generalitat so as not to worsen its public accounts - as for the rest of the autonomous communities - the completion of the sentence in the first annuality of 200 million euros so that some grievances that occurred in the past, and specifically this one corresponding to the year 2008. If you see the budget honestly, I think you can say without any doubt that they are clearly committed by your autonomous community and that they are also good budgets for Catalonia in terms of economic growth, investment, social protection and also compliance with its status of autonomy. I have to tell you that it seems to me a little contradictory on the part of your group that you are systematically voting with the right of this country; I have to tell you, Mrs Vehi, it seems absolutely contradictory to me. To you who are trying - how would I tell you? - to make a left-wing advance to this progressive government we always find you frequenting the same people and the same political groups. I think you have to think about it, something must not be working very well when you vote continuously with VOX and the People's Party, unless you are looking like them for the polarization of politics, so being permanently in a crisis or in a political debate that leads to nothing. Believe me, I would like you to reflect on this issue because in politics, above all, the citizens want us to be useful, to be useful, to be useful to contribute and to move forward, it is not just a question of being vindictive or of being a claimant of some issues that seem legitimate to me, it is a question of being useful and when you can move forward, push forward, not directly separate, differentiate yourself and stand by those who challenge so many of the issues that you demand for Catalonia. But you always vote with them, I don't know how you deal with them, in the end we find you voting with those you consider to be enemies of Catalonia. Think if there's nothing in there that's not working quite well. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I am going to address you now because it is the next one to present the amendment as a whole. I don't find any difference between your speech and that of the People's Party, you'll know. You say that here there is a part of the Chamber that is being held by hand; I do not understand very well whether you are not being aware of the efforts that this government has to make in order to be able to carry out its legislative initiatives, I think it can be because it is seen every day that we come to this House. But of what I have no doubt is that who is caught by the hand of VOX is you; you have indeed taken hold of the hand of VOX and from there does not let go, and all the speech that they do you repeat, with greater or lesser intonation, but you repeat it. I understand that I should also reconsider whether you really cannot make a specific contribution to improving this budget for Asturias and whether you really do not have to move some amendments to allow an improvement in relation to Asturias to be incorporated into this budget. Because at the moment the budget represents a very significant increase in employment policies, in investment, in vocational training, in the youth employment shock plan, in public employment services. These are better figures than the previous budget. It will certainly never be enough, but to disregard a 75% increase in health, to disregard a 70% increase in education or social services, seems to us to be a political attitude that we certainly cannot share. But in addition, Your Honor, of this general data you point out in your amendment to the whole that these budgets in particular are an aggravation for Asturias, for your land. I do not consider you a nationalist group, I do not know if you should consider it; I do not consider it, but you make a speech that looks like, like two egg whites. You look very much like other groups in the rostrum who come out here demanding for their land a nationalism that in your case - so you tell me you don't - does not seem to inspire your political formation. But I think that, if Spain is doing better, Asturias is going to do better and, of course, these public accounts allow Asturias to continue to improve. There is 26.8% more investment in this budget than in 2019: €393.1 million. Do you find that contemptible, Mr. Martínez Oblanca? Real investment has been the highest for Asturias since 2014. You have always supported the draft budgets of the People's Party, and now you do not support this one which has a much more important investment for Asturias than the one you supported with other draft budgets and is trying to make this House understand that it is doing so out of loyalty to Asturias. I do not think so, that it should do so for another reason, but, of course, not out of loyalty to Asturias, because it would not be understood that you would have supported the budgets for the years following 2014 and yet this one, which has the greatest investment since that year, now does not count on the approval of Forum Asturias and, therefore, the vote of your Member. I believe that you are accommodated in the no, it is the only political formation that voted against the suspension of fiscal rules, something that no one in this House understood, I don't know if you want us to be much stricter with the autonomous communities or to ask for a plan to rebalance the municipalities and thus not be able to meet the demands that arise in each of the territories. You voted not to increase the expenditure on self-government and today you are going to vote not to have more than 300 000 Asturians benefit from the revaluation of pensions, to have the autonomous community improve in dependence as the departure is increased by 600 million, to have Asturian families who meet the requirements access to the fellowships or to have an increase in the scholarship with an estimated 35 million euros in their community, which will benefit some 14,500 more citizens of their own community. You can afford to say no to all of this. Well, believe me, Mr. Martínez Oblanca, I really don't understand. Frankly, you should also rethink the meaning of your vote. It's your decision. You're voting with the CUP or the CUP is voting with you, I think you'll have to explain it later. It is certainly a good budget for Asturias and, if you do not vote for it, it is precisely because they have an unwavering alliance with VOX and the People's Party and not because these public accounts do not allow for progress in the well-being of their autonomous community and also in investment. Mrs Oramas, I have intended to call you Mrs Clavijo and to refer to you as Mrs Clavijo because the debate I am doing and you have not referred to me at any time and at all times you have referred to what you call Mr Sánchez absent. I think it would be disrespectful to refer to you also as absent Mr Clavijo. I'm telling you because I think we have to respect those of us who come up to this rostrum. If I am the one who brings the debate forward, I would ask you, Mrs Oramas, to discuss it with me. [[Applauds]] Because Mr. Sanchez can't answer it. Mrs Oramas, we need more dialogue, we need to do it responsibly, we need to understand that we need to pretend to be fair and equitable. You have applied a number of such thick adjectives in your intervention... You have called us indecent with the Canaries, to the members of this government. Mr President, it seems to me that we have to banish these kinds of issues from the political debate and, above all, in political formations which are understood not to be radical unless we are confused. Listening to those kind of adjectives of formations that are on the extremes because well, we have to listen to it in this House, we don't like it, but this is what there is. But, listen to you, Mrs Oramas, that you have made an extraordinarily harsh intervention in qualifying adjectives? I'm telling you, I've taken note of some of them: assault, indecency... It seems to me that they do not correspond to their parliamentary style, nor do I think they correspond to the tone of the debate that we are trying to achieve in this speech. I agree that the budgets can be improved, I respect that, and I share that in certain matters during the procedure each of the groups intends to add, I share and understand it, I believe it is the expression of this parliamentary arc. Obviously, for me the public accounts in their entirety are good accounts, but from the beginning of my speech this morning I have said that, of course, they are accounts that can be improved. In the case of the Canary Islands, it is clear to me that these accounts correspond to the interests raised by the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands. In fact, I would say to you, Your Honor, do you really believe that this budget is a frontal attack on the Canary Islands, as the amendment says to the whole? Do you really think so? Do you think that this budget, which respects to a great extent the rules relating to the financing of the Canary Islands, is worse than the budget that Mr Montoro presented, which you intend to resurrect? As you can see, Mr Montoro's budget is in the light of the amounts raised in this budget. If you want to resurrect it, it will be by ideological adherence, but certainly not because the amounts of the figures are not worthy of you at least to make a positive assessment on this issue. Is it a frontal attack on the Canary Islands that per capita investment in the Canary Islands is 67% above average? Your Honor, 67% above the average, and you say that the investment there is for the Canary Islands is indecent. This budget covers the peculiarities of the Canary Islands' insularity, which in many cases articulates capital transfers rather than direct investments. I can tell you that by transfers of capital the Canary Islands receives from the State 262.76 million euros - not counting the element of transport, directly from the State to the Canary Islands - so that infrastructure can be carried out, investments developed or free movement with the Peninsula by residents of the Canary Islands. In air it increases its investment in the canary airports by 45 million - this did not exist in the budgets of Montoro - and is located at 154 million. I challenge you, Your Honor, to look at it, it did not exist, it increases by 54 million more. Therefore, it seems to me that these are figures which cannot be considered negligible or dispatched without taking them into account. SEPI increased its investments in the Canary Islands by 14%; it was not in Montoro's budget either. Canary Islands will receive subsidies for maritime and air transport amounting to EUR 558 million, 41% more than in Montoro's budgets. Do you also think this amount is despicable? Is this the unrecognized insularity you claimed? The budgets for 2021 give the Canary Islands a volume of resources of 6996 million euros, of which 1235 correspond to the total investment and amount to 173 million more than we had planned in the 2019 budget. Therefore, we are improving, Your Honor, we are able to put more resources into budget items that are extraordinarily important: 243 million of the amount of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism that has previously been pre-assigned, as well as the whole of the autonomous communities for environmental matter or housing policy, as I have been disengaging throughout my intervention; more resources to meet the demands of the citizens; 48 million for urban and metropolitan transport; comprehensive employment plans in the Canary Islands with 42 million; 200 million of the road agreement; 15 million in supplementary aid for agriculture and livestock; 8 million for aid for agricultural use and 8.5 million for the rehabilitation of drinking water; 20 million for the agreement on the rehabilitation of infrastructure and equipment in tourist areas. And I can go on, Mrs. Oramas. What can be improved? It is certainly possible to improve, and Mr Quevedo has already said, that he was going to table some amendments to improve this draft budget. But really, after describing in a dramatic way - because it is - the situation in the Canary Islands, can you afford to say no to all these investments that will allow you to regain employment, boost growth and protect people on the islands after the situation you are suffering from as a result of the pandemic, Mrs Oramas? You'll have to explain, because this is better than there was. And since it is better than there was, you will have to explain why you are not going to support today that this draft budgets are being processed and that you can table the amendments that you consider appropriate. He even said it was a crime for the Canary Islands. I believe that reliving Mr Montoro's budgets - using his own expression - is a crime for the Canary Islands, Mrs Oramas. It is a crime not to incorporate these games that are so necessary for the islands. Mr Quevedo, on the contrary, I would like to thank you for the tone of your speech, all the suggestions that have also inspired the preparation of the public accounts themselves not only in relation to your political strength but also to the Government in which you participate, which has been very attentive to all the budgetary preparation. I just made a statement about how good this budget is for the Canary Islands. I insist, many of the games are inspired by the very conversations we have had before. They are good budgets, but I can share that they are not perfect and surely there is some item - I remember the one you have commented on, that of poverty, with some EUR 25 million - that should be included in the draft budgets and, therefore, I am sure that we will agree on this within the framework of the amendments. What I can tell you is that from the Ministry of Finance we have worked with great interest to ensure that the premises of the REF were fulfilled, that the autonomous status of the Canary Islands was fulfilled and, finally, that the agenda that we also had the opportunity to agree on was reflected on the occasion of the investment agreement so that the situation of an ultraperipheral region such as the Canary Islands at this time of the pandemic - although fortunately it is not living so intensely the contagions, but, of course, its dependence on tourism as an important element in its wealth - makes us all reflect and know that we have to have special protection with the Canary Islands and with the Balearic Islands, which are the two territories of Spain most affected by the fall in GDP because of the non-arrival of the travellers. [[of something had to benefit from being an island]] As I said, I would like to express to you my full willingness to be able to reach an agreement that corrects those elements to which you referred, and I can tell you, Your Honor, that we will continue to work together to make possible that reality of increasing the level of income, the standard of living and, ultimately, the guarantee of rights and freedoms on the islands themselves. Mr Guitarte, once again I thank you for your position in favour of the budgets. I particularly appreciate your understanding that these accounts need the participation of all. I therefore also say to you that in the course of the amendments we will have an opportunity to discuss some of the issues that you have commented on. I think they are realistic accounts, exceptional for the times we live in. You said that the budget programme that has to do with the demographic challenge is a programme endowed with a quantity, but that it cannot aspire to be the programme that encompasses all the measures that are being proposed to combat depopulation. We have taken a step forward, which is precisely to create the new programme so that it can be monitored and monitored, but it is obvious that this programme in the future, which currently envisages 11 million for transfers to autonomous communities and 6 million for local entities, will at least have to be linked with other budget items that are distributed in the territory and that because of the subject matter they are incorporated into the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Inclusion and Social Security. I would like to remind you once again that we are firmly committed to the demographic challenge and depopulation in our country. In fact, already in these accounts some of the commitments we have acquired in the field of roads have been transferred: there are actions in the A-68 for 47,1 million euros and also 12,6 for the variant of Alcorisa in the N-211. There are also commitments in the area of rail transport, so we will devote €73.6 million to the cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor, which is certainly also important for this issue, and will be distributed among the provinces of Castellón, Teruel and Zaragoza. There is a million euros for the Center of Physical Studies of the Cosmos of Aragon and 100,000 euros for the Unit of Paleontology of Dinosaurs in this province. These are issues that, although not directly represented by your person, I know you like to know, as well as what are actually the subjects that we are reviving, demonstrating so that we can continue to make progress on such important issues. The programme on rural development includes very specific items aimed at establishing a population in the territory, mainly the installation of young people and women in these environments, aid for rural women's entities, aid for rural women's business projects or actions for young people in the rural environment, which are sure to enable municipalities that may be affected by this issue to benefit. As far as agriculture is concerned, in a sustainable and respectful way, there is a generation of added value in some of its policies, which also aim to fix the population in the territory, promoting social or territorial cohesion. Specifically in 2021 these items will have EUR 61 million, of which 57 will be devoted to investments. I believe that this will also allow us to continue to develop very specific and concrete actions that will enable us to improve. I can tell you the same about the irrigation programme of the State Agricultural Infrastructure Society or in the field of vocational training and employment, where you know that we have incorporated a section of transfers to local authorities to modulate the offer of the catalogue of professional qualifications in areas at risk of depopulation. In particular, territorial and social cohesion is endowed with EUR 12.25 million, and it is very directed to the municipalities in the environment to which we referred earlier. The same applies to the revitalization of trade in rural areas. EUR 5 million is earmarked for these items. The restructuring of coal mining will also be carried out by the new Institute for the Just Transition. It is endowed with 285 million euros to implement these policies. We will also launch fair transition agreements with energy transition zones, an environmental restoration plan for closed, thermal or nuclear mining operations, which are also in a similar situation, for an amount of EUR 90 million. And it is expected that at least 300 business projects will be launched in all areas affected by the just transition, which we believe will generate at least 1500 new jobs and 6000 of those that currently exist will be maintained. Mr Guitarte, you also proposed the system of aid to companies located in unpopulated areas. He knows that we are working together with the Government of Aragon on the first draft of the new Aid Framework 20222027. It has been an element that we have had the opportunity to discuss with your political formation here and also in the Senate. We therefore continue to do so and to do so. And I end up telling him that politics is coming to change things. That is why I am grateful for the institutional loyalty of your group and for the desire for dialogue, and I am convinced that, after the period of amendments, the policies of depopulation and demographic challenge will benefit from an increase in the agreements that we can also reach with your group on this matter. Mr. Sayas, are you here? Yes - I will not answer the speech you made in this rostrum out of respect for this House. [[Rumors]] I think you've exceeded any line you can cross. You have used insult, disqualification and superlative adjectives. I think you want to develop your own profile within this House. You want to be the most radical of all the Members of this House. I have to tell you, when you speak in this rostrum, it is discouraging to listen to you. I don't know if that's what you're trying to do, but if you're trying to do it, you get it for all of us who are gathered here. It's discouraging. [[Protests by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u93	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u94	Mr. Sayas can probably defend himself. You don't have to be defended by the ladies and gentlemen of VOX. He can defend himself. [[Applauds]] I was quite surprised by your tone, your positioning and your lack of empathy so that I could enter into even a minimum dialogue, even though you have already decided what your final vote is. Therefore, Your Honor, I am going to address the shipwrecks. I am going to address all those in this autonomous community who have also put their trust in this budget. These budgets allocate EUR 100 million to Navarre, a figure which includes a real investment of EUR 88 million, 54 % higher than that of Mr Montoro's budgets. That is to say, those who defend Navarre prefer to stay at 88 million euros less than to support budgets that really allow us to move forward. There are 8,5 million euros for the financing of the railway services declared public service obligation in Navarre, 9,5 million euros for the works of the Water Pact, and 1,63 million euros for the actions of companies. There are also 62 million euros that will be allocated ADIF for investments in actions of the network called TEN-T. It is also important to highlight the more than EUR 18 million of European funds earmarked for the rehabilitation of residential environments or public buildings, with which 9127 households will benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the budgets are therefore good for Navarra and I hope that, regardless of the vote of the UPN group, they can continue their processing, because they are certainly good news for this autonomous community. Mr Mazón, I am grateful for your tone today, that you have described these budgets as realistic, that you have done an exercise in pragmatism with regard to the specific issues on which you believe that the budget needs to be improved. It is precisely that dialogue that you demanded in one of your interviews where we have the capacity to generate an expectation about a particular game, and the dialogue allows us to land it and complete it, which is where the ultimate essence of this Congress of Deputies lies. I am therefore grateful that you have assessed the budgets from a global perspective, although you have also focused on the concrete implementation of some items of particular importance to your autonomous community. I would like to thank your group for being aware of the exceptional time our country is going through, the opportunities provided by the draft budgets to protect workers, businesses or vulnerable groups. I have to tell you that in Cantabria the set of departures is realized in more than 148 500 pensioners who will see their pension revalued, more than 8700 students who will be able to access a scholarship, about 6 million euros that we will allocate to the Plan of Shock for Youth Employment or the more than 2600 paternity permits that can be enjoyed in the year 2021, matched with the maternity permits. Obviously, when we talk about investment items, they are very important amounts, 233 million euros for investments in Cantabria, 7.5% more than what existed in Mr Montoro's draft budgets, and 3% more than we brought to this House in 2019. The accounts collect historical demands of his community, such as the hospital of Valdecilla, 44 million euros, and improvements of other infrastructures, such as the A-67, in which we allocate 40 million to give continuity and expand the capacity of the Sierrapando-Barreda link, 9 million euros for access to the port of Santander or 40 million euros that Ports of the State will allocate to the port of Santander and the gorge of La Hermida. All these questions which you have also referred to us before the draft budgets are dealt with, some of which are in the programme agreement and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing from the point of view of fixing the amount in these budgets. I know of other aspirations that you have verbally expressed by your group, such as the works of the AVE - you said in particular - between Palencia and Reinosa, and I would like to say that you have our hand extended, Mr Mazón, so that in the processing of the draft budgets we can find or agree on that amendment that you raised on this issue or on any other issue that will allow us to finally accept this draft budgets and to vote in favour of it. We will continue to make as favorable an interpretation as possible of the financing of the Autonomous Communities, as you have also asked us on different occasions. We have made a first major effort with the Recovery Mechanism, where we must continue to make progress in the co-governance of these European funds, with an amount of €70 million targeting environmental and housing policies, beyond the items that the ministries have not yet decentralized in the territories. I believe that this is a first step towards enabling us to boost economic growth in the year 2021, which is key for our economy to be able to rebound. I therefore thank you, Mr Mazón, for your assessment of this draft budget, which seems to me to be extremely sensitive in assessing the effort we are making as a country to allow no one to stand behind. At other times we do not agree with the approaches that we may have, but on this occasion, which is not just any one, but is probably one of the most important, I think we can show that the whole or partiality of the projects that this Government is promoting will be shared, but when the accounts are objectively good and necessary for our country you are always there, with your legitimate claims, to support this country's further progress. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group, by saying that, indeed, and after all the speeches, it must be made clear that these are times of dialogue and consensus. I assure you that we have drawn up these public accounts seeking the greatest possible benefit for all the citizens of Spain. I ask you, with all humility, to support them to overcome this debate to the full and, above all, to be a useful tool to enable us to push our country into one of the most dramatic situations that we have experienced in our modern history, in our recent history. I hope that, thanks to these budgets, this health-related economic crisis will be shorter, that our public services will be revitalized, better protected and, ultimately, that the fair investments that can be made in the territory will be made from the beginning of trust, social cohesion, territorial cohesion and social justice, to which all of you aspire, at least so you have transferred it from this rostrum and in your interventions. They will find the Government working on this. I am convinced that in the process of amendments we will give satisfaction, in that dialogue game that we have to do, to some of the issues that have been raised. In the end, the budget has to be coherent, but some specific items can certainly be improved. I would like to express my absolute willingness to the honourable Members who have tabled amendments to me in full to improve these public accounts in their respective territories. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-11-11-CD201111.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was nine and fifteen minutes of the night.
