ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u2	Mr Sánchez, says Felipe González that his government looks like the Marx brothers' cabin. Perhaps that's why your partners want to humiliate you by investigating you here in this House. I'll tell you, I'm against it, for the respect I do have for you. But, look who you owe the presidency to. On the one hand, to Churches, which said that a constituent process had to be started to open the lock of 78, sic. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your hands]] On the other hand, Junqueras, who from prison again makes him sit at a table for self-determination. And to your shame, Otegi too, who, while justifying terrorism, agrees with you the future of the workers. Perhaps that is why the Minister of Justice dared here to say that the Constitution is in question. Do you think that your radical management has opened up a constituent crisis in Spain, as Mr Campo said? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. I thought you were coming to reach out to the government to reach agreement, Mr Casado, and we are in the same position as usual. You ask about the management and the consequences of the management of the Government of Spain in relation to the pandemic and I will answer you. Look, and not only from the management of the Government of Spain, I would say that all public institutions and, above all, social actors - employers and trade unions - and the Spanish citizens have achieved many things during these three months of pandemic. Firstly, we have avoided the destruction of millions of jobs and also of businesses; here are the ERTEs. Secondly, we have attended the most vulnerable groups; there, for example, is the minimum living income as a key to the vault. And, above all and above all, Your Honor, with the state of alarm and confinement we have saved thousands and thousands of lives, 450 000 lives have been saved in our country as a result of confinement and the state of alarm. [[Applauds]] It is true, Your Honor, that we are not all, we are not all, and therefore, days from raising the state of alarm, after three long months of pandemic, I want to make the following announcement. The next 16th of July will be the State ceremony in honour of the 27 000 compatriots who have lost their lives and also in tribute to those public servants who have been on the front line fighting the pandemic during these three months of COVID. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, on 16 July. On 16 July, logically, we hope to have the presence of all the parliamentary forces, we hope also to have the presence of the highest representatives of the public institutions and also logically will be presided over by his majesty the king and will have the presence of the President of the European Council, the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Parliament, the High Representative of the European Union and also the Director-General of the World Health Organization. And I would like to record in the Journal of Sessions the gratitude for the empathy of these high dignitaries who will be present on July 16 in tribute, tribute and memory to the victims of the COVID. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u5	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u6	Mr. Sanchez, I wasn't asking you about that, and there are 43 000 victims. In any case, let's talk about that because no one in the world doubts that its management has been a failure and that is why we have the worst numbers of dead, infected and unemployed, but at least not attacking democratic institutions. Look, comparisons are hateful. For example, in Italy, the Prime Minister appears before a court to be accountable for his management. In France, the prosecution is acting on its own initiative in front of the Government. In Finland, they stop a person responsible for making a failed purchase of masks. Or, without going any further, in Chile, the Minister of Health ceases to change the count of the deceased. What do you do? He criticizes judges, puts a police station as a prosecutor, hides 16,000 victims and purifies police officials who ask for more means and masks. Nevertheless, I have been holding his hand for months to agree on a Cajal health pact, a legal framework for possible setbacks without having to return to the state of alarm, a national office of victims of the COVID, an economic shock plan to reduce taxes and bureaucracy, to extend the ERTE until the end of the year, to create employment, so that closures such as those of Alcoa or Nissan are not repeated and a commission with autonomy of municipalities, but not like the one you insinuated yesterday in the Senate to revise other years, but this management, and to coordinate well social aid, measures such as minimum income, which we did support you last week despite your attacks. [[rumors]] You see, Mr. Sanchez, the rift that sells your propaganda is nothing more than the echo of no. The confrontation you denounce bears the mark of your health cord. The division that imputed us is the shadow of his own government. The only anti-patriots here are the partners who made him president. Don't look for false culprits. The only one responsible is you. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Two do not fight if one does not want, Your Honor, and I will not enter into any of the provocations you pour into your interventions. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Two also do not agree if one does not want and therefore, Your Honor, I urge you to do the same as I said last week: if you want unity, here is the Government; if you want the scorn, there is the far right. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU KEEP THE GOVERNMENT THAT WE ARE MORE OUT OF THIS CRISIS? [[File number 180/00209]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u9	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u10	Good morning, Mr. Sanchez. Do you keep us coming out stronger? Could you tell us if you have any kind of objective data to support it or if we are faced with the empty propaganda that your advisors recommend again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm sorry to say that this is the same question Mr. Married asked me last week. It is usually customary for you to make your way and the PP will then follow your line, but on this occasion I regret to say that it was Mr. Married who came forward with this question. It is therefore true that the wording of the question is not original, I already answered it last week and therefore my answer is not going to be original either, it is going to be the same one I gave to Mr Casado. Look, we can come out stronger, of course, if we raise a response to the crisis that has to be from unity and social justice. It is clear that unity with you is frankly difficult, if not impossible - there are the results of the votes - and what about social justice, Mr Abascal, if you have been the only group that has not voted in favour of minimum living income. With this, Your Honor, I regret not to be original, but I think we can come out stronger with unity and social justice, which is what this government is doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u13	Mr. Abascal Count.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. I too, like you, am used to not being original, but in my case it is because I always maintain the same principles; in yours it is because you do not know what to say in this House. Obviously, we cannot go out any stronger as long as you and Mr. Iglesias remain in the government because you have only brought ruin, division to the Spaniards and abuse the democratic institutions of the Spaniards. Forty-eight thousand dead, but in addition to that we have been ruined: record in unemployment figures, record in ERTE victims, record in ERTE victims who have not charged anything since the month of March, record in autonomous without any kind of income from which the quotas were collected, record in the kilometre queues of the social eaters, record in the escape of deposits from Spain for fear of its vice president - 22 billion euros -, and there is a record that I do not notice but forecast: record in the effect called illegal immigration for the minimum income that you have approved. [[Rumors.-Protests]] But, as you do not conform to the ruin, ladies and gentlemen, you bring us the division, the already classic division by sex between men and women, which you systematically promote; now you also bring us the division by neighbourhoods and it seems that you also bring us the division by age, because not all lives matter, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] That is what it seems, given that there have been no respirators for people of a certain age and that 18,000 elderly people have died in residences, Mr. Iglesias. Moreover, in the middle of the pandemic, we have been brought by confrontation, sectarianism and division on behalf of the Crown, ladies and gentlemen, because you want to run over any kind of democratic institution that faces or limits your will for unlimited power. That's why you want a party prosecutor's office, that's why you want an attorney's office from the government and not from the state, that's why you want judges with advanced quality labels, that's why you want a Civil Guard and a police who are not at the service of the citizens, but who are watching criticisms of the government and who are at the service of the nomenclature and their mansions. And that is why you attack the Crown, which is an institution that cannot be defended. You should defend her, but, of course, the vice president attacks her and the president is silent. [[Rumors]] I see that I scandalize your ladies and gentlemen very much, I announce that I will continue to do so throughout the legislature. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, finally, you and Mr Casado do the same speeches, follow the same script, you finally publish the same book, although you, you have to admit, do it with a hard cover. [[Rumors]] That's clear, Your Honor. But, look, your question is whether we're going to get stronger or not. And I tell you that we can come out stronger; we can come out stronger if we give a positive, sustainable, inclusive response to this crisis. This is what the Spanish Government is doing, it is proposing a transformation of our economy, it is proposing a transformation, for example, in the field of climate change. I already know that this science matter to you three peppers, but science says that there is a climate emergency that needs to be answered. We must also bet on science and we must bet on R+D+i, we must bet on strengthening the welfare state. We will therefore have to put forward a review of our tax system, as the Government has put forward, and of course they have put forward many other political forces throughout these last legislatures. There will also have to be a modernisation of our education system. Here, too, there will be a debate on the law on the modernization of our education system, proposed by the Government of Spain. We are going to tackle the strengthening of vocational training, the strengthening of digitisation, in short, all the issues that are being adopted by the Council of Ministers after the Council of Ministers by this Government. I understand you don't like it. You are the ones who proposed in the election campaign, for example, the privatization of the public pension system. [[Rumors.-A lady MP: No, no!]] Your economic spokesman said that the problem of the upper classes of this country was that they paid a lot of taxes, Mr Abascal. Of course, it is that between what you defend and what we defend there is, in terms of simile, water and oil. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u17	Thank you, Mr President of the Government. - OF MR CARLOS GARCIA ADANERO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES YOU THINK THE GOVERNMENT HAS APPROACHED TO THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00214]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u18	Question by Mr Carlos García Adanero, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, do you think you have the most appropriate government for the economic and social reconstruction of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u20	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u21	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You use the proper, appropriate term. He asked whether we had the proper, appropriate Government. Anyway, I think it's kind of the same thing. I will tell you that yes, I think we have the right government for this crisis. Look at what we have done only in a quarter; for example, on the health front, thanks to the state of alarm and confinement, we have saved 450,000 lives. On the economic front, we have avoided the destruction of millions of jobs and also of millions of companies with ICO lines and also with temporary employment regulation dossiers. On the social front, we have helped the most vulnerable; there is the minimum living income, as I told the spokesman for the People's Party before. And on the institutional front, yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, we approved a non-refundable fund; for the first time the state is indebted to the autonomous communities for 16 billion euros, and 70% of that fund goes to public health and public education, Your Honor. And all this in just three months, Your Honor. Therefore, yes, I believe that we have the right Government to respond to this crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u22	Sir, García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u23	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, if you are responsible for saving 450 000 lives for confining us, are you also responsible for not confining us to two weeks and for all the deaths there have been? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] I also wanted to say that, with thousands and thousands of dead, with thousands and thousands of citizens who have lost their jobs, does the party that governs Spain devote its time to drawing portraits of the majesty of King Juan Carlos from the institutions? Is that what time is devoted to? Look, King Juan Carlos has done a great job in Spain with regard to freedoms and democracy. But the goal is not King Juan Carlos, the goal is the Head of State as a symbol of the unity of Spain. [[Applauds]] The part of the extreme left government has called into question the automotive sector in Spain, have called into question the tourism sector in Spain, have called into question the Spanish entrepreneurship, which are three fundamental pillars for national reconstruction. Without these pillars, Spain cannot be rebuilt; the extreme left of the Government has called them into question when they are the ones that generate employment. In addition, their parliamentary support is three political parties - the Republican Left of Catalonia, Euskal Herria Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party - which have as their political objective the weakness of Spain as a nation. Would it not be more logical for you to look at what is being done in Europe? Would it not be more logical, as is the case in Europe, for the extreme left not to be in government? Would it not be more logical, as is the case in Europe, where the independenceists do not support the governments, to seek agreements that affect the whole of Spanish society, the vast majority, with the parties that believe in Spain as a community of all united? Wouldn't it be more logical, in short, to pay more attention to the Business Forum than to the circles of Podemos? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u24	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I was already afraid, Your Honor, that you would not agree very much with this government. He made it clear, by the way, in the investiture. Neither before nor after this pandemic have you considered this government appropriate; this is the issue. But I imagine, since you are talking about Navarre, that you will find the funds that we have allocated during these three months to Navarre: EUR 4.52 million from the Extraordinary Social Fund and EUR 4.78 million from the Health Contingency Fund. In addition, thanks to the Government's efforts, Navarre will be able to reprogramme €19.24 million of unexecuted European funds. And the Automotive Plan that we presented the other day, which logically has a lot to do with Navarra, involves 3750 million euros. Therefore, Your Honor, this is a government that is responding adequately and in accordance with the gravity of the social, economic and health crisis. But, of course, you are talking about whether or not there is an appropriate Government, and this is not only the responsibility of the Government, but also the responsibility of the opposition. After listening to you, Your Honor, I wonder if Spain has the right opposition at the moment we are suffering. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Cayetana ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT DO I RESPECT THE PARLIAMENT FOR? [[File number 180/000217]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u26	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo Peralta-Ramos of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Madam Vice-President, this is a summary of our debates in this House. I asked him about his silence in the face of the separatist challenge; he endorsed the answer to the Minister of Agriculture. I asked him on the negotiating table with Torra; he did not come to Congress to be at the table. I asked him about his responsibility in preventing the pandemic; he told me that the problem was my mental framework. I asked him if he condemned the slave to Mr. Iglesias; he replied that I have the right to become infected. I asked him about respect for the institutions; he suggested that Mr. Casado is a coup player. I asked him to clarify such a serious accusation; he invited me to have coffee. Last Friday I sent him a letter accepting his invitation and proposing a coffee/public debate. Where's the answer? Let me see if I have more luck today and you respect your word and Parliament. Answer me, please: Are you going to convene another negotiating table with the separatists in July? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u27	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, once again the honourable Member skips the Rules of Procedure and changes the question, but I will accept it. You asked me if I had any respect for Parliament. As a Member of this House - who I am - and as a member of the Government, everything, absolutely everything; as a socialist Democrat, everything and more. That was your question and this is my answer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u29	Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: For the sake of respect for Parliament, I have been talking to you about the democratic debate, and you have a double problem with Parliament. You express the democratic conversation and you also express national sovereignty. Today you are going to vote against a motion by my group claiming the exclusive right of these Courts to decide the common thing. At the first table - the self-determination table - self-determination was dealt with, and you personally blamed the Constitutional Court for what they used to call political conflict and now directly constituent crises. Tell me what words you use and I'll tell you what you mean. Mrs Calvo, we are not facing a constituent crisis, we are facing an ideological and moral crisis of socialism. Patriotism, do you ask? Mr. Sánchez has no other homeland than his ego. You have signed an ultra pact at the expense of coexistence and in exchange for power. Listen to the damned Junqueras for a moment. They ask, "Would you do it again?" Answer: Yes, thanks to what we did we have earned the right to repeat it. They insist: But did you not deceive the Catalans? And he answers - forgive me -: And shit, and shit, we told the truth, that the process has to end in independence. But the delirium does not end there: the spokesman of the Generality, in the midst of the pandemic: In an independent Catalonia there would not have been so many dead. From 'Spain steals us' to 'Spain kills us'. These are your partners, thanks to them you are government and you intend to remain so. At what price, Mrs. Calvo? Please tell us: are you going to convene the table demanded by Esquerra? And, by the way, do you intend to reserve a place for Citizens in it? The nation looks forward to your response. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u30	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, I respect you so much because you have a seat for Barcelona, for Catalonia. It would be one of the great obligations that you would have here, to find through democratic dialogue a way out of the situation in Catalonia. Yes, we will convene the dialogue table, because it is the only way to find a way out in our constitutional framework and with the democratic formula so exotic that it is to recognize the other, who does not think like you. But, look, you've done here today a subjective script of your control activity in relation to me. You asked me if I was going to further degenerate the institutions; you asked me if I had a commitment to the truth; you asked me if I have respect for Parliament. Those questions - I imagine you are aware - are not questions of control useful for the citizens, because we speak from here, but we speak for the citizens of this country; that is a question in every rule of the existence of this Government, of the behaviour of this Government. You respect the pact of this Government, you respect the investiture session of this Government. Because, look, when I answer you and you don't like it, you feel that you offend Parliament. You are Parliament in that personalistic and absolute view of the debate that you have with me. I invited him to a cafe like two normal women, and I am. You offered me a circus, but I have debates here, with cameras, stenographers and all of Spain looking at us. [[Applauds]] You take out the 155 seats held by this Government from that kind of disrespect that you feel when I disagree with you. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs ISABEL POZUETA FERNANDEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS THE SEMINAR VICE-President FIRST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WILL THE GOVERNMENT APPROVE A LAW FOR REVOCATION OF RECOGNIMENTS AND CONDITIONS TO OFFICERS OR AUTHORITIES CONCERNING HUMAN RIGHTS? [[File number 180/00212]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u32	Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u33	Madam Vice-President, last week a PSOE and United Nations GNP was approved in this House. We can withdraw the decorations to the Francoist authorities which, in addition to being totally inadequate and a clear face washing, does not oblige the government to anything, because it simply has declarative validity. In addition, you have agreed this GNP with the orange wing of the Columbus trio, this trio which seems to be outraged every time you take steps in favor of historical and democratic memory. That is why I ask you: will the Government pass a law that withdraws recognitions and decorations from all authorities that have had actions contrary to human rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u34	Madam Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pozueta, we do not start from scratch, we start from Law 52/2007, from a socialist government, which has already come late to the recognition and memory of the dignity of these victims and of the absolutely nefarious memory of our Civil War, of the exile and suffering of all of them. This Government has proposed a substantive amendment to that law, in which we will try to make reparation, as you proposed, for the award of decorations and recognitions of those who have been absolutely outside the protection of human rights in their actions. No doubt about it. It will be through the reform of that law or through a preliminary draft that it will review the two laws establishing decorations to those who cannot and should not have them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u36	Mrs. Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u37	Mrs Calvo, this government has made a commitment to democracy and respect for historical and democratic memory, but it is still not doing so. This State still maintains the recognitions and decorations to officials and authorities who have committed human rights violations, whether Francois or not; I speak to Billy el Niño or Martín Villa, accused of their responsibilities in the commission of important crimes, such as the death of Germán in the Sanfermines of 1978, the massacre of 3 March in Gasteiz, the black week of Madrid, the case of Escala or Rodríguez Galindo, general of the Intxaurrondo headquarters where so many human rights violations occurred and which has more than thirty decorations and recognitions, or of the lord equis of the GAL, who has now been named and surnamed by the CIA. I also speak to him about the more than 4000 cases of torture committed by the Security Forces, documented and verified by the Basque Government to which his party is a party. All this remains in absolute impunity. Mrs Calvo, I am Navarra and, thanks to the enormous work of the memorialist associations, there is a great deal of awareness for the historical memory; a broad social and political consensus wants the Government to give concrete expression to an attitude that approaches the truth, justice and reparation as axes of restorative justice. For this reason, it is urgent to have a law that removes these decorations and recognitions from all officials and authorities who have committed human rights violations in all historical periods: during Francoism, the so-called Transition and the constitutional era. Share this democratic need courageously and fairly...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pozueta, have no doubt about this government's commitment to democratic memory. We are the only important democracy in the world that has yet to disappear. Our commitment is also to their families, to the recovery of the dignity and protection of their own family members, who are officially missing in our country. Moreover, on the road to the reform of Law 52/2007, which is raised in a legislature that is barely five months old, with the important stop that unfortunately we have had to live by fighting the pandemic, or through a preliminary draft amending the two laws that affect the system of decorations, we will do so. Moreover, we will propose that the recognition that Billy the Child had in life should also disappear post mortem. We will also do so that even that memory cannot continue to be maintained. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WILL THE SECOND SECOND SECOND TYPE OF RESPONSIBILITY ASSOCIATE TO THE RESULTS OF HIS POLICIES DURING THE CRISIS OF COVID? [[File number 180/000218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u40	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iglesias, in politics you do not ask for forgiveness, you resign. This I do not say; this you said. It is true that it was before plugging his friends into a revolving door or forgetting those who suffer, and here we have today the new Paul Churches. I ask you, Mr Vice-President, has it been worth burying all your principles for sitting there? Humanly, I understand that you want to distance yourself as much as possible from this government and its disastrous management, but all of you as a government assumed sole command in March. The management is yours and the responsibility for managing this crisis, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we need concrete answers and, without any chryspation, I ask you: how many Spaniards have died in our country victims of the coronavirus? Because Mr Sánchez says those who have saved, and those who have saved, thanks to the decisions of the autonomous governments of the People's Party, are despite the government; despite this government. [[Rumors]] If you don't even know who's dead, how will you know who's saved? Mr. Iglesias, what kind of responsibility do you have for your political action during the management of this crisis? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u42	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u43	All responsibility, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u44	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u45	If you assume all responsibility, you should reflect on what you previously asked for for others for the sacrifice of a dog, which now does not ask for the infamous management that has occurred in this unfortunate crisis that has taken thousands of Spaniards ahead. [[Applauds]] Mr. Iglesias, stop insulting people who have been on the front line working against the coronavirus. Tell Minister Garzón to stop insulting tourism by saying it has little added value. Mr Garzón, tourism entrepreneurs, who create thousands of jobs, have little added value? And Mr. Garzón, who has not created a job in his life, what added value does he bring? I also ask the Minister of Labour not to insult calling farmers slaves, because farmers get up before you and the Minister of Labour so that there is food on the table for all Spaniards. And you stop insulting the Civil Guard, because when you have problems you don't call Torra, Rufian or the CDR, you call the Civil Guard, whose members give their lives to protect you. One thing is clear: the elderly cannot rely on this Government or on you. They called their number two and didn't pick up the phone, while thousands of older people died from the coronavirus. Look at your mobile, because you also have missed calls and for many people it's late. What a journey! You have moved from the indignant to the plugged, from the circles to the armchair, from politicizing the pain to the CNI. You have become, Mr. Iglesias, the monarchy of Mr. Sánchez. But Moncloa is well worth a mass, isn't it, Mr. Churches? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u46	Thank you, Mr. García Aegean. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u47	I liked that you ended up with an appointment from Enrique de Bourbon, the Huguenot who said 'Paris is well worth a mass'. Philip II, more quixotesque, said: I prefer to lose two thousand states than to rule over heretics. I do not know very well what position you are in, but the quotations magnify your parliamentary speech, Mr García Aegean. Look, Your Honor, I have the feeling that the constant provocation, the taunt, the bad education, respond to a very sad reality in our country and that it is a problem for democracy, and that is that you do not accept to lose, you believe in Spanish democracy if you govern. If you do not rule, you are capable of anything so as to try to regain the power you understand to be yours by divine right. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something: there is something very important about what is now being discussed for the future of Spain and is being discussed in Europe. It turns out that we have to find out that you are working with your friends from the extreme right of the Netherlands, Austria and Denmark so that the European authorities try to condition the help to Spain to make cuts to public services. Do you know what that is called, Your Honor? Treason to Spain. You will be able to get involved in hundreds of flags, but who conspires in Europe to make cuts here, to make here again the barbarities that you have made, have only one denomination, and that the citizens know perfectly well. You must recognize democratic procedures, be a worthy opposition, make proposals, stop provoking, stop insulting, stop squeezing. If they do, they will have the stretched hand of this Government. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GIVEN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC MATTERS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT ECONOMIC PROVISION DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE FOR THIS YEAR AND THE FOLLOWING? [[File number 180/00210]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u48	Question addressed to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u49	Thank you, Madam President. The impact of coronavirus on the economy will be insignificant, transitory; appropriate measures are being taken; we are very surprised that someone believes that the Spanish package of measures is not important. Madam Minister, this is what you meant by the Spanish economy at the beginning of the crisis and the economic closure to which your Government has subjected us. We already know that with the minister's kit the crystal ball does not come to predict the future, but I am very afraid that these optimistic predictions were the ones that motivated the government's response, clearly inadequate. Spain needed a strong and agile response to keep our businesses and jobs alive, in addition to our lives, but it was insufficient, of the lowest in measures across Europe as a percentage of gross domestic product; it was also terribly ineffective. The delay in aid has aggravated the crisis, as shown by the chaos in the ERTE and the exasperating slowness in the granting of ICO loans. A few weeks later, we have the OECD to put us at the head of the global economic collapse. We are leading the destruction of employment; we have destroyed three times more jobs than in Italy, five times more than in France and ten times more than the euro area average. The destruction of businesses has devastated the productive fabric, as we have unfortunately predicted here three months ago. And today we have the number of companies at its lowest level of the whole century. It is a pity that they did not listen to us at the beginning of the crisis and did not implement the measures we asked them to do, and that they would certainly have alleviated the effects of the crisis, as has happened in other countries where they have implemented them. Because the wrong predictions lead to the wrong policies. That is why I ask you today, Minister, what economic forecasts the government has for this year and those that are coming.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u50	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u51	Thank you, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, as I said at the outset, we are in an environment of extreme uncertainty and, therefore, it is particularly difficult to make economic forecasts. The Government knows them well, since they became public: we foresee an intense fall in activity this year, a recovery from the second part and an intense growth next year. This situation of uncertainty makes it more important than ever to follow the daily indicators closely, and what we see is a change in trend from the end of hibernation; a change in trend that is manifesting itself in different indicators, among which I think the most relevant is that of job creation. Right now there are more than a million workers who have already left the ERTE, there are almost three hundred thousand new members of Social Security on behalf of others. The indicators, therefore, show us that change in trend and that the recovery phase has already begun. However, recovery does not depend only on what we do from now on; recovery depends on what we have done since the first day of the pandemic, when we have already launched a first package of economic and social measures that has been accompanied week after week by a set of tremendously important and tremendously effective measures, as is being demonstrated by the protection of our productive fabric, the protection of our employment and, therefore, the protection of a sufficient basis to be able to have that robust, inclusive and sustainable recovery that we all want. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u52	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u53	Madam Minister, I would like these forecasts to be met. We have every wish for the Spanish economy to recover as soon as possible and to start generating employment, but the way we are going does not seem to be that and, in part, it is because of measures being taken by this same Government, such as when from your Government you are attacking the tourism sector, as Mr Garzón did, or when from your Government Mrs Ribera is attacking the automotive sector and the parts and components sector. Yes, Mrs Ribera, you attacked him frontally. And every time you talk bad about diesel, you're talking bad about Europe's first diesel producer, which turns out to be Spain. Every time you speak badly of industry, every time you speak badly of our entire productive sector, you are undoing the productive fabric that has so much cost us creating. When the primary sector is attacked and it is allowed to be said that they are slaves, only tourism, the car and the agricultural sector are one third of Spain's gross domestic product. So, we're not on the right track. When the vice president attacks fashion and says that Mr Amancio Ortega is a terrorist - that said Pablo Iglesias - these are not the right messages for an economic recovery of Spain, rather the opposite. Let's go down the road to start... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u54	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u55	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I am surprised by what you point out because we have not only taken effective measures for the whole economy, such as the ICO's public endorsement programmes. Just yesterday we launched the last tranche of 15.5 billion, with a specific part reserved for the tourism sector with 25 billion and for the transport sector with 500 million euros. We are talking about very significant figures and a programme that is one of the most effective in the European Union. But not only have we taken horizontal measures, but this week we have presented a strategic plan with all the representatives of the automotive sector that has been very positively valued, and tomorrow we will present a programme of support to the tourism sector, which has already benefited from more than EUR 12 billion, only taking into account the ICO's endorsements and the support of ERTs. That is to say, if this Government is not committed to the protection of our industry, our productive fabric and the tractor sectors of our economy, if this is not the case, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I really do not know what we are talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAQÍN MARÍA GARCÍA DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH MINISTRY FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT ACTING WITH TRANSPARENCY CONSIDER IN THE PROCESS OF AMENDMENT OF THE COSTS LAW? [[File number 180/00220]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u56	Question addressed to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Joaquín María García Díez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u57	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, when in February - you will remember - I was interested in this very matter you called me an alarmist and told me that you wanted to act on the basis of dialogue, listening, transparency. That's what he said, but what did he do? He deceived us all, because what he did was to introduce a climate change law introducing an article, the 18, that throws down all that the Coast Law affects the regulation and the granting of those facilities that are in coastal or maritime-terrestrial territory. That's what you've done, fooling us all. Is this your concept of transparency and dialogue? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u58	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u59	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I do not know exactly what you are referring to, because Article 18 of the climate change bill that you will be discussing shortly, I understand, ladies and gentlemen, what you do is to introduce the precautions of science, the alarms of climate change in the protection of something as precious to our economy and our well-being as the coast, and it is absolutely transparent: it has been subjected to public information, it has been tested by the Government and it has been referred to this Parliament for discussion; on a subject, indeed, in which there is a great chaos generated around that Coast Law that you pushed in 2013 and the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional to a great extent. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u60	Mr. García Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u61	Minister, don't go back to the chaos and the Constitutional Court. I have already clarified it here: you did not like the law, you took it to that court and you did not give reason. Don't come back with those arguments you said yesterday in the Senate. That is a lie; chaos has generated it by the change of approach of this Government in the application of that law. That is what is generating not only chaos, but uncertainty in many companies that cannot now make investments and can be caught up in closure. It's the third time you've tried to make a change of this kind in a year, and always from behind and always by surprise, and on this occasion much more serious, much less ethical, in full state of alarm. This is it. In Galicia, this improvisation is generating more than 40,000 jobs in this maritime agri-food sector to be engaged in a very uncertain, very uncertain future; more than a thousand companies are affected by this regulation. And you, every time you give a green brush from your ministry, which reaches many other departments, what generates are real earthquakes. Here the diesel has been quoted; I quote some of my province, Lugo. These cracks are causing earthquakes in Lugo province, authentic earthquakes in Endesa, Alcoa and now all over the coast. Does your government tell us about reconstruction? In Portugal, which is a socialist government - like others that Mr. Iglesias has quoted indicating that they were of the extreme right, that he reviews Wikipedia - facilities are given; here they are put obstacles. If you really want to solve this issue and put an end to this uncertainty, remove Article 18 from the climate change law, feel the sector dialogue without threats on the table and we will resolve it. Because lies are not forgiven, mistakes are forgiven, lies are not. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u62	Thank you, Mr. García Díez. Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u63	Your Honor, I understand that the proximity of the Galician elections to the Mayan prophecy associated with climate change is an enormously stimulating thing. It happens to me a little like my colleague, Vice-President Calviño; it is a little peculiar to hear so many accumulated lies and not stick to the facts; a ruling of the Constitutional Court with regard to a law that you pushed without any scientific backing, on the contrary, ignoring all the warnings of the Aeval, ignoring all the warnings of the IPCC, ignoring the limitations of the Constitution, to the point that you had to incorporate into an additional provision an important limitation, and it is that this possibility of extending concessions in the maritime-terrestrial public domain should be accompanied by a strategy of adapting the coast to climate change. A strategy that we are applying in a chaos in which we have to integrate responses into a law that has been absolutely dismembered. It is also striking that of more than a thousand companies; on the contrary, we have identified twenty food companies on the Galician coast, with which, by the way, we are working quietly, they will have all their roles ordered, even if some did not request in time the extension of that concession, but we understand that it is perfectly compatible as long as they introduce the corresponding precautions. And we still have an important task ahead of us, which is to try to appease that black hole that we have been left with a correct compliance with the Coasts Act and the Coasts Regulations. A space that will allow us to take advantage of the blue economy in all its dimensions, both the food sector and that offshore wind working capacity from which, by the way, Galicia and, in particular Ferrol, are greatly benefited... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u64	Thank you, Madam Vice President. - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DO YOU CONSIDER THAT YOU STILL KEEP THE CONFIDENCE OF CIVIL GUARDY? [[File number 180/00211]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u65	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you consider that you still have the confidence of the Civil Guard in you?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u67	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. If something characterizes - and I think you know it well - and defines the 176 years of history of the Civil Guard are the principles of professionalism, loyalty to the State and political neutrality. To insinuate, as you do in the statement of your question, that the Civil Guard has to give confidence to the Government, I would say that it is a lack of respect for that history and tradition that define the Civil Guard Corps. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u69	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, those founding principles are precisely what you are trying to liquidate. You've betrayed the Civil Guard trying to humiliate her. You are trying to impose arbitrariness and submission on the Civil Guard. And that sectarian conduct, completely outside of the foundational principles, responds to a goal because you, with the illegal cessation of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, have begun the assault on the Civil Guard, as you have done before with other State institutions, in that quest to energize the rule of law and the separation of powers, as a previous step to liquidate the Constitution, abolish the monarchy and impose a regime change, which is the constituent crisis announced here last week by the Minister of Justice. That is why you need another Civil Guard, different from that of your founding principles. That's why Vice President Iglesias talks about demilitarizing the Civil Guard, which is the real goal of Podemos. And you, the government, have put forward a spurious criterion of political confidence on respect for the scale and career at the time of designating the provision of the scale of command. And that is why you are also exercising a sectarian policy of sanctions to those agents that you consider to be defective, simply by participating in concentrations demanding your wage rights or for tasks as dangerous to the security of the State as becoming a selfi with Mrs Olona. And that is why you too, Minister, shut up and accept when Puemite government ministers accuse the Civil Guard of beating sails or their partners in Bildu and Esquerra of torture. And that is also why, in the end, Minister, you are constantly giving improper orders such as spying on networks to minimize the climate contrary to government management or imposing on guards to identify citizens who legitimately exercise their right to protest, and so many others. Look, you're not going to be able to make the Civil Guard a Bolivian-cut political police, as Mr. Iglesias would like, nor are you going to be able to get the Civil Guard to break its commitment to exclusive service to the law and the Spanish from the strictest party independence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Gil Lázaro, I will tell you something obvious: you are not the spokesman of the Civil Guard, you are a deputy of VOX, which is a party - I remind you - of the extreme right. [[Applauds]] Neither you nor the members of your parliamentary group have the right to speak on behalf of a whole body; moreover, I ask you as Minister of the Interior to stop doing so. The Civil Guard is loyal to the rule of law; loyalty that assumed that a ruler of this country - a dictator whom you even refuse to condemn when you do not publicly admire - I would like to dissolve it - I remember - because it remained loyal to democratically constituted power. The Civil Guard is political neutrality, which is what gives confidence to society as a whole and is objectivity; by the way, three values that are far from their parliamentary group. I will tell you that as you continue to ask and try to reopen completely sterile polemics that are not going anywhere, we will continue to work for the Security Forces and Corpses. We will continue to work on creating 12 000 new places that were lost in the seven years of government of the People's Party, we will continue to generate the necessary infrastructures with the plan of more than 600 million euros for the years 2019-2025, and defending their values, their principles of neutrality, objectivity and professionalism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARTA ROSIC I SALTOR, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT MEASURES MUST BE TAKEN TO AVOID RACISM IN THE FIELD OF SECURITY? [[File number 180/00215]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u73	Question by Mrs Marta Rosique i Saltor of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u74	Lucrecia Pérez, Ilias Tahiri, Mmame Mbaye, Idrissa Diallo, the fifteen people in El Tarajal or the people killed in the Mediterranean are victims of racism and murderous xenophobia in the United States and also in Europe and the Spanish State. However, murders are a visible part of structural racism that is everywhere, even in us. Behind these deaths we find thousands of unjustified arrests on the subway, thousands of hot returns, incarcerations in the CIEs, racial identifications recognized even by the UN rapporteur, xenophobic laws and institutional attitudes that treat migrants and their children as if they were criminals rather than people. Yes, I think there is institutional racism, and deleting this idea from the Journal of Sessions makes it invisible and perpetuates it as long as one cannot combat what does not exist. Also, of course, thousands of racist comments, obstacles to finding a job or to finding a rental apartment and, as always, those who suffer these discriminations are the most precarious. In the Parliament of Catalonia, aware that racist actions exist, we present a study commission to analyse racism in the field of public and private security, because a police officer who is racist, with a fucking and a law that protects him, obviously turns out to be a little more dangerous than others. Now, with the proposed intention of defending the human rights of all people, have the origin they have, we ask the Government: does the Spanish Government consider that measures should be taken to prevent racism in the field of security?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u75	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rosique. First of all, I would ask you to avoid generalizations in relation to the State Security Forces and Corpses in Spain, in an approved State of law. If anything defines these Security Forces and Bodies, it is their professionalism to guarantee to citizens the free exercise of our rights and freedoms and, as I have said before, with the principles of neutrality, professionalism and equal treatment. But above all, to generalize - I am sorry to tell you, Your Honor - in my way of seeing, implies a concrete lack of knowledge. I would like to point out to you that, with regard to the prohibition of discrimination, as early as 1981 there was a ministerial order addressed to the State Security Forces and Bodies. The prohibition of discrimination is contained in article 20 of the Organic Law 2/1986 on Security Forces and Bodies; also in the Code of Ethics because, for example, the National Police has an ethical code and in the fifth paragraph of its decalogue prohibits it; and also in the Organic Law 11/2007 on the Rights and Duties of the Civil Guard. It is therefore part of the acquis of the State Security Forces and Bodies to guarantee, of course, the rights and freedoms and the prohibition or prohibition of any discrimination, and it is also part of their cross-cutting training in the academies and of the ongoing training that is being developed. I don't know if you know him, but we have an Office for Combating Hate Crimes in the Ministry of the Interior, in which National Police and Civil Guard officials carry out exemplary work in the fight against hate speech as pre-eminence of crime and actually do so working with the third sector. You can ask me if you can do anything else and I tell you that of course you can, can and should do much more. As long as there are acts of discrimination, of discrimination on the street, of discrimination even on some institutional occasions - although I say it is somewhat anecdotal - we must continue to work. We must continue to work on the formation of the State Security Forces and Bodies, on the training of deputies, on the training of senators, on the training of teachers, on the training of students, on creating values, on creating what we all call public ethics. None of us saved ourselves from that possibility of continuing to form, of continuing to build, and for that we are. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u77	Mrs. Rosique i Saltor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u78	Just as macho violence could not be faced until we recognize that there is a patriarchal and macho system, we cannot face racist violence until we recognize that there is a racist system that protects it. Minister, I'm not accusing you of being solely responsible for institutional racism, I'm asking you to recognize... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique i Saltor. - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT RESPONSIBILITIES DOES THE GOVERNMENT TAKE AT THE START OF THE NEXT SCHOOL COURSE? [[File number 180/000219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u80	Questions to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u81	Thank you, President. Minister, on March 10, Madrid, La Rioja and Álava took the initiative and their regional governments suspended classes to stop the spread of COVID-19. On 12 March, the same measure was adopted throughout Spain for ten million students and, overnight, Spanish families and the entire educational community had to face an unprecedented situation: moving to non-face-to-face education, a challenge. Minister, where were you? Mrs Celaá, what responsibility does the Government assume for the beginning of the next course? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u82	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Absolutely all those attributed to us by the current legal system, especially those of cooperation, collaboration and constitutional loyalty, as all the ministries of education in this country have been doing for a little over forty years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u84	Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u85	Madam Minister, what is clear is that you ratify the lack of leadership and decision-making, two subjects that have not been presented in this course and in which you expect a general approval that is not going to happen. Madam Minister, the Spaniards hoped that, after the suspension of classes in Italy, the Minister of Education of Spain was planning the measures to be taken in our country, but no. You were in something else, in your own personal project, in your ego, in passing before the state of alarm, on March 13, a law bearing your name. Nothing could stop his ideological road map, not a pandemic. Its third trimester is of inaction, of occurrences and rectifications, of a return to the school at the end of the course to the fractional return and from there to an absolutely face-to-face already in September. It reminds us of Mr. Illa's masks; they were not necessary and now we cannot go without them. It creates more uncertainties than certainties, constantly modifies its measures, it is a burden for public education, say the educational agents of its management. You've marked your own safety distance. For you the competence is of the sole command, the Minister of Health, and for the Minister of Health, of the Autonomous Communities. And in the meantime, too many children do not have access to the Internet or can receive the same help from their parents; more digital and social divide, and you have done nothing for them. Now, Mrs. Celaá, the children are from the parents, aren't they? And, by the way, what was your proposal for reinforcement activities in the summer? And by the turn in September it has up to nine autonomous communities and only knows how to threaten them with 'they will be failing the law'. Loyalty you call that? We think that there will be no rebounds, it seems that the children do not infect so much or I do not think that we will finish the course in this situation. They're dubious scientific evidence. Park your pride, flaunt and give solutions, that families, students and teachers... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gamarra, you don't follow education. Mrs. Gamarra, don't you know that we have held fifteen meetings - meetings - with all the autonomous communities? Don't you know that we have worked at four sectoral conferences? Do you not know that all the autonomous communities - also yours, ladies and gentlemen - have agreed on the measures that this Ministry of Education and Vocational Training has proposed in competition that it has attributed to the Government of the nation? Don't you know? Do you not know that this government has responded to the crisis caused by the pandemic, by the disease, precisely with a response that is in the antipodes of which you have given during the previous seven years, that is to say, with EUR 2 billion in response to needs? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Hey, more investment in education! Who has written you that contribution that you have intended to make here, saying that we have done nothing for digitisation? Have you missed the latest news? Where were you yesterday? Where have you been the previous days, when we have been identifying all the students who were disconnected by the autonomous communities, working together in coordination and collaboration, as is the case with an autonomous state? Where were you yesterday when we announced and approved in the Council of Ministers an agreement with the Ministry of Economic Affairs through Networks and with the Autonomous Communities, which amounts to 260 million euros? Where were you when we raised the scholarships by 22%, up to EUR 19 billion? Who gives a shit, ma'am? Who gives more? [[Applauds]] And I'll tell you more. We have worked hard and there is no right for you to say this - because you are also attacking the autonomous communities that have worked with this ministry - in the autonomous state, in this autonomous state in which we believe and you do not seem to be. Please review your adherence to the 1978 Constitution... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHAT MEASURES DO YOU HAVE TO IMPLEMENT YOUR MINISTERY, IN COLLABORATION WITH THE REST OF THE GOVERNMENT, TO GUARANTEE THE FAMILY CONCILIATION, INCLUDING THE PROFESSIONAL PROPERTY, IF FINALLY IT IS IMPOSSIBLE THAT ALL THE Alumnus COME BACK TO THE COLEGIES THE NEXT COURSE? [[File number 180/00213]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u89	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés from the Citizen Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u90	Mrs Celaá, does the Government intend to present a serious and orderly plan to return to classes in September, a plan that is valid for all of Spain and that gives students and their families the peace and security they need for the next course? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u91	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Bal. The Ministry of Education and Vocational Training last week proposed to the Autonomous Communities a solid and well-planned agreement of fourteen points which was supported by fifteen of the 17 Autonomous Communities. Two of the main points, the first and the second, refer to their concern, stating that the 2020-2021 course will start in September - like all the other courses - with a specificity, which will be the observance of the requirements of health measures to provide families, pupils and teachers with a safe school environment and whose general principle will be the presenceality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u93	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u94	Mrs Celaá, the government has made many mistakes in managing this crisis, but in the area of education the word may not be error, but chaos. Millions of families have had to be confined to their children at home. Millions of children have lost their classes and digital education has not worked. Parents have had to be teachers, have had to take care of their work and even have had to take care of others who were in a situation of health or economic crisis. There has not been, there is not and I ask you whether there will be effective policies for reconciling work and family life, because distance education has not worked; and it has not worked because you, who have been in government for two years, have not invested anything to overcome the digital divide that makes citizens of first and second - in this case, children and young people of first and second - and that precisely affects the most disadvantaged. In this dramatic situation in which we find ourselves, you propose to abolish special education when it is most lacking for families. Not to mention selectivity, which remains an unequal test in the national territory imposed by bipartisanism and nationalism. Regarding the return to the classrooms in September, you give bandages, throw balloons probe and finally tell the autonomous communities to get as busy as they can. You don't give them enough money for backup plans or to have more classrooms or to pay the salary of more teachers, not even to buy sanitary and hygienic products. In Andalusia we have approved a reinforcement plan that has the international backing of Save the Children. What is important is the Education Act of the PSOE, a law without consensus of the educational community, a law without consensus of the groups of Parliament and not even of the Sectoral Conference of Education, and that which we extend to you, but you want to continue in unilaterality. Do you have a plan for access to classrooms in the event of a rebound? Do you have at least one conciliation plan? Or is your plan still chaos? We need that plan, we need it for the children, we need it for the future of our country and we need that there is not a law of education of a party, but of all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. I'd ask one at a time. If we talk about the law, we talk about the law. If we talk about the response to the pandemic, let's talk about it. Or mushrooms or Rolex, they say in my country. Let's do that, please. The school is a driving force for knowledge, it compensates for inequalities of origin and, in addition, it performs a function that is usually attributed to it by society, as it is to reconcile the exercise of work and family life, but this is not unique to the school. The school itself is knowledge. But look, we have organized a well-planned, strong 2020-2021 course, with observance of health measures, because we have to protect the student, who is the main repository of knowledge, we have to protect professionals and we have to protect families. Therefore, the security distance that is legal is already to be observed today because it is in a royal decree-law. We must observe ventilation measures, safety measures and obviously prevent any resurgence, so that we can perimeter those groups in which it has occurred without having to close the school. But we have done more, we have contributed EUR 2 billion, EUR 2 billion, I don't know if we have any idea what that means; EUR 2 billion is...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT CONCEPT CANADELL SALVIA, IN SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE DEPARTMENTAL FERRAN BEL ACCENSE, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLETE THE GOVERNMENT'S COMMITMENT TO DEROGATE THE LAW OF REASONALIZATION AND SUSTAINABLEITY OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATION? [[File number 180/00222]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u98	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mrs Concep Cañadell Salvia from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Law 27/2013 on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration amended the Local Regulatory Law on Local Regime Basis. The adoption of the law entailed the invasion and reduction of the powers of local self-government, more restrictions for municipalities, limitation of decision-making and their capacity to provide services to citizens. The municipalities so far were understood as autonomous local administrations and the new law relegated them to managers. Most of the municipalities of Catalonia and also of Spain, many of them militants of their party, minister, mayors and mayors, on behalf of the municipalities that presided over and representing the millions of citizens, brought before the Constitutional Court the LRSAL in defense of local autonomy. You promised the repeal of that law. They've been ruling for two years, and for the time being, the repeal isn't coming. Is it in your plans to carry out the repeal? If the answer is yes, when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u100	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Cañadell, in answer to your question, I will tell you that it is a priority objective and an objective of this government's legislature to adopt a new regulation that allows the municipalities to recover the local autonomy lost and also that allows them to increase the capacity to collect their own taxes and to have the resources in this case derived from the participation in the income of the appropriate State. It is therefore a priority for this Government to proceed with a new regulation which answers the question you have raised and which is already part of the programmatic agreement of the forces that make up this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u102	Mrs. Cañadell.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u103	Madam Minister, your arguments seem very good to me, but, as I told you before, two years ago your party was ruling. During this time they have brought to this House more than fifty royal decree-laws, but not the repeal of the LRSAL, a law that many of us know is a severe blow to local autonomy. I say this as a deputy, but also as mayor of a small village in the region of La Noguera, where the local administrations are vertices, we are the vertebral lung of the municipalities and we are the engine of the generation of progress in the territory. In short, we are the administrations closest to the citizens, which give answers to any problem. During the COVID pandemic, we have given an example of all this. I take the opportunity to ask the Government once again to approve once again the use of the remnants of treasury, they are vital in order to be able to give answers, activate social policies and economic reactivation so necessary for the future of our peoples. As I said before, the law was a severe blow to local autonomy, but you have also said, it was approved by this House in December 2018. Minister, why do you not comply with what this House has approved? The mayor of Vigo, Abel Caballero, representing the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, requests that they approve the repeal of the law and states that it is placing the municipalities in an emergency situation. Minister, for the benefit of local autonomy... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Cañadell. Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, on 13 January he is a minister, along with the rest of the government, we take office; I repeat, 13 January. On 12 February, I held a meeting with the President of the FEMP, Mr. Knight, and we are already working on this amendment, for this new regulation, as I like to say, which will replace the LRSAL. The EMFF has already set up working groups to address within it a proposal that could serve as a basis for such a change. By the way, this Government and this minister, apart from what I have just commented on, have a previous work, which was drawn up by my predecessor on this matter, and so we do not start from scratch. Your Honor, for the Socialist Party, to which I belong, local autonomy is a sign of identity. The LRSAL was widely discussed and was also widely appealed, and my party was the first, as you said, with our mayors at the front, who opposed this rule. There is no doubt, therefore, that this Government's commitment is to proceed with the adoption of the new legislation. I hope, however, that when we bring her in, we will have the consensus of her group, because so far she has not joined any consensus. This text will be done with the participation of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and parliamentary groups, as it cannot be otherwise, and I believe that it is widely shared by the municipalities, by the mayors of this country. I invite you, when that text is mature, to reach broad agreement. I hope that your group, for once and without precedent, will join the consensus and not criticism and harassment and defeat. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - of Mrs Carmen Riolobos Regadera, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister of Consumer Affairs: Do you maintain your commitment to protect young people against gambling? [[File number 180/00221]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u106	Question to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. Question by Mrs Carmen Riolobos Regadera, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u107	I give the floor to the question.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u108	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u109	Thank you, Madam President. As the question arises as to whether we are concerned about the situation of the game, I would like to ask Mrs Riolobos that we share her concern, and we are glad that the People's Party is interested in the problem of gambling. As you well know, in less than a month since we took possession we have presented a real decree to regulate the advertising of this type of games, which involve a significant risk to the health of certain population sectors. And during the state of alarm that publicity has been totally forbidden. It should be remembered that this has been done within a month, which contrasts with the seven years of the People's Party government in which there was no regulation, which makes it the law of the jungle right now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u110	Mrs. Riolobos Regadera.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u111	I'm watching quite a lot of football these days or, at least, I've got it on and I tend when my kids leave me. There is advertising of bets on the rest, on the t-shirts and, in general, where you look. What remained of the Government's measures to protect us from that bombardment? Signed: Ramón Spinar. On Twitter yesterday. Mr. Garzón, you betrayed the young people. He promised to protect them from ludopathy, but he has yielded to external pressures and failed to keep his promises. There is advertising of the game in youthful hours and even in soup. You copied much of the real publicity decree of the People's Party game, generated great expectations, and it was criticized for insufficient, disappointing and because it left teenagers at risk. Mr Garzón, meet your obligation and protect the most vulnerable. In the midst of an unusual economic crisis, it has tried to damage the reputation of tourism, a leading sector at the international level. The eighty-four million tourists who spent 92 billion and generated three million jobs have left him for a liar. The Bureau of Tourism has requested his resignation. You've offended the police and the Civil Guard. And in El Mundo's recent interview, which is an expression of absolute conceptual chaos, it drives away companies and investors that generate jobs, threatening nationalizations and rising taxes. It shows a lack of management experience. It continues to be installed in the ideological figures of street communism. I suggest you ask your partner Mrs. Calviño about the riot and the whirlwind of her statements. It does not know what industry is, what taxes are, what budgets are, what SEPI is and what European aid is. If trembling is not knowing how to manage, it is unacceptable to harm Spain with its declarations. Shut up now. Propose to reduce the VAT on masks by 20% and to be free for those over the age of sixty-five. Mr Garzón, you have betrayed the Spaniards, you have sold to the young people and you are responsible for the biggest economic and social crisis in the recent history of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u112	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u113	Thank you, President. Mrs Riolobos, your question is an example of calm and practicality. Of course, I have to tell you that about the problem that you pointed out to me, this Government is doing what the People's Party Government has not done in seven years. Right now there is, as I said before, the law of the jungle; any betting company can publish any kind of message on any kind of support and at any time, and that is because the People's Party did nothing while ruling. And we in less than a month - as I said before - present a real decree, which is right now what worries us. And that right now it is receiving contributions from civil society, from institutions in the form of reports and that it is being improved, and I say to you - already in advance - that the final result is going to look more like Article 37 of the Royal Decree during the state of alarm than the original drafts, because this Government is truly concerned about the problem to which I referred. One in four gambling players develops gambling troubles problems. So, we have clear that preserving public health requires important measures, urgent measures. And these emergencies have to be modulated by procedural procedures. That is why, unfortunately, we still do not have an active regulation, but we hope that we can have it within a few months, hopefully before. But I tell you, I also point out to you that I wish the People's Party were responsible for what you pointed out at the beginning of your letter, even if you read the words of someone else. Because in the Andalusian Junta what has been done - governed by the People's Party, by Citizens and with the support of the extreme right - has been to provide tax bonuses to these same gambling companies. I believe that this is the worst measure to encourage alternative leisure and to eradicate the problems of ludopathy that exist in our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF THE GOVERNMENT OF ELEZCAN, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF UNIVERSITIES: WHAT MEASURES HAS THE GOVERNMENT ADOPTED IN HIS COMPETITIVE ENJOYMENT TO ENHANCE THE WORK OPPORTUNITIES OF THE UNIVERSITY STUDIES TO THE YOUTH? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00223]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u114	Question addressed to the Minister for Universities. Question by Mrs Josune Gorospe Elezcano from the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u115	Thank you, President. Minister, we are concerned about the unemployment of the most vulnerable groups, of young people and in particular, as far as you are concerned, of those who have university studies. Since the PNV we have made proposals to expand their job opportunities, such as dual university education. We would like to know what concrete measures you have taken to expand the employment opportunities of this group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u116	Mr. Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. Look, you know well that university graduates have a 40% lower unemployment rate than those who are not. Therefore, the main work of our ministry is to expand the number and quality of people, of students who can access university education. In particular, this is why we are correcting the serious inequalities that existed. Together with the Minister of Education, we have doubled the number of fellows by next year, changing and expanding the criteria; we have increased the amount of scholarships and we have ensured that these families can have access to higher education. We have also lowered or frozen the excessive rates in universities in many autonomous communities, in direct collaboration with the General Conference on Territorial Policy. In the field of business practices, we have two programmes of the Ministry: the Faro Programme and the Argo Programme, which provide substantial support to students so that they can practice in companies abroad, which I believe is a matter for our Government and which complements what the autonomous communities can do in their field. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u118	Mrs. Gorospe Elezcano.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u119	Minister, we were asking him about the leap in the university field from the workplace and, in particular, I told him about the dual university education that we have asked him many times since the PNV. We know that they have a draft royal decree, to which to article 18 from Euskadi - to the alimon the three universities of the Basque university system, Unibasq, Confebask and the Basque Government - will make proposals for its modification, in order to improve its effectiveness, because it has to refine in order to be able to reach. For example, there is no suitable form of employment contract for this system. As long as this is not the case, proposals are made for a transitional system that can regulate this situation. Adopt urgently those proposals that you are making, that you will make, and improve so that you can reach out. But since the PNV we have also made another very interesting proposal, and it is about the university walkways, the walkways for students who go from university to vocational training, because many students with university training see in vocational training a complement to that training to access the labour market, get a job and carry out their professional career there, using their university studies. And in Euskadi there is a paradox. Look, those students who have vocational training in the university family go to university, as the legislation is Basque, they are recognized a number of ECTS credits, but the same does not happen the other way around. If the university wants to move to vocational training in the same family of knowledge, it turns out that they are not recognised as ECTS credits, because it depends on state legislation and is not recognised and this possibility is not foreseen. Minister, look at Euskadi. You often acknowledge that it is a reference for you. Look at what is done, how it is done and at what pace it is done, because there is no time to lose work opportunities that we need for all groups, including those with university education, to expand. We all have to work together, all together, looking, but there's not a single chance to lose.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Mr. Minister of Universities.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u121	Thank you very much. Indeed, as you know, there is a draft royal decree in which these issues are contemplated. A draft is a draft. Seriously, not like other drafts that turns out they weren't drafts. So what I can tell you is that this draft is going to be in discussion and collaboration with you in particular for months, not days, months. So be assured that it will not be approved tomorrow, because it is very important and requires the collaboration of the entire university community and the autonomous communities. What I can tell you is our view, that practices in companies are positive, as long as labour legislation is respected and that the university carefully controls these training practices, as does the University of the Basque Country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u122	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte, into the need for a special plan for the recovery of empty Spain and the demographic challenge, in line with the objectives of the European Union's European Recovery Plan. In his defence, Mr. Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u123	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a recent session of the Commission for Reconstruction one of the participants made a simile that caught my attention. He said that our society had just had a heart attack and that, if we were responsible as a society, we should act as we act, as people, when we have a heart attack. We should think about changing our lives and changing our habits. [[The Lord]] I say this to the case of the issue that I want to deal with, which is precisely that of depopulation and the territorial balance that exists in Spain. Prior to this crisis we had already observed, after many years of studies and many years of work, the existence in Spain of two very different realities: that which we have given to classify developed Spain and underdeveloped or emptied Spain, which had generated a very serious breach, both of the Spanish Constitution in its Articles 138 and 139 and of the mandates of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union contained in its Article 174, and both legal and legal regulations order us to seek territorial balance and cohesion between the different regions and territories of Spain and Europe. That really has not been taken into account in the last four decades - since our incorporation into Europe, which we could count on as a reference - and has not been fulfilled. There has been a gradual rapprochement of Spain as a country to the European average as a whole, but internal in Spain there has been an increase or a greater polarization of the differences between these territories, contrary to the purpose of the funds that we have been receiving precisely from the European Union. We believe that the exit from this health, economic and social crisis, which has produced the COVID-19, obviously cannot leave behind, cannot lead to forget the problems that we had previously detected and that we had decided to tackle as a matter of priority in Spain. And one of them - for us the main one - was precisely this territorial imbalance. It is time to act and not so much to program or study, because it is an issue already much studied. And it is time to act because probably, given the situation and with the funds that it is supposed to allocate Europe as a financial muscle in its European Recovery Plan, if it does not act now and if it passes other decades - as it probably has to happen, because now we have four years of strong investment if everything goes on, if the plan is approved as planned, and then there would be a few years of recovery of that additional investment - if those territories do not receive support from now, it is probably their last chance and many of them tend to depopulation. Spain cannot afford to leave 70 % of its territory at risk of depopulation; barely 10 % of the population live in 70 % of its territory. It is clearly an unsustainable situation, even for the very sustainability and material existence of the territory. We cannot work like this, regardless of whether it is a fair, appropriate or correct model with these territories. We therefore propose to the Government, as a matter of urgency, that it consider a special action plan, prior to the implementation of this year's budgets, and prior to the formalization of the national recovery plan, which will have to be formalized before the European Union, with the aim, on the one hand, of adopting the urgent measures that are essential and, on the other, of moving towards the establishment of a state pact with the rest of the political forces. Solving the problem of emptied Spain, solving the issue of territorial imbalance and depopulation is not just a matter and a responsibility of the Government, it is a responsibility of all parties, of government and of opposition, and we must move towards a pact that has a medium- and long-term duration. That's why we have different aspects. First, a plan of urgent action and a second point, which would be to walk towards that pact of State. The plan of urgent measures proposed by us would include the 100-30-30 programme, which, to explain briefly, would be connected to telecommunications with 100 MB symmetrical throughout the national territory and for all inhabitants; 30 minutes of maximum displacement for any citizen to have access to a basic service, that is to say to education, health, public safety, and lastly, 30 kilometers of maximum distance from any locality to a high capacity road, collecting a plan from the Ministry of Development already included in its 2005 PEIT, so that we will ensure with this set of measures, both the physical accessibility of the territory and accessibility in telecommunications. Along with that 100-30-30 plan, an urgent housing plan would need to be activated. In the rural environment paradoxically, although we are talking about abandoned localities, the housing is not empty, the link with the one that goes on is still there, and we must push for a construction or a housing permit so that the return and the permanence of all those who want to be can be made possible. This is clearly incardinated with the Government's energy recovery projects, with the green economy, with the fair transition process. Rehabilitation needs to be promoted and public housing needs to be promoted. We also believe that it is necessary to set up a development agency, taking the example of those who have successfully acted, both in Scotland and in Lapland and in France - the Scottish Highlands is the most well-known - which is politically independent in implementing the development of these policies in the territorial sphere. We also proposed, as an urgent measure, that minimum living income should be processed so that it could be used as an incentive to stay in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants; or even repopulation for those families who could seek employment opportunities in rural areas. We believe that this is feasible; we believe that it is not only feasible, but very possible, because in this environment there are many jobs that are not covered, because they themselves do not have the capacity to generate sufficient income, but that, coordinated with this minimum living income, it would be a very important incentive to be able to get those jobs out of the economy, and for families who came to find a better quality of life and a possible livelihood. That would be our proposal to modulate minimum living income. Another very important issue, also possible, as has been identified in the recent legal pronouncements, is the differentiated tax treatment of all these territories. It can start without the need to resort to corporate taxes or PRTI, and start with a modulation of social security contributions, which is an issue that is almost entirely dependent on the Spanish Government, without breaching any rules of free competition or issues that depend on the acceptance by the European Union. This package of measures, which we are talking about as urgent measures, would be complemented by this pact of urgent measures, which we proposed to try to develop in three months. Next would be the medium- and long-term measures, which should be included in what we have called the state pact for the territorial balance and the repopulation of emptied Spain. We believe that this pact should be based on six legal pillars or six policy references. Firstly, by the Treaty establishing the European Union, Article 174 which we have mentioned, and also the articles of the Constitution which mandate us to do so; then there are the conclusions to be drawn from the Commission for Reconstruction, which is being carried out in this Congress. It would also be the European Recovery Pact itself, which the European Union is approving. As a fourth pillar, the Athens Declaration, which was made by the OECD in March 2019, would also apply precisely on this strict question of territorial repopulation and the rural environment. Another strategy to be implemented as a reference is that adopted by the European Rural Development Network, known as the Smart Territories and Peoples. And finally, we consider an important sixth pillar to walk in this pact the content of Law 45/2017, Sustainable Development of the Rural World. We believe that, on the basis of these six policy pillars, the pact could walk with sufficient consensus and produce medium- and long-term measures. There is one aspect I would like to highlight, which is often misinterpreted when we talk about unpopulated areas or the rural world, which is the uniform reduction of the rural world or its problems to that of the primary sector, agriculture and livestock. Obviously, this is a very important sector, it is the support sector or the basic fabric that supports all the existing social fabric, but it is a sector that is unable to facilitate or maintain all the employment that is required in these territories. The primary sector in Spain accounts for just 2.4% of GDP and generates just 4% of employment. Obviously, this sector, as one of the participants in the Commission for Reconstruction also commented, by itself and only has no capacity to attract a whole population which, ideally or at least in the early stages, was established in 30% of the Spanish population who could live in that 70% of the territory, instead of 10%. Obviously, the activity must be an activity not limited to the primary sector, but must be a plural activity, with an integral view of the problem of the rural world, with a holistic content, and the small industry must be incorporated, and services must be incorporated, issues that have always been in the rural world, and which we now also demand. This innovative or multifunctional view of the rural world is the one that really corresponds to its historical tradition, and it is the one that really makes it attractive. Because the demand that exists for repopulators is for repopulators of a model that we could qualify as hybrid, who are people, like most of us, who combine urban and rural experience. The new rural model is no longer a pure rural model, but it is a hybridization between the urban model and the rural model, which we also believe is a convenient hybridization because it attracts talent, retains capacity and makes the territory competitive. We understand that that's the way. We must create a competitive territory with a multifunctional reality, and we must do so now, hence the formulation of this urgent inquiry. We want to see the Government's willingness to take measures to solve the demographic challenge, to solve the problem of territorial balance and depopulation, and to be quantified in future budgets. Because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, our societies are already a little tired of words and want facts to be realized in the budgets. Our territories had a high point in the demonstration that called for this claim, which was the demonstration that was held on March 31, 2019. From there came a document that I have in my hands. [[Show a document]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u124	Mr. Guitarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u125	It is Spain's empty document, which is among the documents that exist in the Commission for Reconstruction, and I recommend that they be read. There are all the measures proposed by these territories, and there is also the warning made by these 140 platforms from 27 provinces, from 11 autonomous communities, that if they do not really meet the demands of these territories after decades of neglect, they will take the measures they understand necessary so that this is not so, because they are not - we are not - willing to let our territories die. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u126	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the name of the Government, the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u127	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that there is a very high degree of sympathy and complicity with regard to the analysis, the proposal, the diagnosis that you make; reflections that affect, that insist on the idea that the rural area, the interior Spain can not only be identified with the primary sector, but that there are different axes that allow for rapid modernization and that, for justice, for equity, for the future, we must pay attention, the attention that deserves, the impulse that deserves: to generation, to construction, to support the contribution of alternatives, but let me start my intervention by recalling that today, 17 June, is the World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought. In fact, it is essential to feel questioned in our country, a country with 75% of its area at risk of desertification, which fights every year against drought, each summer deals with fire alarms and water shortage alerts. On a day like today, aware of the risk of these kinds of phenomena to our well-being, our development, our inner Spain, I appear to respond to your inquiry. Mr Guitarte, we know that they are not problems that arise in parallel; they are, in fact, socio-environmental challenges that very often have common roots and interdependent solutions. We can curb desertification, land loss, forested areas, with measures that contribute to combating climate change, but that also ensure and reinforce the recognition of a territorial balance and of the citizens, of our compatriots living in rural environments. A transition that forces us to think of models of sustainable development, impulse to renewable energy, restoration of ecosystems, adaptation measures based on nature, valorization, care and custody of our territory, but who does this? Who produces, restores, cares, guards the territory? Who generates that energy? We have been thinking for too long that things work alone or that they are indifferent and that there is no effort, no accompaniment, no congruence in the way in which a very large part of our citizens pose their lives, and that the maintenance service of the ecosystems on which we depend is intimately associated with the well-being and the recognition of those who guard it. We have lived too long on our backs to the countryside in an insolidary way, as you denounce together with other members of this House. It is essential to regain that link between urban and rural. It has been too long since depopulation and neglect were seen indifferently; first, pharmacies were closed, schools were closed, services were closed, then, little by little, people emigrated and we came to that expression as popular, as sensitive, as delicate and as controversial as that of emptied Spain. On 29 March 2019, the Council of Ministers approved the general guidelines of the National Strategy for the Demographic Challenge, prepared with great diligence by the team of the Government Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge, I would say that with a level of support, of extraordinary sympathy on the part of the Spanish population as a whole. They did so under the mandate of the Conference of Presidents and with the collaboration of autonomous communities, autonomous cities, local entities and a very broad representation of civil society. They are guidelines that offer a shared diagnosis, as I said before, of the challenges of that interior Spain that faces, with indifference on many occasions, depopulation, ageing or floating population; guidelines from which we have to continue to work and that served as a fundamental reference in the constitution of the Delegated Commission for the Demographic Challenge and with the impetus, with the creation of a general secretariat that aims, by mandate, to build, consolidate and act in that response to which you alluded. Our actions must reflect that will for a state pact by framing short-, medium- and long-term recovery plans, and in an emergency situation such as we have today, taking full advantage of the opportunities for European financing, as we alluded to, and the synergies that the ecological transition offers for the fight against depopulation. I would like to thank you for the proposals, constructive today and constructive always, that you transfer us for the integration of all these considerations into plans for economic recovery and exit from the crisis and we are developing them. I would like to extend this recognition to the many civil society organizations, the associative fabric of our peoples, citizen platforms and municipal teams, which have been working for decades without failing in this first political line with regard to demographic challenges and solidarity. As you also stress, on 27 May the Commission presented the Recovery Plan for Europe, in which Spain, and in particular President Sánchez, has been working for weeks to ensure the necessary ambition for the good of the European project, for the sake of our country's interest. Repairing Europe and preparing it for the next generation is the mandate with which Brussels invites us to work and we feel fully identified, and I am convinced that this is also the case. It is an approach that starts from a binomial that I would say is not casual, a green and inclusive response. The ecological transition offers key social co-benefits for the revitalization of the rural environment, economic diversification, to which you referred, stable job creation and fixation in all sectors of activity, new infrastructure, innovation opportunities, building resilience and adaptation to climate change, which also create opportunities in the fight against depopulation. Valuing the care of the environment generates jobs at local level in very diverse areas that we must take advantage of, not only in the primary sector. There is no quimera, according to the Commission data, at the end of the 2008 crisis, jobs in the environmental goods and services sector increased by 20% in Europe and are the areas in which this trend has been consolidated. The recovery plan proposed by the Commission and approved by the European Council will complement the investments in the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027. Allow me to remind you briefly of some of the key aspects that we must pay attention to from this perspective that you raise. There is an ease of recovery and resilience with a forecast of EUR 750 billion for the green and digital transition, key elements for our rural Spain; a solvency support instrument to mobilize private investment that supports the sustainability agenda; and a comprehensive package of instruments to support, inter alia, measures closely related to territorial balance, such as cohesion, territorial recovery measures, measures supported by the Just Transition Fund or measures to assist farmers and rural areas in the green transition. The European plan launches clear signals for recovery based on digital transformation, industrial modernisation and infrastructure resilience, with cross-cutting bets and a clear projection towards the territory, future bets and winners if articulated. This is exactly what we want to do in Spain following our agenda, the ecological transition and the modernisation of the economy with a perspective of social inclusion and solidarity, a green and blue economy that involves education, vocational training, green employment, science, research, R & D, public services, social cohesion, impulse to the economy in all territories, curbing the depopulation and deterioration of the rural environment, a commitment that is part of our agenda, as I stated in detailing the road map that I presented to the Commission for the Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge in February and which I recently endorsed in the Commission for Social Reconstruction, in which we met again and whose work you rightly referred to a few minutes ago. I hope that in the conclusions and recommendations this House will support such initiatives and a road map that is endorsed by the orientation of the European recovery package. This autumn we want to present to the European Union our recovery and resilience plan, integrating the priorities of the demographic challenge into all the relevant lines to which you alluded, and I will now refer to them; a presentation that we must take as a fundamental starting point for the integration of the debate into the budgets, for the lines of action of this government in the time to come, guidelines of recovery in which the rural environment must be the spearhead in plans for adaptation to climate change, protection of biodiversity, ecological restoration, sustainable management of the environment, assessment of protected areas, but also, as you well indicate, in trade, in services. It must be a reconstruction in which environmental and socio-economic resilience has a prominent role, with this strengthening of the social shield of minimum living income and which could allow us to provide a shield of public services, a shield of returns, wages, wages and lifestyles compatible with life in rural areas, which can facilitate us to contribute in a complementary way to that social and territorial cohesion to which I referred, a cross-cutting pact to combat depopulation and to address the demographic challenge that drives the digitization of society, also in rural areas, the modernization of the economy, also with diversification of activities, including industry, and administrative, complementing the connectivity of the territory through infrastructure, through services, through this digital connectivity of which we spoke, promoting the economy in the areas most affected by the demographic decline, with three main axes. Firstly, digitisation, to which you referred, with the full connectivity of the Internet and mobile telephony throughout the territory. Secondly, economic recovery, effectively reviving the fight against depopulation from industrialization, communications and services, which complement that activity in the primary sectors to which we referred earlier. And, thirdly, how about housing and infrastructure, rehabilitated housing, quality housing, rented housing, so that our villages do not become abandoned niches, ageing niches, where quality of life is much more complicated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u128	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u129	I am pleased to hear the Minister's words. What I would do would be to convey to you that all that you have commented is necessary. What all our fellow citizens pass on to me is that we need to say it and do it, we need to get to work on real investments and we really need to see that there is a political will to act. I say this because we are seeing advertisements in the automotive or tourism sectors, in many other sectors, and we are seeing nothing about this problem, which is very important, as important as the others. In this connection, for example, it could be demonstrated that there is a willingness to act if the modification of the existing Pitvi, the Infrastructure, Transport and Housing Plan, is initiated, to go, as has been repeatedly proposed, to a mesh structure of communications abandoning the radial problem, which is the germ of many of these situations of territorial imbalance and depopulation. But, of course, when not even the will to modify the infrastructure plan is manifested yet, it is hardly credible that we want to move towards a mesh structure. Now many sectors - including the construction sector - are announcing the need to reinvest in infrastructure to get out of the crisis. We invested in the infrastructure that would generate that mallada Spain. Let's get out of here at the same time by changing the model of development. That would be one of the aspects. We are also now commenting on the need for own industrial production, to regain sovereignty in certain industries. Let us place this strategic production in the territories of depopulated Spain. There are many things the Government can do, for example, the announced decentralization of administrative headquarters. We are beginning to decentralise administrative and public enterprise headquarters, which would generate jobs in those territories to which they went. Traditional railways must be encouraged. We lived the appearance of the AVE as if we were the most modern in the world and did not realize that we were generating internal voids because we have connected very well a few large cities, but the conventional railway, which is the one that really structures and vertebrates the territory, has been abandoned. We must make an effort to make a modern and competitive conventional railway for passengers and goods, which will also have a mesh structure throughout our territory. That is simply it, we must move on to action, and there are many fields in which we can act without the need for major investments, but we must see that the activity is already beginning. Further issues in this regard. We have been demanding that, just as society and legislators have been able to apply to almost all their legislative production a gender perspective or a perspective of a fair transition or an ecological movement, a perspective of territorial balance is also applied to the whole of the legislation, that is, that every action or regulation produced by the Government or the Legislature be assessed in advance as to how it will impact that, if it harms or benefits the territorial balance. Probably with a precaution like that we would have avoided serious problems that have become precisely from the State's own actions. The great cause of territorial imbalances has been precisely the action of the State. That is why it is now up to it to act in such a way that it corrects these imbalances and we have a society, a territory and a territorial cohesion similar to that of countries in our environment, such as France, Germany or Italy. No one has prevented the State itself from inciting abandonment processes such as those that have occurred, for example, with the closure of barracks in many localities. The services of the State begin to leave the territory, it is the example that serves as a demonstration to the population, and the population walks behind the abandonment of the State. We must correct that and we cannot allow any train to be rescinded or any school to be closed. We have to say: so far we have arrived, we have planted ourselves and from here we have changed and we see that all this is services with a high social component to which the population is entitled and that we must demand that they be maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u130	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the fourth Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge have the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u131	Mr. Guitar, thank you very much. While listening to him I was thinking that just over five months ago we held the investiture session and that in these five months the emergence of the response to the crisis of COVID-19 has severely limited our space. Nevertheless, fortunately, we have been able to take advantage of the work of the previous legislature and to set up that delegation committee of the Government, at whose first meeting the President himself participated, to address precisely the demographic challenge. It is true that we have a great deal to do - you pointed out - but I think we have some of the most important ingredients, which are will, commitment and a diagnosis that is essentially shared by the whole House. They are perhaps the most precious pieces in order to succeed in this task that lies ahead, which is to activate all the levers, complex, structural, cross-cutting, in order to offer a different reality. You pointed out some of the main lines by talking about digitization, recovery and economic recovery, and housing and infrastructure. To this end, I would like to confirm that we are already working with the various ministerial departments, including the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, precisely to answer some of the questions we have raised - which you have raised - and to which I referred. Let me take a look at some of the issues that I believe are striking, which are part of the immediate priority and with which we would like to be able to arrive with a great deal of travel to the Conference of Presidents, which aims to adopt that national plan, that pact of State to respond to the demographic challenge of our country. Firstly, what has to do with digitisation, with connectivity; the full Internet and mobile telephony community by completing the coverage of 30 Mbps for 12% of the rural population that still lacks this connectivity and accelerating the extension of fiber optics with the intention of achieving this goal by 2022. We work with the Ministry of Economy and Digital Agenda, we have already advanced projects, 75% of them in rural areas, and we want to eliminate this gap definitively by the year 2025, including an important extension of the 5G without generating inequality. We also want to work to boost the use of digital technologies on the threefold front: social, economic and public administration. We have talked about connected schools, but we lack to complete key aspects of connected services: geriatric care services, social welfare services, medical services, trade services. The rural environment must take advantage, given its conditions of physical accessibility, of digitisation in many of these areas, which must be completed - of course not! - with that day-to-day, day-to-day, face-to-face, personalized treatment so as not to remain only in the immaterial that offers the digital, taking advantage of its advantages but limiting its negative impacts. With regard to economic recovery, we believe that the drive to industrialization on a local basis and focused on three key issues, such as digitization, energy transition and the drive of green industries in rural areas, can be a good way of entering flexibly and innovatively into this revival and diversification of economic activities. We believe that a plan to support rural retail trade is essential to preserve this welfare capacity in our local communities, encouraging the development of new business models, commercial coverage of the territory, connectivity and the generation of local networks. We believe that the momentum of sustainable and safe tourism, at a particularly strange, peculiar moment, in which the incentive to national tourism together with this temporary limitation of international tourism can offer very interesting opportunities on which to abound, on which to build the exploitation of natural, cultural and heritage resources of the interior, with great potential for economic diversification and its consolidation. Of course, the call for pilot projects for social innovation, for dynamism in rural areas or for a boost to housing, as I said before, in the context of the development of the urban agenda, for urban rehabilitation, in priority areas for the demographic challenge. Many looks are turning towards the rural environment, more after this terrible crisis that we have experienced. For this reason, from the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge we are making progress in the dynamism of a practically non-existent real estate market in the rural environment, promoting the rehabilitation of the already built residence, the recovery of traditional practices, promoting savings, the use of renewables and the reduction of emissions and facilitating the promotion of a public rental park together with our colleagues from the Ministry of Transport and Urban Agenda. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u132	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to the Minister of the Interior to explain the decisions taken within the framework of the Civil Guard. [[File number 172/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u133	Then, urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to the Minister of the Interior to explain the decisions taken within the Civil Guard. Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like my first words to be for the families of all the deceased of COVID and especially for the police, civilian guards and prison officials who died on duty. Marlaska began his appearance in Congress in 2018 quoting Cicero: The evidence is the most decisive demonstration, he said. Well, let's examine Mr. Marlaska's evidence. June 2018. On the occasion of the aggression against members of the Citizens Party in the march of the Gay Pride and his unfortunate words justifying such aggression, a report is made which is discovered that it was later manipulated in the ministry. The PP asks a written and simple question to the government: whether the report had been sent to the ministry in Word or PDF format, and the answer was: We received it in the usual format. There's that. That day you kill Judge Marlaska and the superb Minister Marlaska appears, capable of everything. In the first months of his arrival in the ministry, changes and cessations occur, both in the National Police and in the Civil Guard, which reveal his future attack and intentions with the Civil Guard. For example, when Colonel Juan Hernández Mosquera is relieved from the ministry's coordinating cabinet, an important position in the organizational chart for his neutrality and occupied for thirty consecutive years by the Civil Guard, to place a police commissioner linked to the PSOE in his place. August 2018. Cesan to Colonel Sánchez Corbí, a professional with an impeccable trajectory. He ceased on the grounds of lack of confidence, when the reality was that he complained that he did not have the means to continue investigating cases, including some corruption affecting his party. When you are forced to come to Congress to the Committee on the Interior to give explanations for such arbitrary cessation, you refused to give them, you left without appearing; we will never forget such disrespect to this House. October 2019. There are two things going on here. An unforgettable photo in which they leave the cops abandoned, burn Barcelona and attack the agents, some even stay between life and death, while you take a mojito in Madrid. He did not send reinforcements, despite being begged, so as not to upset his independence partners. What a difference, Mr Marlaska, with all the reinforcements of the Civil Guard that sent to the house of Mr Iglesias, five more than to stop this human mass in Barcelona. [[shows two photographs]] A second thing happens, a CDR investigation is opened by the Civil Guard, which ends with arrests, arrests that anger its independent partners. You abrogate all commandos for not leaking the investigation. That day you already practice the first judicial interference, which later ends with the cessation of the director of the Civil Guard. Year 2020, we landed in Barajas. A series of lies and versions in which you send Mr. Ábalos, with police powers, invested as a commissioner, disauthorizing the National Police, to walk around the airport and promote a clandestine encounter with a torturer of the Maduro dictatorship, meeting that today we know was planned and scheduled by Mr. Zapatero. Even today he will continue to deny that this lady stepped on Spain. A scandal you're a co-protagonist of. We started with the chapter minister Montero; it was known but could not be said. January 2020. The Civil Guard Biological Risk Unit warns in a report of the virulence of the virus; you do nothing. Prison institutions on February 4 makes a report demanding a meter away in prisons; you do nothing. On January 24, the head of Labor Risk Prevention of the National Police makes a report on the COVID: avoid agglomerations, wear masks; you do nothing. I'm sorry, here you are doing something, which you like best: to stop; you stop the prevention inspector and, on top of that, the day that comes to the Interior Commission tells us that you were disloyal because that inspector sent that report to all the police units and that this could create alarm in the population. Mr. Marlaska, how many dead have cost Spain that you did not alert when there was cause for alarm, how many, Mr. Marlaska? [[Applauds]] You cease to alarm and then put us in a state of alarm, that's your inoperation. Is it disloyal to protect the police? Don't you think the disloyal is you, having all these reports not inform us all the Spaniards? On April 5, with 20,000 dead, you said you had nothing to regret. Do you think knowing all this has no reason to regret it, instead of fulminating professionals? That day it was shown that his incompetence is equal to his pride. Now we come to the Carmen Calvo chapter. What were you doing, Mr. Marlaska, what were you doing? For Mr.Marlasca, as minister of censorship, was in an operation to limit and restrict freedom of expression; he was already putting his hands on the Civil Guard. When General Santiago speaks of the order of identification of publications contrary to and critical of the Government, you begin with your sart of lies. First, that there was no such order; second, that it had been a lapse of the general; third, when all Spaniards already saw the order and that it was for forthcoming meetings with the head of the ministerial department, you tell us that what we read here the Spaniards is not really what this order says. And we come to the chapter of the greatest attack in history on the Civil Guard. Today we know that the Supreme already records his first complaint against you for such an episode. Mr. Marlaska, a civilian guard had never said, "So far I'm here, I can't do it anymore. And now the DAO, the number one civilian guard, says, "I can't do it anymore, I'm leaving. This is an unprecedented fact in one hundred and seventy-six years of the Civil Guard's history. You, Mr. Marlaska, ceased Colonel Pérez de los Cobos for refusing to commit an illegality, which was to interfere with justice, and for this he did not mind lying as often as necessary, including by attacking the honor of the Civil Guard and beginning, supported by his partners in Podemos, with a campaign of contempt for the Civil Guard: Mr. Churches asking for their demilitarization, Mr. Garzón calling them coups, the delegate of the Government of Madrid calling them chapuzas; a campaign to attack directly the reports of the Civil Guard that they did not like. Whatever it took to keep you sitting there in the Council of Ministers. Mr. Marlaska, you lied about your way of surviving, you lied in Congress, in the Senate, in Moncloa; where necessary, you lie. On May 26 he said it was a natural process of substitution; remodeling that, according to you, arrived two years later and one Sunday at ten o'clock in the night. And it accompanies him from the salary increase to try to buy and silence such scandal. How wrong I was, the police and civilian guards have the honor that the final Minister Marlaska today does not have: on 27 May, which was a new impulse to the Civil Guard; on 2 June he refers to the possibility that he stopped filtering the report; on 3 June, that the fault of the cessation was the Secretary of State. You stopped it - because we all have the note here - for not giving you the Civil Guard's report on the investigations that were prejudicial to your government and that your pride did not tolerate it. This led to arbitrary cessations and resignations that were not foreseen. It was not his false remodeling, Mr Marlaska, and I explain it to him: first, it took twenty days to fill the post of Pérez de los Cobos, because he did not find a substitute. Second, he had to delay the appointments, because they had to be promoted to lieutenant generals before. Thirdly, even his Government colleagues did not support such cessations and appointments. He was able to seek complicity in everyone and anyone and even falsify press releases. First press release that we find from the Ministry of the Interior: The Minister of the Interior, Fernando Grande-Marlaska, has agreed with the Minister of Defense, Margarita Robles, the promotion to lieutenant general of division of Don Félix Blázquez. An hour later, new press release: Interior Minister Fernando Grande-Marlaska has proposed the promotion. You, it was just you. It was the reprobation from its own Council of Ministers to its cessations. Today, Minister, the loss of confidence is in you. The associations of judges, prosecutors, unanimously all the associations of the Civil Guard ask for their resignation for attacking the neutrality of justice and judicial independence. You - I told you on April 23 - are not the Civil Guard, I repeat, you are not the Civil Guard. You've lost all legitimacy. Mr. Marlaska, it's a shredder of truth. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the Civil Guard currency is honor; your currency, Mr Marlaska, is the lie. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u135	On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u136	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vázquez Blanco, in place of Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, thank you very much for your speech. I would also like my first words to be for all the citizens who have died as a result of COVID-19 and, in particular, as you have also said, Mrs Vázquez, to point out above all to the officials of the State Security Forces and Bodies, prison officials and civil servants of the Ministry of the Interior. I have to recognize something, Mrs. Vazquez Blanco. I looked forward to having a debate of interpellation with your honor or with Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, who signed the interpellation, and not only as a spokesman for the parliamentary group. I expected it, because when I received the text of his initiative - to explain the decisions taken within the Civil Guard - it seemed to me a great opportunity to take stock of the management carried out, to explain at parliamentary level the policies followed, to contrast data and visions with the opposition, what it is, Your Honor, to have a debate of height, to confront management with alternatives, in conclusion, what it is appropriate: to be accountable, which is what the citizenry expects the government to do, but also to demand a responsible opposition, an opposition worthy of that name. Instead - believe me, I am sorry to tell you - I have witnessed your intervention, being a person who knows the matter of security, as is your case - so I am very grateful that you have taken the floor in this inquiry - and I have to say that I have the same feeling as I had previously expected: twelve minutes absolutely disappointing in relation to the inquiry presented in this House. You raise general causes without any thread and, of course, without any purpose to know the decisions taken with regard to the Civil Guard and to express real concern about the working conditions and all kinds of its members, men and women. It has been an intervention - I have to say, Mrs Vázquez - sectarian, plagued - you know well - by anecdotes, manipulated facts, fabulations and many infamies, which surely have been written down and which, above all, portray one more week the opposition being made by the People's Party. I believed that since yesterday you were embarking on another path, a path closer to the encounter, to what Spanish society asks, but I see, maintaining this behavior, this attitude, that it is still difficult for you to take that step and to separate a little bit from the extreme right. And even if it seems to you that seeing you in this drift can amuse us - if I may say so - because that position will keep you in opposition for a long time, the truth is that we are concerned. The President of the Government has said this today and on different occasions, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations have been saying this. We can: make the ideas of the far right, of which they are being placed so close, the only possibility of a political alternative in our country, can only be defined as very worrying. That is why I invite you to reflect. It is a pity, Mrs Vázquez, that you have no interest in the public policies of this ministry and, in particular, your no interest in the policies related to the Civil Guard. If his lordship had been interested in the policies of this ministry in relation to the Civil Guard, surely we would have had the opportunity to discuss what has been being done since June 2018. The largest infrastructure plan in the last ten years, ladies and gentlemen, yes: EUR 600 million for police stations, barracks and all kinds of equipment. To us - I repeat, Mrs Vázquez - we care about the conditions in which the State Security Forces and Corpses work and, in particular, the Civil Guard, which does so in less populated environments, and we have once had an inquiry into this. Mrs Vázquez, if you had had the least interest in talking about the management carried out, we could have exchanged views on the offer of public employment: 115 % of the replacement rate, more than 2200 - in particular, 2275 - places for the National Police Corps last year, which are already in practice, and more than 2600 - in particular, 2606 - places for the Civil Guard Corps, which are also in practice. And all this for what purpose? With a goal that can sound to you, because you have already been present in this Chamber in other legislatures: to face the loss of 12,000 agents between 2011 and 2018, when the People's Party ruled our country. Furthermore, we could have done so without you taking this debate as a reproach, because you yourself have been critical of those policies. We would have discussed that, in 2018, this ministerial team found itself in the drawer of the ministry - you know well, because it made some intervention on it - an equalization agreement that was pure smoke. Neither a record - nor a record - nor an implementation plan, nor a timetable or compliance with the prerequisites for dealing with the Ministry of Finance, as I said earlier, and with the Budget Office in this regard. Nothing. With much effort we have completed each of the planned stages, and with this third stage, to which you have referred, the police and the Civil Guard's payroll will increase by an average of more than 20%, consolidating the EUR 807 million; an increase that we should be happy about and which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have dedicated themselves today to discrediting by comparing it with a purchase of wills. Mrs. Vazquez, what concept do you have of people? What concept do you have of the State Security Forces and Bodies? What idea do you and your parliamentary group have in order to be able to stand, as I said today, in representatives of the National Police and the Civil Guard? They're not patrimonial. What concept do you have of politics? And I ask him for concepts, because if he had management experience, how the administration works, how the rules are made and how budgets are made, how time and development are made so that they can be approved by the Council of Ministers and how long it takes to materialize, he would not have been able to say anything about what he said about the third stage without falling into blush. But you supposedly wanted to discuss the decisions taken within the Civil Guard and return to them, ladies and gentlemen. If you had been interested in discussing this, we would have been able to discuss many issues that we want to address in these four years. Issues such as the plans for the renewal of everyday means and equipment; the improvement of the capabilities of the Civil Guard in the context of the fight against organized crime within the power of the Citco; the increase of its specialization to ensure the digital transition of our country fighting against cybercrime - you, when talking about cybercrime, are only interested in bubbles -; its strategic role in territorial vertebration and the demographic challenge, with the improvement of its presence to guarantee security and, therefore, equal rights in rural areas - what certainly matters to Mr. Guitarte, as he said previously - or how we will improve its capacity to respond to natural disasters to which we are faced with this climate change that many still deny. On the other hand, you have presented yourself in this House and you have only touched on two issues that I am going to discuss very briefly and that it was easy to know that they were going to come out. You told us a lot about cessations, alleged purges and political instrumentalization of the State Security Forces and Bodies. Since you are a parliamentarian in this House, you must have courage. You will see, Your Honor, in a few years' time, when we look back, when we review the parliamentary work carried out by all of us, I am sure that we will find things that can be improved, of course, that we will appreciate critically and soundly, as appropriate, that certain actions could have been done with other rhythms, in another way and even better, and that is absolutely normal. But I will tell you something that I will be really proud of: never, I say to you, Mrs Vázquez, will no parliamentary committee ever describe how this progressive government used the Ministry of the Interior in an unacceptable way for partisan purposes. Never. Because, along with the cut-off of agents I have told you, 12,000, and the worsening of their pay conditions, that is the great legacy of the People's Party's security policy, regardless of some other manifestations we have heard recently coming from beyond. I'm coming to an end, President. The second issue has to do with the great effort you have made to be a representative of a collective, as I have said before. Today you have tried to become, like other parliamentary groups, a spokesperson for the Civil Guard. I have said it before and I repeat it now: neither you nor any parliamentarian on the right nor the right is a spokesman for the Civil Guard. I hope this is the last day I have to say, in response to questions or inquiries, that they are not spokespersons of the Civil Guard. I would like to say once again that neither you nor any parliamentarian on the right nor on the right has the monopoly to represent the opinion of an institution in this House. I invite you to stop doing so in the future. Stop patrimonializing the Civil Guard, first out of respect for intelligence and, secondly, Mrs Vázquez, out of decency. I'm done, Mr. President. If anything defines, magnifies and ennobles the Civil Guard, if anything explains its 176 years of history, as you yourself have recalled, if something identifies them as a body, there are two things: first, the principle of loyalty to the rule of law and to the Constitution, as I reminded Mr. Gil Lázaro today with a historical fact, and secondly, his strict political neutrality. In that case, I invite you to reflect and to have a second round of constructive debate on decisions actually taken within the Civil Guard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mrs Vázquez. [[Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos calls for the floor]] What article do you mention, Your Honor? Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Article 71. For repeated allusions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u138	No, you don't have the floor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: There are repeated allusions from the minister that correspond...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u139	Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, article 71 speaks of allusions that involve judgment of value or inaccuracy and there has been neither. [[Several Members: Exactly!]] [[Protests.-Mrs Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos: Allusions and Inaccuracy]] There hasn't been either. You don't have the floor. Mrs Vazquez has the floor. [[Mrs Álvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos: I do not think it is acceptable]] I give the floor to Mrs Vázquez, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, and she will be able to rebut what she understands best. I understand it cannot seem to you, but Mrs Vázquez has the floor. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mrs.Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos: Are you aware that the Rules are being skipped?]] Your Honor, Mrs Vázquez has the floor. I'm asking you to sit down and let's listen to your fellow spokesman, please. [[Protests.- Mr. Ledesma Martín utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Ledesma, please hold still.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Marlaska, your lack of knowledge of the laws is tremendous. Do you know that the interpellations have to be signed by the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups? [[Applauds]] If your problem was to offend this spokesman by doing less about Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, you have failed, because it is not anyone who can offend and you are no longer in a position to offend anyone in this Parliament. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Marlaska, were already bringing the written answer; you did not answer anything. You talk about fables. Is it a fable or an anecdote that you have an accusation today? Do you know you have a complaint in the Supreme Court? Do you know? Or is she finding out about this congresswoman? Are also the manifestos made by the associations of judges, prosecutors and the Civil Guard asking for their resignation a fable? Are they a fable? You didn't tell me about the cessations, you didn't tell me about the interferences, you told me about something you like, and you tell me: you have to have courage. I'm going to tell you today; I wasn't going to tell you, in fact I had it for the replica. You speak again of the Commission of Inquiry that was made here of the police. I will remind you, because you only know the conclusions, they did not give you the rest of the report. I, first of all, believe in the professionals of the police and the Civil Guard when they appear. There were eleven people in that Commission; my party had only three and Citizens one, the rest, their partners. Independentists, PSOE and Podemos at that time buy the story of Podemos and say there was a political police. I will tell you a number of things: a case in a court that you are asking to be closed; a case of Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who went from victim to executioner; and you, Mr.Marlaska, on April 1st: Marlaska says that the cloacas do not exist in the Interior; the police and civilian guards are accomplices to the law and the Constitution and they have asked Mr. Pablo Iglesias if he has something to say expressly, but he cannot generate distrust in the institutions if there is no data. But it is more, Mr Marlaska, and we must have courage. On April 23, you said: I did not like hearing 'political police' either, because I am the Minister of the Interior, but I have been taught that freedom of expression consists in listening, even if I do not like it. You didn't like the political police, but now you take that aggressive and anti-police concept to save yourself. Don't drag anymore. It's getting closer and closer to the bench. I told you: resign from the blue bank before you get to the justice bank. We will present the reprobation against you next Tuesday, for your undemocratic attitude, for your interference in the judiciary. Laugh, Mr. Marlaska, laugh, that I too will laugh at you when I reach the Supreme. Be sure of it. [[Applauds]] He knows that one day I congratulated him and said: I am very sad to lose the government in a motion of censure, but if anything I am glad that you are the minister. Today I withdraw that congratulations, because it has disappointed me, like many Spaniards. I'm finishing up. Mr. Marlaska, today was a day to recognize truths and not to persevere in lies, because the problem of lying is not the lie itself, it is the liar. Thus, the liar ends up convinced that he acts in the service of a common good and that the rejection and disaffection of the courts and public opinion towards the liars is unreal. But we will not consent to you becoming more passive witnesses of your permanent lie. The truth, despite your obfuscation, has to be a moral principle in politics, and you have lost it. Without truth and without principles there is no point in following, Mr Marlaska. Your main enemy is you, because you reaffirm yourself when we reveal your lies, and that is the end of the road. Today I began with Cicero, ladies and gentlemen, and I also end with him: Of men it is wrong, of fools to persist in error. You have gone beyond the limits of error and lies. Mr. Marlaska, when there's nothing left, there's only one way out: resign. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u141	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfection of the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vázquez, first of all, I want to say that I know a little about the rules of Congress. The spokesman signs it, but the person who then makes the inquiry also confirms the writing. In this case, there was only the spokesman's signature. I mean normally, and I hope you get it right. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u143	Minister, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, your group's spokesman has been heard silently and politely. Please request correspondence and parliamentary courtesy. Let's listen to the intervener.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u144	Secondly, that is the consequence of us being able to prepare the speeches knowing who the person we are going to discuss with is. Of course, we have a discussion with a parliamentary group, but it is always important to know those circumstances. That issue has no greater relevance, but nothing to demerit, Mrs Vázquez. I see, by your reply, you haven't heard me. I said that it seemed very timely and very optimal for you to be the person to debate, if we were really going to talk about the Civil Guard and the decisions made in the Civil Guard environment, because you are a person trained, for different reasons, in the area of security, and I refer to the expressions I have used. Is that demerit? I think you have to change your mind a little and really interpret my words as they are. That is why, Mrs Vázquez, I regret that in this second intervention you have still persisted more in the error of continuing with lies, insults and infamy and worrying very little about the decisions that have been made about the Civil Guard and the rest of the State Security Forces and Bodies in order to guarantee, of course, their safety and to develop their work in the conditions they must do so. I am sorry because you do not cease to be, as I have said, the main opposition party; I am sorry because, even at this time as Minister of the Interior, I do not cease to be a citizen who does not want an alternative government for your country that supports extreme right-wing ideas such as those I am seeing, and I am sorry because one assumes that after having had government responsibilities - not you, but your party, which has ruled this country for fifteen years - you could act in a less radical, less irresponsible way. It's a race that you'll lose forever. Crispation doesn't lead anywhere, to no station, it doesn't lead to any Ithaca, as you like some literary quotes. Mrs Vázquez, you accuse me of not explaining the decisions that have been made within the Civil Guard. I wonder: Where have you been, Mrs Vazquez, these three weeks? Because if you think that your initiative is very current, that the initiative of your parliamentary group or your intervention is very new, I regret to say that you are quite late. In summary: about twenty oral questions in Congress and in the Senate - by the way, the majority of your parliamentary group and a good number of them signed by the spokesman, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo -; two questions - in fact, this same subject I dealt with last week with Mr Bal - and a appearance in the Senate, in which your party colleagues, like you, ignored the policies that this ministry poses and focused exclusively on the issues that you have brought to this debate. But if you intend to put in my mouth the answers that your lordship - yes, that your lordship, Mrs Vázquez - would want on this subject, I think we will discuss it to the full, because I will not, because I do not like to say a falsehood. By resuming the meaning of your inquiry, Your Honor, you ask me to explain the decisions within the Civil Guard. We spoke before the improvements in infrastructure. I also referred to the increase in the supply of public employment and talked about equal pay. I have mentioned something important to you, such as the battery of measures focused on improving capacities, means and modernization of procedures. To this I would like to add that, along with these measures, the Civil Guard will have the best management teams, which is very easy, because the Civil Guard's commanding group has a commendable personal and professional capacity. The hard thing is to choose between them. For the first time in 176 years a woman with a very high professional and personal qualification runs the institution. The new Director-General will also be accompanied by the best team of generals, the Deputy Director of Operations, the Operations Command, the Personnel Command, the Support Command, and we hope that a command in migration policy. A new team, resulting from the natural renewal of management teams, natural renewal that occurs; a team that symbolizes the best values of the Civil Guard: honor, political neutrality and professionalism. Mrs Vázquez, ladies and gentlemen of the right, if you think that by making noise, crippling or spreading lies about me or my teams are going to make me lose the determination to develop my work in the ministry, you are wrong. We will continue to recover security as a public good, as a value, not as it was for you: an expense that had to be avoided. We will improve the working conditions, pay and materials of our public employees. We will modernize our security model in terms of professionalism, objectivity and political neutrality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u146	We continue with the agenda item on the debate on all legislative initiatives. First, draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May 2006 on Education. The Minister of Education has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 12 January this year the President of the Government honoured me as Minister of Education and Vocational Training of a legislature that began on 3 February. Just over a month later, this Government has faced an unprecedented global pandemic. I take this opportunity to show my solidarity with the families of the victims and also with those who are still suffering from the disease. Now, four months later, I appear before you to present to you the main axes of the amendment of the Organic Law on Education that is being debated today. We have presented a draft thus expressing the priority of education for this Government, a project that repeals Lomce and its negative consequences, in response to the commitment signed in July 2013 by ten political groups of Congress. But the goal of the law is much broader, it is a bet on other improvements that our educational system needs. The extraordinary stress test to which we have been subjected has shown that Spanish education has a solid basis. The entire educational community has worked in a coordinated manner to ensure the learning of our students, after having interrupted the classroom activities. However, what has been happening these months has underlined the need to act with determination and ambition and to face a future that has come at once by building a modern educational model, based on an education law that adapts to the new demands that arise from us. It is therefore a necessary and timely bill, an effective norm because it addresses the main challenges of the system. This draft, which is being debated today, offers a renewed legal framework that will enable us to achieve three types of objectives. [[The lady]] First, to increase the educational and training opportunities of the entire population, helping to improve their level of competence through the approval of a modern, flexible, agile, less encyclopedic curriculum that gives priority to the most relevant learning. We therefore bet decisively on early detection of the difficulties and barriers that prevent students from exercising their right to education, greater personalization of learning - a fundamental issue - and a dynamic of continuous improvement of educational institutions by strengthening their autonomy, fostering their capacity for innovation and promoting their improvement plans. To this end, the principles and purposes of the education system are updated. A new definition of curriculum is given and the distribution of competences between government and autonomous communities in the curriculum is modified. Education inclusion and personalized care are strengthened at all stages, the prevention of learning difficulties and the implementation of reinforcement mechanisms as soon as they are detected. It promotes continuity in education and training, eliminating unnecessary double paths and obstacles and supporting all students with the aim of achieving the highest educational level possible. One example is the setting up of a single compulsory secondary school diploma, the recovery of curricular diversification programmes or the new setting of basic vocational training. The competence of the curriculum is strengthened and its organization is made more flexible, facilitating the grouping of subjects in fields and enabling project work. The training value of the evaluation of the learnings carried out is supported, enhancing its integrative and collegiate character, developing diagnostic evaluations and linking academic evaluation to the achievement of the capacities to be achieved at each educational stage. The bachelor's degree is recovered through an ordinary evaluation process, resuming the proof of access exclusively for admission to university. It flexifies its duration, without obliging unnecessarily to repeat entire courses. The draft law I am presenting fulfils the constitutional mandate that states that teachers, parents and students will be involved - as is said in the Constitution - in the control and management of all the centres supported by public-funded administrations. To this end, it makes the collegiate bodies in which the different sectors of the educational community participate real organs of government and assigns them powers in approving the institutional documents of the centre or in selecting the director, thereby strengthening the autonomy of the centres. Secondly, we seek to strengthen the system's equity and inclusive capacity by introducing measures to avoid segregation. This principle is fundamental to promoting quality education for all, reducing early school leaving and ensuring education in civic values. We propose that educational administrations pay particular attention to rural and island schools, encouraging the retention of all students in the education system. We want to guarantee the right to equal and non-discriminatory access to education, restoring the balance in the programming of the network of centres, guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all and ensuring adequate distribution of pupils in disadvantaged economic situations or in need of educational support. Thirdly, we propose to strengthen the digital competence of students, from all stages of education, so that they acquire competences of this type at the highest level, both through the introduction of specific content and through a cross-cutting perspective, and thus respond to a knowledge society and an increasingly digitalized economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to dwell on the legal changes we are proposing for vocational training, a determined commitment from this government which also reflects on this bill. The project aims to make these teaching more flexible and to speed up the incorporation of new content, organises access to training courses and other teaching courses, avoiding dead paths, which together with other measures, such as the strengthening of the processes of accreditation of professional and personal competences, in order to promote continuous training and continuity of studies, are the basis for organizing inclusive, non-sexist, personalised, competitive, sustainable and digitised vocational training that will enable our young people to gain access to the labour market under the best conditions. [[Applauds]] The project also strengthens the educational value of care for children under three years of age. The Government is given a mandate in collaboration with the education authorities to regulate the minimum requirements to be met by the centres providing the first cycle of child education, because we need to ensure equal opportunities from the early stages and that all families who wish to do so can obtain a place in a children's school. On the occasion of the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, the faculty has once again proved itself not only as an essential element of the education system, but as a group of professionals capable of moving from one model of face-to-face education to another of distance and online education in twenty-four hours. I use these words to express my appreciation to all teachers, to all professionals who have been doing their best to make the effective functioning of education possible, but the law wants to make progress in the improvements that this collective requires and that relate to the processes of initial training, access to the teaching function and their ongoing training to take on the new challenges that the law poses regarding more inclusive education or the greater weight of collegiality at work. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is based on five approaches that I would like to stress. First, and for the first time, it establishes as a guiding principle the effective implementation of children's rights, as set out in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. It recognizes the best interests of the child, his or her right to education and the obligation of the State to ensure the fulfilment of his or her rights. It is a new dimension that I want to highlight because it is the first time, as I say to you, that it is explicitly established as the principle of the educational system, the guiding principle. [[Applauds]] Secondly, it proposes a cross-cutting approach to strengthening learning, aimed at raising student performance through a dynamic of continuous improvement of the centres and greater customization of learning. We can do it, ladies and gentlemen. Thirdly, it recognizes the importance of addressing sustainable development, in accordance with the 2030 Agenda. This includes incorporating the knowledge, skills, values and attitudes that all people need to live a fruitful life, education for peace and human rights, intercultural education and education for ecological transition and international understanding. Fourthly, it takes a gender equality approach through co-education, promoting at all stages the learning of effective equality between men and women, the prevention of gender-based violence and respect for sexual diversity, and introducing an inclusive and non-sexist perspective into educational and vocational guidance. Fifthly, and lastly, the law considers it necessary to incorporate into education the digital change that is taking place in our societies, taking into account the impact of technological advances. To this end, attention is paid to the development of digital competition at all stages of education, both through specific content and from a cross-cutting perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, rejecting this bill means defending the maintenance of a law that has given normative coverage to the whole policy of cuts in education, from 5.04 % of GDP in 2009 to just under 4% by the end of 2017. These cuts have particularly affected public education, as funds for other grants and concerts have grown to 7.7%. [[Applauds]] The arguments mentioned in the three amendments to the whole presented do not at all, ladies and gentlemen, respond to the content of the law. The Lomloe retains the right of parents to choose the religious formation they wish for their children; reformulates the regulation of the teaching of Spanish and the co-official languages, taking into account the Lomce parties which repealed the Constitutional Court's ruling; and fulfils the obligation of the Constitution to guarantee the right of everyone to education through general programming of education with effective participation of all sectors concerned in the establishment of educational institutions. Finally, I would like to refer to two arguments from one of the amendments as a whole. This draft law reflects, as I have already pointed out, the objectives of the 2030 Agenda because it is a fully effective agenda and a source of inspiration not only for the development of this draft legislation, but also for other legislative developments in countries in our environment. This bill also aims to continue to reduce, as has been the case since the transfer of educational competences to the autonomous communities, territorial differences in the main educational indicators, inter alia, through territorial cooperation programmes. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is committed to improving public funding for education, to improving its investment. Thus, it will improve equity and materialize the projects and programmes it defends, overcoming the financial insufficiency it has been suffering from public education. This Government believes in education, firmly committed to it as one of the elements that sustain the welfare state. For this reason, it is making a great effort to invest in this matter, not to leave anyone behind, to take advantage of all the talents; an investment effort that goes beyond economic or political circumstances, as evidenced by the fact that we are responding to a crisis caused by a pandemic with more investment in education. Talents are enhanced by investment, ladies and gentlemen, not by cuts. [[Applauds]] And to the largest increase in the scholarship and study grant fund in recent years, by 22%, 386 million euros until reaching just over EUR 19 billion, is added the EUR 2 billion non-reimbursable fund of 16 billion for the autonomous communities that the Council of Ministers approved yesterday, and another 260 million euros, that will be allocated to digitisation in education. To this investment, ladies and gentlemen, will soon be added a robust programme of territorial cooperation for strengthening education and a major investment in modernising vocational training to be one of the pillars of reconstruction and employability. Ladies and gentlemen, the current law must be amended and thereby correct the most negative consequences that Lomce has caused and the problems of instability that it has caused in the education system. I am referring to the sharp increase in primary repetition rates caused by Lomce, particularly in the first implementation course, which remained at very high levels, exceeding more than twice the average of our environment. I am also referring to the fall in gross graduation rates in compulsory secondary education and high school, breaking a series of years of improvement. But the effects of Lomce on the system's lack of equity are even more unfortunate by leading the student to itineraries that do not lead in any way, such as the basic FP, or by replacing the curriculum diversification that was operating with a program called PMAR, which did not carry in any way and with less follow-up than the previous ones, thus establishing a hierarchy in subjects contrary to an integral and complete conception of training. I told you at first, ladies and gentlemen, that I was presenting myself to you with this law five months after I was confirmed as a minister, but, as you well know, the draft first came to this House a year and a half before this debate. This period has allowed their full knowledge by the public and the educational community. During the process there has been and was wide participation and debate on the part of the educational community, which I do not repeat because of its knowledge. Recent developments, the disease and the pandemic caused by COVID-19, have delayed its processing and have also had a significant impact, in the sense of generating new proposals that can serve to improve the text. I am convinced that this project, which will be discussed and improved with its contributions, is a solid basis for setting up the education system that Spain needs to meet the challenges facing us in the coming decades. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. The benefits of education are not just individual, they are social benefits, and the social benefits of education are multiple, cumulative, structural, because at a higher educational level better citizenship, better wages, higher levels of trust, better health and vital satisfaction and greater civic participation. In the past legislature, as you know, a subcommission was created for a pact for education in the Congress of Deputies, in this house. It lasted a year and a half and there were more than eighty participants, but the pact was not achieved, nothing followed the year and a half of work of that subcommission. Those of us who have the obligation to dive beyond the surface have worked hard to find still broad bases of consensus that we are now addressing and that are the following: first, reduce early school leaving, which is the second highest in the European Union; second, professional career teaching, which must adapt to the reality that we live with a period of induction: third, curriculum change, to move from the current encyclopedic to a modern and competitive one; fourth, strengthening autonomy, autonomy of the centres; fifth, improvement of evaluation; and sixth, urgent treatment of the abuse of repetition in the Spanish educational system, which is proving that it does not improve learning, that it is inefficient and that it generates many more problems than it solves. [[applause]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are pushing this bill into a sincere attempt at collaboration and open dialogue to work together. I am, we are, of those who think that no one has the complete solution, and this, which is true in everything, is more so in education, which is a puzzle of many pieces. My Government, my parliamentary group, certainly does not have all of them, but among all of them, we can bring them together. We must move forward together in what concerns us all, improving and modernising education, vocational training and lifelong learning as democratic drivers of the knowledge society, as citizenship rights. It is a mandate, ladies and gentlemen, that it is up to us to build among all without leaving anyone behind. We will do so with consensus decisions in the short term and with more strategic and also consensus decisions in the medium and long term. The citizenship of this country demands a modern, more open, less rigid, multilingual, cosmopolitan education system; a system based on universality and inclusion, without segregating or excluding by capacity, gender or family origin, because all of us, all of us, need and are equally citizens in construction and lifelong learning, both children and young people as well as adults. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish education system provides coverage and training for 9,100 000 pupils in non-university education, with the joint work of almost 700,000 professionals. It is a fundamental pillar of the welfare state, and it is the most effective and equalizing predisposing social investment that all governments have at our disposal. It is not a question of renouncing the principles of anyone, but of working from our convictions for the common good of the citizens, seeking agreement on how much it unites us. Education is a priority if we are to win the future. I dare say that this is the most substantive and central priority. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your kind attention. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u148	Thank you very much, Minister of Education and Vocational Training. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Three amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your exhibition. Look, between 11 and 13 March, as has already been said, all educational institutions in this country closed down to prevent the spread of COVID-19. More than 10 million students, their teachers and their families were affected by this measure. Today we still don't know when we're going to be able to come back or how we're going to be able to do it. For more than four months now, teachers, students, teachers, even some politicians, have been concerned about three fundamental issues. First of all, we wonder what the diagnosis is, what has happened, how we have responded to this crisis and how it has affected this in terms of equity and quality to the education system, and how we can improve. Secondly, we ask ourselves what implications and what effects this will have on the education of children in the future and how we can make these effects as harmful as possible. Finally, Perogrullo's question is how we will be able to go back to schools, when we will be able to go back and under what conditions we will be able to do so. While the majority of mortals are on these issues, the Government is presenting to us today the Celaá law with great ideological biases, as they have already seen, and opening a melon that, frankly, does not now touch. Because the truth is that imposing a structural reform of silence, unconsensuous and in a situation, no longer of pandemic or state of alarm in which we follow but of real educational emergency, is a painful lack of empathy with the citizens, but, above all, from my point of view, and given the text that is presented, a deep irresponsibility. Mrs Celaá, I am sorry to tell you that your reformation is born dead; it is born dead from its background and form. Everything predicts that if in the end it succeeds in passing this procedure and succeeds in being approved, this law will be repealed as soon as the political colour of the nation changes. Moreover, this law is going to have very serious problems with some autonomous communities, and rightly so, to get started. It seems that we have learned nothing from Mr Wert's handling and the problems he has caused. Today you are the champion of dialogue with this proposal. The fact that this law is born dead tells you that I am not happy; I am not happy at all. This would not be serious if it were not because it is the eighth educational law that has been brought to this House since 1978 and because, with your attitude and your bad proposal, you are once again blowing away the possibility of a necessary comprehensive reform that must give stability to the system. You said that, but I want to make a little bit of history. You raised your project more than two years ago, praying that it will pass quickly, as quickly as possible. Please note that for his public presentation, which he took out on Christmas, he left only ten days for allegations to be made. In addition, they focused and directed the debate on two issues that divide and that you were interested in because you were already smelling the election campaign, which was the subject of religion and concertation, and which then, in fact, served as a flag. They won the elections and re-registered their project, but you, like me, know that the law has not passed in this legislature through the mandatory procedures to start their negotiation, as it should; neither that of the State School Council nor that of the sectoral conference, nor even that of the Council of State. It has not done so, it has not done so; it has done so in an earlier period, yes, more than a year and a half ago, with a different Government and institutions and, above all, in circumstances quite different from those we have today. You brought the law to the State School Council on January 8th - January 8th - of the year 2019 and then your project already raised an unprecedented debate in the history of educational laws. It came out of the hair and, moreover, with a serious confrontation and assertions by some counselors, such as that this law marginalized Spanish and was contrary to the Constitution - it is not mine - that it was full of evaluative judgments that did not help consensus and that the teacher had not been consulted. Look for you in the hemerotheque because these statements are from some unions and some non-suspected counselors from my party. Secondly, you took this law to a sectoral conference and it was dictated by a number of advisers who are no longer here today. For example, the councillor of Andalusia, Javier Imbroda, was not at the time and, therefore, has not enacted this law. Moreover, at that time, in some debate we had, I asked him why he had not passed his law through the Council of State to give legal guarantees to such a reform. It is not mandatory, but I would have liked to have done so so that there would be no resources, as has happened with other laws. You are going to answer me that this processing is normatively correct - and I am not going to go back to discussing it - but even if it is normatively correct, with more than 40,000 dead and an educational crisis like we have, ethically and politically it is not. I want to make another consideration with regard to form: this law uses the inlaid technique. Your text makes reform about reform, about reform, generating an absolutely unintelligible maranha You strive to follow in the Logse, which was a good law, but thirty years ago. The world has changed a lot; please get out of there. But aside from the formal question, which is no less in this case, Mrs Celaá, your law provides very few solutions and creates many problems. You have ended up making a diagnosis that is not yours; it is a diagnosis resulting from the consensus we had in that subcommittee and with which, in fact, I can agree. I too want to combat early school leaving and educational failure, but I want to do so by raising the education system and not making up the figures, as you intend to do with this law. I also want to connect the labour market with the education system - it is something that we are being urged to do from international institutions - but I want to do it with a FP that changes the titling system, I want to do it with a FP that connects with entrepreneurs and gives them voice, and I want to do it with a dual FP and connects the company with education. I too want to improve equity, but to improve it we need to work on the issue of socio-economic inequalities, as well as other inequalities, such as territorial inequalities or those given by the personal characteristics of pupils, and this, for example, means strongly supporting special centres. I also want to improve digitisation, but for this we need to have an infrastructure that you have not put in. I also want to improve the languages. I too want to do many of the questions that have been raised, such as reforming the subject of teaching and giving it the position it deserves, with better training and with a better teaching career, but that is not what your law does, because your law has many problems. I could spend all my minutes, but I'll mention some. First of all, his law once again made the delights of nationalism and independence, leaving in the hands of the autonomous communities the percentage of hours to be studied in Spanish. Mrs Celaá, knowing Spanish well is, right now, a passport of the future. Secondly, you lower your arms with the subject of ministerial responsibilities, it is no longer that you do not strengthen the high educational inspection, it is that you want to carry it. Thirdly, with regard to access to education from 0 to 3 - which is very important to us - Mrs Celaá, your project does not bring anything concrete. He says that already, if that, eight years from now. The law does not sufficiently strengthen the core competencies nor does it propose the necessary curriculum improvement that we need at this time. Clearly the important role of the faculty and, above all, with regard to the issue of specific educational needs and special needs, you, no matter how hard you engage, have deeply worried all families, because you want to decapitalize the special centres. The situation of the school system before the coronavirus was already critical. Successive popular governments, but above all socialists, have used education as a currency of change for other issues and have not addressed the serious structural and territorial problems, largely due to the lack of leadership of the ministry. Apart from all these issues, the fact is that COVID has undergone a stress test for the education system. We cannot propose a reform without consensus, without the actors involved, with an - forgive me for the expression - express shambles and in a situation of absolute uncertainty. The pandemic has changed everything and the solution of the urgent, structural and now short-term problem, and not party debates, must be the priority of all, including that of the Government. So we've made a proposal. We have proposed that we do not now touch and that we re-register today the request to reopen the subcommission within the Committee on Education, so that we can open a post-pandemic pact. If you really intend, as you have said, to improve the education system and achieve consensus, you have an alternative: freeze the deadlines for the processing of partial amendments until we reach a minimum agreement on what issues we have to solve and how we have to solve them, technically, in a non-sectarian manner, listening, counting and inviting the educational community, indeed, to make their contributions. You cannot put us in the face of Citizens who are not willing to negotiate, debate or work on this matter. I remind you that it was we, with you at the time, who requested the subcommission. I remind you that we were the last to get up from the table and I remind you that this subcommittee did not go forward because you got up because you supposedly did not have an economic commitment. But not even now, with this law, do they present a solvent economic memory. In Citizens we always want an agreement urgently, but whenever there is the sincere will to do things right, and I malice myself that, at this moment and with this issue, the Government does not have the will. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the VOX Group, Mrs Trias Gil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words in this rostrum to be a reminder to family members who have not been able to say their last farewell to the more than 40,000 people killed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Rest in peace. [[Applauds]] Our parliamentary group is making a full amendment to this bill because it turns its back on freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is not going on today. The educational community is concerned that more than 8.5 million Spanish children and young people have not been to their school for three months and, by the middle of the summer, it will have been half a year without stepping into the schools. You are more concerned about imposing your ideological agenda than about solving the real problems of the educational community. It is not the time, moreover, because there has been a lack of extensive consultations and discussions with the social agencies, organizations and actors mainly affected by a change in the educational project of this stage. In fact, today, in several Spanish cities there are concentrations of citizens representing platforms of special education centers in protest of the processing of this law. What is at stake here is the education of Spanish children. We, as we have said on another occasion, Members and representatives of the Spanish people, have a huge responsibility to give voice, within the framework of constitutional rights, to all those who have voted for us; to give voice to all those parents who, day after day, strive tirelessly to educate our children; a daily task that often comes into collision with what you call gender education. This supposed education is to explain their progress and unbridled ideas about sex and gender to children. [[Rumors]] We oppose it, because many children, precisely because they are children, do not have their heads set on it and because it is an intrusion into the privacy of people. You want to impose on our children, from the earliest age, that supposed sexual, ideological and sectarian education, and you want to do it in an organized, curricular way, as corresponds to a good totalitarian system; with obscene guides that are already being implemented in many autonomous communities. [[Rumors]] We reject it because it is contrary to fundamental principles and rights proclaimed and recognized by the Constitution, in particular article 27.3, which recognizes the right of parents to educate their children according to their own convictions and values. [[Applauds]] I remind you that in the Spanish State there is neutrality and the principle of positive secularism, and not secularism, which is what you promote. This preferential right of parents to choose the education to be given to their children is also reflected in comprehensive international legislation: Article 14.3 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 26.3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, also Article 154 of the Civil Code and even Article 18 of the 1985 LODE. For this reason, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we want to express the following: we are not going to consent to a sexual education of this waste, and even less without the express consent of the parents. [[Applauds]] We will not consent to the sectarian, totalitarian and relativistic indoctrination that wants to impose gender ideology on the consciences of Spanish children and young people. They deserve a lot more! [[Applauds]] We will not consent to disassociate sexuality from affectivity in love, reducing the human to a pure primal and animal instinct. [[Rumors]] We are not going to consent to the corruption and perversion of youth and that of minors by tainting their innocence. [[Applauds]] So, leave our children alone!, and let the children be children; let's see if the younger children will now have to be thinking about child erotic games, as happens, for example, in Navarre. [[Rumors]] A truly inclusive quality education should recognize the gender gap and the different maturity period between boys and girls. What you achieve is that the Spaniards fall into despair by depriving them of the meaning to which they are called by their own nature as human beings. From VOX we want you to understand the following: there is no true education without freedom and there can be no freedom without love, whose fundamental space of development is the family, and it is precisely the family that is the primary and natural sphere of sexual affective development, where values are deployed, virtues are worked and strengths strengthened. The family, which constitutions like the Italian one recognize as a natural society. The family is the fertile ground not to fall into a kind of psychological orphanhood that generates greater uprooting, disorder and disorientation. The reality, however, is that that orphanhood that you yourselves propitiate becomes the fertile ground to become strong and implement your ideological agenda. [[Applauds]] Already entering some specific topics, this bill, unfortunately, accentuates the absence of Spanish in the classrooms of Catalonia, Basque Country, Galicia and Valencian Community. It does not guarantee the minimum hours of Spanish and ignores complaints by associations of parents who defend the right of their children to receive classes in their mother tongue; a language which, paradoxically, turns out to be the official language throughout Spain and which, as stated in article 3.1 of the Constitution, all Spaniards have the right not only to use but also to know. [[Applauds]] There is no mention in this project of this very serious linguistic problem. We also reject this bill because it does not offer a solution, but rather strengthens a system in which state-level rules coexist with autonomous rules, generating more inequality, such as differences in public investment per pupil between autonomous communities, teacher/student ratios, teachers' salaries, investments in infrastructure and, finally, in curricula; these deserve a separate chapter. It is enough to look at the contents of subjects such as Geography and History and see the desire that is placed in certain autonomous communities and textbooks for indoctrination of students for separatist purposes, giving a biased and incomplete view of history, with an unacceptable lack of rigour. Nor does this bill solve the bloody paradox of having a single university district and 17 different evidence of access to university, with the inevitable comparative aggravation that this entails and the injustice that it entails. With regard to the educational concert, we read that schools that apply the principle of co-education and do not separate students because of their gender or sexual orientation will be prioritized, placing serious obstacles to access to public funds of schools that opt for differentiated education. Ladies and gentlemen, it is false to say and induce public opinion to think that there are schools in Spain where students are separated by their sexual orientation. It's being legislated under fallacious propagandistic premises. [[Applauds]] In relation to co-education and differentiated education, Constitutional Court judgement 31/2018 declares differentiated and non-discriminatory education constitutional. In fact, it is a widely recognized educational option at the international level. In addition, the crisis we are experiencing has shown that this bill is late in digital change. Not only is there a digital gap, but there is also a knowledge gap. Likewise, this project is rejectable because it has not made an adequate diagnosis of the reasons why Spain has insurmountable rates of school failure and poor results in external diagnostic tests in stem and determinant subjects, such as reading comprehension and mathematical calculation. This problem, once again, does not come up against and you are striving to equalize the low, rather than promote excellence. [[Applauds]] With regard to vocational training, this bill again loses the opportunity to undertake the necessary reform and not to follow the lines of the Community countries. On the other hand, the concept of social demand that allowed the opening of concerted centres in places where public education had not arrived was eliminated. Not content with this, it is also proposed to empty children's schools with the excuse of integrating children aged 0 to 3 into public schools, causing serious damage to schools that are functioning efficiently so far. And to top it off, they also want to progressively empty special education schools, forcing them to close, exclusively raising inclusive education. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot take over disability. No Government, no platform, no partnership can do that. In addition, this bill deprives the subject of Religion of all academic value and does not even program an alternative subject, violating the international agreement with the Holy See, which provides for the teaching of the Catholic religion in conditions comparable to the other fundamental disciplines. You talk about emotional education, but what you're experts at is emotional manipulation. They use the emotions of good people to achieve their ideological goals, whose ultimate goal is the fragmentation of the person. They steal his sense, his identity, his origin, his memory and his homeland. [[Applauds]] When we legislate from the back to the human nature, as this bill does, what is achieved is greater disconcertingness and disorientation by the necessary loss of sense of identity and self-confidence. This is one of the reasons why this bill, to prosper, is engaged in the most absolute failure, generating greater absenteeism, frustration and school failure. An integral education necessarily implies the recognition of the powers proper to the human spirit and therefore knows that truth and love prevail: the culture of beauty in the face of ugliness, the culture of unity in the face of division, the culture of truth in the face of lies; in short, the culture of life, based on the love that transcends us. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Trias. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Moneo Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have listened to your words very carefully and I must tell you that I am deeply saddened. If, at least, your speech had continuity in the bill that you have undertaken to deal with in this House, perhaps we could have reached some agreement, but, unfortunately - you know it as I do - this is not so. His speech today, near the first quarter of the 21st century, does not correspond to a law that is of the last century. Yes, ma'am, minister, because that is what you want us to support, an outdated, outdated bill; a bill, by the way, already tested and whose harmful effects caused one in four students to be expelled from the education system without any degree. Ladies and gentlemen, only this data is the best justification for asking you, for once, to carry out your work responsibly and return this project to the kitchens of the ministry, from which you should never have left, because this bill, Minister, is going to be a fatal blow to the quality of the education system, from which you will hardly recover. Minister, the most advanced education systems, those that allow students to get the best results, are in the antepods of what you offer us. That the Spanish educational system needs to undergo important transformations is a reality; a reality that we, this parliamentary group, have faced, not being afraid to recognize where the correct ones are and, why not, also the possible errors of the law currently in force that this group supported. We are able to take on those changes that our educational model needs to adapt our students' training to the demands of the so-called fourth industrial revolution. Madam Minister, you who like inheritance and data so much, I will tell you that you have inherited an education system infinitely better than the one inherited from the People's Party government. You have inherited an educational system with the force of this law, the Lomce, to which you are so slightly critical, that you have allowed in our country 9 points less early educational abandonment, that you have allowed 28 306 more teachers within the public education that you defend so much, 120,000 more scholarship students, 140 000 more students who have invested in vocational training, a teacher-student ratio below the European Union at all levels - yes, Minister, at all levels - and an investment in per capita GDP above Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom. What cuts are you talking about, Minister? What cuts? [[Applauds]] The only problem that surrounds this headquarters is that you are afraid of the changes and we don't have it. That is why we sat for a year and a half, with you and other groups, listening to eighty-four leaders in the educational sectors and experts, to achieve a great pact, minister; a pact that only you, only you, broke. While some trusted - we trusted - in their loyalty, you had already designed a road map to appropriate, together with your partners, the government of the nation and, of course, why sit down and negotiate when what I seek is to impose my law? History will write, Minister, the gross apology for devoting 5% of GDP to education as a determinant of the break-up and will also write that the first draft of budgets that your Government made did not include that 5%. But this is past; recent past, but, after all, past, and we want to look to the future. That is why, today, Minister, we still wonder what has happened to them at the time of processing this law; and, above all, if in 2006 we said no to the LOE, how are we going to say yes to a law that is an exact re-edition of the same law? Over these fourteen years the world has changed and you have learned nothing. If I had still brought to this House a different and innovative project that would have aroused the curiosity of those who feel a real passion for education, we would have had something to discuss. That's impossible. Furthermore, Minister, I do not believe that at any time you have wanted to negotiate with us. When a bill devotes its explanatory statement to disqualifying those with whom, at least formally, it needs to negotiate, what it is seeking is confrontation rather than agreement. So take off your face, Minister. This is the law of imposition and obscurantism, the first educational law that does not have an opinion of the Council of State, the law whose amendments we are debating today and that, due to the imposition of the majority of its group, we had to register on 24 April, when more than 22 000 people had died in our country by the coronavirus. That same day, 340 people died. Do you believe, Minister, that it was the right scenario to confront two educational models? It wasn't before, it isn't today. [[Applauds]] I must confess to you that we were tempted not to participate in your disrespectful circus and let you deal alone with this bill, but, surely, that is what you wanted. That is why I am announcing to you, Minister, that this parliamentary group does not intend to steal from the whole educational community one of the most important debates that can take place throughout the legislature. We are not like you and, when this House is complete, when the three hundred and fifty deputies of Congress can occupy their seats, we will put to debate an alternative to your law - yes, Your Honor - for the profound modernization and transformation of the education system. It will be an alternative that will collect each and every input from the experts who came to this House and that will be based on the most contrasting empirical evidence, those that have been applied by the countries of our environment, those who have observed and analyzed how, with a set of appropriate measures, it is possible to achieve the best educational system. Madam Minister, our country now needs more than ever a new impulse, that impulse that you are unable to articulate. What has happened in recent months is a clear example, the lack of leadership of this ministry and its constant improvisation are reflected in how you have faced this health crisis, which has already moved into an educational crisis, because instead of fighting from the very first moment to ensure a return to the classroom with the maximum guarantees, to protect the health of teachers and students, you have looked elsewhere. They have thrown the ball to the autonomous communities, that is, not without first passing an order that contravenes the basic legislation, allows each student to obtain the title in a different way and that hides the message of the general approved. I am not surprised that your law intends to banish the principle of transparency and accountability and renounce to define an integrated model of general evaluation of the education system, because the day that we can objectively assess the impact of this crisis on the education system will see the terrible reality, this terrible reality that will affect those who are always, Minister, the weakest, those students who belong to environments with socio-economic difficulties and only have as their only resource to face their future a good education, an education that you are depriving them of. By the way, modernising the education system is not, or at least is not exclusively, giving each student a tablet, minister; modernising the education system is transforming it from its origin. Where's your digitization plan in the law? I will tell you, in a brief review of the explanatory statement. Because when one deepens in the articulation, he observes the terrible deficiencies in the digital formation of the students from the early stages. For not looking at high school. How will our students not acquire digital skills if you do not establish mathematics as a compulsory subject in the baccalaureate of humanities? Minister, that's your reality. Also in this it is proving that his law is obsolete. That's why they had to patch it up at the last minute and that's why yesterday they approved this Digital Education program. That is true, just for public education, it is not going to be that its government partners get angry, those who believe in an absolutely monolithic education system. Minister, it would take a great deal of time to justify each and every measure that we do not share in this law. But I'm going to explain it to you with clarity on the meridian, you're not going to find us supporting this law. First, because we cannot support a law that devalues the quality and requirement of the education system and destroys the motivation of the students, because it devalues the degrees, because it eliminates the curriculum specialization and autonomy of the centers. A model that drives us away from Europe. Do you know how many countries in Europe have a final baccalaureate test? Twenty-three countries, Minister. A project that weakens the figure of the director of the center and that ignores who constitutes the essential figure of the educational system to undertake any transformation, the teacher. By the way, that you have renounced the educational MIR is a fact, Minister. Therefore, do not try to sell an adulterated model that has nothing to do with the model of excellence that has made our country the best health personnel. A model that renounces the competences of the State in the field of education and, therefore, is inhibited in order to guarantee common teachings and the instruments to ensure them. Article 149.1(a) 30 of the Constitution, Minister: The State has exclusive competence - exclusive competence - in the issue of titles and in the basic rules to guarantee article 27, the right to education and freedom of education; exclusive competence, Minister. But above all it will not count on us because this law presents the rupture of the constitutional pact in the field of education. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, your attempt to cut off fundamental rights and freedoms is more than enough reason for this law to be largely rejected in this House, it is more than enough reason for this group not to support it. I don't know what kind of agreements they've signed to blow up this constitutional pact, but I honestly don't think there's anything that deserves that kind of a hit. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group demands, demands and demands, Minister, that it comply with the Spanish Constitution, that it comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, that it defend and guarantee the freedom of choice of families and the right of parents to choose the educational model and the educational centre where to send their children. [[Applauds]] We demand you, Minister, to remove from your bill the fourth additional provision, because the families you have or have, Minister, some child with disabilities are not second-rate families, Minister, which is how you are treating us. And we value so much more than any family the freedom that the Constitution grants us to choose the best education for our children. And that choice cannot be made by the State, because we are the parents who know better than anyone what our children need. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the habit of freedom, as Galdós wrote, is one of the most difficult habits to acquire. It does not seem difficult to you, but, unfortunately, it is beginning to be impossible. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Moneo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. García. Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u155	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are facing a new missed opportunity. A new law of education, a new opportunity lost. We are the second country in the European Union with a higher rate of school failure, and neither, ladies and gentlemen, are we able to agree. Will society understand yet another failure in the field of education just because the government puts sectarianism before consensus, once again? Today we are debating a law that has not been made to reach agreements, but to indoctrinate, and has been made from sectarianism and against freedom. There are three words that must be present indisputably when it comes to education: the first is freedom, the second is equality and the third is quality. Freedom to choose. What is the role of the government? It has to be to have the best public education possible and, at the same time, to allow anyone to choose it. This is a law that attacks the freedom of choice of parents in choosing the education of their children. It is a law that attacks private, concerted and differentiated education. The second, most important, role that education must play is equality, and that we know very well who from humble families have been able to choose the education we have wanted. That is a fundamental role. Education equals all of us, and everyone has to be able to access education. Thirdly, and it is a word that describes itself, it has to be a quality education. When we have one of the highest rates of school failure, something is failing in the quality of our education. This is a law that turns its back on concerted education, differentiated education, special education, but also on FP, math teachers, physical education teachers, families and, above all, it is a law that turns its back on the future. Mrs. Celaá, do Spain a favor. Remove this law. Sit with the education sector, but also with all political forces, before bringing a text to this House. Let's make a consensus law, because if the Spaniards don't think again that we're not even able to agree on this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Conchi. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if anything has taught us the crisis generated by COVID, it is that citizenship is asking us for great consensus to move this country forward. And of course, education must be one of those great consensuses. 'Together' was his motto, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and I agree. Together with the educational community, the faculty and the administration and services staff who have faced this cover without receiving resources or training for it. Together with parents, who have helped their children without knowing how, without resources in many cases, to teleworking or working in essential services, without having schools or children's schools. And all this has been done without proper educational planning. I remind you, in case you don't know, that in the Canary Islands - ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE - we still have no title in the Board of Education after his counsellor resigned in the midst of the crisis. This stage has left us some great teachings. We need to bridge the digital divide if we want a fairer society. We must generalize child education so that parents - and especially mothers - can work or even telework. Education must be a priority in the face of cuts that - admit it or not - are going to be made this year and the next. All that should be done together, teacher and other staff, parents, political parties; if not, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue as we go. Eight educational laws, this if passed will be a law that will last what you last. And what would it have been for? It is a waste of effort and capacity, a new chaos that will force to change educational schemes that will change again if the Government of Spain changes. But ladies and gentlemen of the PP, neither can you accuse the PSOE of lack of consensus because you have neither sought nor achieved consensus when you have ruled. In Coalition Canaria we are clear, we will continue to trust and support but also to demand an educational law of broad consensus that has the autonomous communities and the educational community, which reflects our singularities. We will continue to demand 5% of the funding that you promised so much for education. This is also the responsibility of the Canary Islands, the EUR 42 million for educational infrastructure which is in the budgets - and which you deny us - and which are now absolutely necessary to adapt the classrooms to the new health needs at the beginning of the school year. Do not forget that the loss of income - in the case of the autonomous community is 35% - will create a limit situation in order to have the necessary educational staff and the classrooms prepared for the start of the school year. I'm done. We will reject these amendments entirely because we do not share them, but we demand an educational law that lasts at least ten years. Please, let's do it together or at least try. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u159	Thank you, Madam President. The experience during these three months of pandemic has left clear evidence that the current educational model and its respective educational systems are not used to respond to the different needs that arise for us and that will continue to emerge in our 21st century societies. Citing Cristian Olivé, we are educating young people of the 21st century, with teachers of the 20th century and in classes of the 19th century. And that is why in the face of the problems and situations created by the COVID-19 both the Spanish educational system and those of Euskal Herria have not been able to respond successfully to the crisis created. Our group, accepting the majority feeling of our educational communities, strongly defends an education as a basic vertebrating and cohesive element of society and health mirror. It must be inclusive, compensating for inequalities and curricularly adapted to the characteristics of students to ensure full academic development. In Euskal Herri Bildu we are in favour and we will collaborate for this where we have some representation in favour of an educational model based on linguistic immersions that educate on the basis of official languages of each territory such as Basque, Galician and Catalan. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the right, our languages attached to identity, no matter how bad they may be. You talk about discrimination and impediment to studying in the language of the vehicle and that as a Navarra I can talk to you a lot. To what extent is the inculturation and political use of a language and cultural heritage of a society by the Navarra right who prefer to deny its history and the cultural value of a language of their own and millennial before taking on the consequences of its recognition. We also advocate a co-educating educational project, with feminist, secular, cohesive, equitable, free and universal pedagogies that educates critical, entrepreneurial, empowered and happy students. All this is reflected in a public system that is community, close, decentralized and autonomous, a new educational model, in short. It has no future to rebuild the past, nor in education. That is why Euskal Herria Bildu believes that the law presented, the Lomloe, is not an instrument that we need to change the educational model, put the needs of the student at the center and advance in the educational rights that as nations we have the different peoples of the Spanish State. The Lomloe proposal has a clear objective that is no other than to replace the current educational law, Lomce. It is an objective that we share from the independentist left, but it does not seem right to us, because instead of looking forward, it brings us back to the LOE, to 2006. But Lomloe does not structurally improve the challenges ahead of us in the next decade. The current model is not fair. The different types of segregation, especially socio-economic segregation, are becoming increasingly evident in our systems. The Lomce emphasizes this and in our communities we know a lot about it. Euskadi is the fourth community, as I told you at the time, with greater social segregation in education according to Save the Children's report and also the current educational model is totally macho. It allows for the continued existence of publicly funded gender-segregated centres, and that is discriminatory, although it does not seem to some and some, even though it is based on pedagogical theories that justify the opposite and despite the fact that the freedom of families is called upon to choose the educational model that is intended to be given to their creatures. We also have evidence of this in the country, in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Nafarroa. The current educational model is androcentric and heterocentric. Women don't exist. In our historical contribution or in the textbooks we are not part of the culture. Moreover, since it is a completely binary system, everything that remains outside the established canons of man or woman does not exist. In this sense, we need the system to be feminist and very high we say we need instruments like Skolae so that the student can be what he wants, aspires, is educated freely without taboos and does not suffer for it. I would like to recall that just now a year ago, on June 14, 2018, we were called to testify before the Supreme Court of Navarra five editors and five tutors of Skolae program for the witch hunt undertaken by the rights related to VOX, which in Navarra it is difficult to distinguish from Navarra Suma, Citizens, PP and UPN. We need programs like Skolae, not devalued, that collect affective-sexual education for the entire student according to every evolutionary moment. We need co-educational policies in the direction of compulsory feminist pedagogies and with sufficient resources to develop them. And what is raised in the lomloe does not take firm steps in this direction, so it is insufficient. In addition to all this, to conclude, the proposed legislation does not contain demands from groups from our totally necessary point of view, such as entities defending minority languages in the State, groups of groups of Roma persons or others suffering discrimination of different types, platforms in favour of a totally secular school, different associations of teachers, such as those of FP, or specialists in artistic branches, trade unions and student associations, among many others. As for the educational competences that the different territories have, it can be said that, although in the status of the Basque Country or the Navarro improvement, it is collected that we have competences in education, the reality is quite different. We have competence only to manage what from the Spanish State, from the organic laws and the real Spanish decrees we are allowed. All the educational laws so far known in the Spanish State have followed the same pattern and Lomloe follows the same path. We therefore want the new law to recognize the democratic right to be able to manage our educational policies in each territory, without prejudice to what is being dictated from Madrid. To conclude, from Euskal Herria Bildu we believe that the Lomloe proposal has great shortcomings and many points to improve and be corrected, both at the strictly educational level and at the competitive level. Lomloe is largely amendable and Euskal Herria Bildu has therefore tabled partial amendments to Lomloe. That is why we are voting against the amendments to the whole of the right because we want to give it a chance in this area too, Madam Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-The rostrum is disinfected by a cleaning worker.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u161	Thank you, President. Look on, minister. Eguardi on, I don't know if Spanish would be the translation between good morning and good afternoon. I don't know what it says in Spanish eguardi on. These are the nuances, the singularities that our language gives us and that I believe we should not lose. It is very important, therefore, that the presence of other official languages also has its role in the educational system. Mrs Martin, Mrs Trias and Mrs Moneo, the position that our parliamentary group will stand for in relation to the amendments you have tabled in their entirety and the reasons why we will have that position are set out in our electoral programme. Our position here is not going to be anything new. All of us, all of us, our political formations are presented to the electoral campaigns with an electoral program, and the Basque Nationalist Party has to fulfill what it is committed to the electorate. I shall therefore confine myself to reading what we have said on the electoral programme concerning Lomce. And it is also important to note that what I will read to you is the first point in the electoral programme with which the Basque Nationalist Party has participated in the last general elections. And we said: EAJ-PNV is committed to working in Lomce, in the need to replace Lomce. We are going to replace Lomce and we are not going to miss any chance we have in front of us to replace a law that we consider to have had harmful effects. A law that has so much harmed - we added - the educational sphere and especially the Basque educational community. This imposes the need to draw up a new law, respectful of the axes that the Statute of Gernika dictates in this matter. Thus, according to its article 16 and in application of the first additional provision of the Constitution, it is within the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to teach in all its extent, levels and degrees, modalities and specialties. It is up to us - it is up to the Basque Autonomous Community - to regulate. The new education law - we added, and that is what we will demand of the Government - should include recognition and respect for that uniqueness and right of Euskadi which enables it to develop, approve and implement laws and its own educational model. We claim to have our own education law, our own educational model. We will also be interfering with Euskadi's competence in this area and will reject the re-centralisation and standardization of education. That is why we will vote against the full amendments that your groups have tabled, because we do not want to lose any opportunity to replace the Lomce and address a debate at the stage of partial amendments, a calm debate with a dialogue vocation, with a negotiating vocation, to improve those aspects that, in our opinion, can improve in line with our educational model. Because Lomce was - and is - a re-centralizing law that broke the linguistic agreements that for thirty years had been woven and had harmful consequences, as we have said; for example, devaluing vocational training, which for us is decisive because of the importance of the link between the education system and the company if you have a very important vocational training. In the process of partial amendments, as we have said, our vocation will be a dialogue to improve that law. If I would like to stop to talk, even briefly, about some aspects that have been discussed and commented on in relation to the Basque educational models and also of Navarra on two specific topics, and I will refer to them because they are those in which we have had responsibilities of government in Navarra and we have responsibilities of government in Euskadi. With regard to co-education, between Mrs Trias' sexual erotic games and Mrs Pozueta's speech, I would like to say that the Skolae programme, a pioneering co-education programme, a reference in many other places, was launched by a Navarro government in Geroa Bai, a coalition to which the Basque Nationalist Party - to which I belong - belongs, and by an education counselor, Maria Solana. Thanks to it, this Skolae co-education programme was launched. The political decision was made by that Government and that co-education programme, which we hope to succeed, was launched. On the other hand, with regard to Euskadi and the educational field, the II Co-education Plan is also under way, which we also wish much success. Therefore, through that line of co-education we must continue to advance boldly. With regard to socio-economic segregation and Save the Children's report, I would like to say that simplifying and addressing the analysis of socio-economic segregation by thinking that only the impact of educational measures will solve this problem is a very simplistic vision, because it must be accompanied by other social and socio-economic measures. But, I will say that all the measures being taken by the Basque Government to combat socio-economic segregation in education are absolutely in line with what was stated in Save the Children's report. They are planning measures, such as changes in the school map in Vitoria; mergers that have been carried out in municipalities with imbalances such as Eibar and Lasarte; changes in the itineraries in Irún and Bilbao; measures more related to access, such as changes in the scheming for the enrollment process; policy of distribution of newly arrived students by the school boards; fight against possible fraud in terms of patterns; compensatory measures - many -, such as educational reinforcement programmes, some of which are part of the Lomloe project; curriculum diversification; complementary schooling for school success; teacher of school reinforcement to balance the linguistic difficulties of newly incorporated students. And all this to combat socio-economic segregation from the educational model. We're aligned with everything the reports are saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, I begin by announcing that we will vote against the amendments, and not because this is our law, which is not, not only because we have important discrepancies in specific aspects - which, in any case, are reflected in the numerous partial amendments of the BNG made to improve the text - but, above all, because no education law that comes out of this Parliament can ever be regarded as ours, because it will not conform to our reality as a nation and to our needs as a people. The BNG - it is known - defends that it is necessary that Galicia assumes and exercises the full capacity to decide on our educational system through a Galician law of education that designs a public, secular and quality educational system adapted to our reality and the needs of social, cultural and economic development on the basis of our potentialities. We are going to vote against the amendments of the right and the extreme right because behind is the commitment of an elitist, confessional and doctrinal teaching model, especially since this obsession for denying the plurinational, pluricultural and plurilingual reality of the Spanish State, or, in other words, for that obsession to deny us the Galicians and Galicians something elementary that the Spaniards here in Madrid, for example, have guaranteed, as it is possible to be educated in our language. Gentlemen of the right ultra-Spanishist, what do you not understand? You claim the right to schooling in your mother tongue and we also claim the right to schooling in our mother tongue. They are still obsessed, as Minister Wert confessed in his day, with education being a Spanish machine. But that is precisely the manifestation of his failure, because only what is not Spanish can be or try to be Spanishized. Allow me - to conclude - to borrow, to qualify these political forces, a phrase from Castile of his Ever in Galicia: 'You are a failed imperialists'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u164	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u165	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I announce to you that from More Country-Equo we are going to vote against all the amendments to the whole, because we understand that in the face of demagogy, pre-potency and prejudice are the facts, and the facts and reality tell us that, after forty years of democracy and seven laws of education, in our country we continue to discriminate for socio-economic reasons and conditions, and reality tells us that a child with little resources has four times more chances of repeating course than another child with the same abilities but with more resources; in that we are at the head, in repetition. In recent years, about 25% of students have not obtained secondary education, and, as in repetitions, abandonment also goes through neighborhoods, and once again the most disadvantaged populations are granted. Repeats have little impact on the highest levels of our society. Is this why you find that this reform is not urgent, because it only affects the most disadvantaged classes? There are several factors, but, of course, the lack of funding, the failure to comply with the rules and the setbacks of LOMCE have been decisive. The facts are clumsy. We must work, work for an agreement, respect competence and coordination with the autonomous communities. Madam Minister, in this context, we will work on the partial amendments, because we want greater coverage at the child stage and give vital importance to vocational training connected with the reconstruction of this country; also to environmental training, inclusion, innovation and dignification of teachers; we will clearly insist on the fight against segregation in enrolment, transparency in public funds and the eradication of illegal quotas; and, above all, we want to restore the wound of cuts with fair funding primarily in public education that has sustained universality and the principles of non-discrimination. This law - I finish already, President - can be a new opportunity that we give ourselves as a country, and that, regardless of the type of family, the rents or their status, the boys, girls and young people in our country really have the same opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Finally, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u167	Thank you, President. Minister, I confess to you that when I woke up this morning I was frankly convinced that we should vote against these three amendments to your bill. But after listening to her partner, the Minister of Public Service, reproaching my partner that we are the ones who always avoid consensus, I thought it was also worth rethinking. We are not going to do this, don't worry, but I have been thinking for a while about this intervention and I recalled that, when this House made a motion of censure to President Rajoy in 2018, my group was next to your group to kick out the People's Party government, and when you introduced a bill a year ago to improve the educational quality and working conditions of teachers, which came out of the hair, my group was next to you to pull out that initiative, because it seemed fair to us, it seemed to us to vote for it. Where we have not been it has been in the initiatives where you ask us to vote for you for free, as in the last investiture. But if we go to today, Minister, of the eight parliamentary groups that this House has that are not part of the government, three - not one or two, three - have tabled an amendment to their entire bill. My group has not, but not because we share the whole meaning of this initiative, because you know we disagree in many things. In spite of that, despite not presenting any amendments to your whole initiative, you come here and accuse us of being the ones who do not seek consensus, of being intransigent. And it is that to your way of understanding the consensus we cannot give in, because you only understand the consensus if it starts with our concessions, to give in to your ideas, to give up our ideas, to our way of understanding in this case the education to embrace yours; if we do this there will be consensus, if we do not, there will be no consensus. You know what our red line is, minister. Our red line is the Llei d'Educació de Catalunya, which, by the way, had the support of its group in 2009 in the Parliament. And defending the Llei d'Educació de Catalunya means defending the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya and linguistic immersion. These two things are essential for us in any bill that takes place in this House. We will defend them and protect them from any clashes that may come to these two initiatives, because for us they are key to defending the educational model of Catalonia. Do it, minister, because the law of the Catalan Parliament was passed in 2009 with 80% of the votes in favour, and you today do not have a majority to take this bill forward. Make numbers, come and look for us, let's talk, let's talk, let's give in, because in this we don't have to give in to us, let's give in to you too. So, there will be consensus and there will be law, because repealing the Lomce - you know, minister - is not an option, it is a necessity, and that is where we are too. Thank you very much. We are at your disposal whenever you want to speak, negotiate and agree.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u169	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. The Spanish right-wing have a bold view of education. They conceiv the teacher as a sergeant who, from a vertical and authoritarian concept of order and discipline, forces the student to memorize contents, to carry with exhausting duties, to undergo continuous tests, to establish a system of punishment for the dissociates. They conceive of education from the perspective of order and command and the letter with blood enters. They are nostalgic of the education of The Florido Pensil, of the Visigothic kings, of the epic of Viriato and the conquerors, of the Swedish gymnastics, of the crowning of the tables of multiplying and the rose rose. They are nostalgic from another era and dream of classes with crucifixes and the king's photo. And the deputies of VOX and a few of the PP also dream of Franco's picture accompanying that of the king. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The Spanish right-wings maintain a primordial view of education, which does not marry the challenges of the 21st century. A vertical educational system based on dogmatism, memorization, pond compartments and authoritarian discipline runs counter to the society of the future that values creativity and flexibility for adapting to technological and productive challenges. The educational system must encourage curiosity to learn, love of knowledge, creativity, freedom of thought and critical ability, because that is the basis for creating motivated, entrepreneurial and innovative minds, and knowledge such as the Arts or Philosophy are basic to configure these free and creative minds. It is particularly important in the face of technological challenges for the sustainability of the planet and the need for a radical change in economic, productive, social and human relations, as we have seen in the mirror that COVID-19 has put before us. It is essential to forge citizenship educated in democracy and human rights. In the face of sexism, a feminist school that stops invisibility of women in history, in literature and in science. In front of LGTBIphobia, a respectful school that overcomes dogmas, like that all boys have penis and all girls vulva, and that respects and normalizes all gender identities and sexual orientations. Faced with racism and xenophobia, an inclusive school that recognizes that we are all equal in rights and opportunities. In the face of authoritarianism, a school that defends chair freedom, freedom of expression and critical spirit. In short, we want a school, as the Catalan school defends, to be a tool of socialization and civic, democratic, inclusive and humanistic education; a school that believes free citizens, as a primary condition for creating a free society. But that is not the claim of the Spanish right-wings. The former Minister of Education, José Ignacio Wert, made his ideological concept of education very clear by stating that his objective was to Spanishize Catalan children. His claim is to end the linguistic immersion, to end the Catalan school. His concern is not educational, but ideological, and his ideology is the national Catholic, that of one, large and free. And from this imperialist and supremacist ideology they insult thousands and thousands of Catalan teachers who do not congregate with their Spain, that Spain that they want to transmit to girls and boys through school. You don't care about knowledge, training or innovation, you need to impose your concept of Spain. They do not care about the psychological and emotional health of boys and girls, they care about order, discipline, rehabilitation and results. They don't even care about the numbers of failure and school dropouts, because they're already going to have an army of ignorant people, cheap labor, canyon meat, they're going to have empty brains to fill with their simplistic xenophobic, racist and homophobic slogans. However, every drop-out and every school failure is a failure of society. Are you aware of how much talent and how much potential a society loses among those you call failed? They are not interested in failure, nor are they interested in culture, training and innovation. They are interested in Spain, Spain, Spain, as a concept, as a flag. If there is no decent education law in the Spanish State, it is because in Spain there is no right that is interested in education, and, unfortunately, if ever the left - I am finishing - has been brave enough to try to overcome the vertical concept inherited from the Franco school has not been able to invest the opportune in education. They have preferred to invest in arms and the businesses of companies more interested in influencing the BOE than in having a society of talent and competitiveness. Spain would require a constituent process to overcome the ubiquitous regime of 1978. As long as I don't do this process, education won't be a priority. On the contrary, thousands and thousands of teachers...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u170	Mrs. Bassa, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u171	I'll be done right away, President. In contrast, thousands and thousands of teachers in Catalonia dream of a constituent process that builds a republic that re-establishes society as a whole and where education is a key tool for having a cultured, progressive, innovative, inclusive and feminist society, to face the challenges of the future from a free and democratic society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u173	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Honestly, I have to admit that at some moments of this intervention I seem to be listening to the character of Aunt Lydia of The Servant's Story. I recommend that the VOX deputy see this series, because it's very interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the LOMCE, a retrograde, re-centralizing and mercantile law passed by a minister whose name I do not want to remember; a law that has gone against the educational community, in general, and against the public school, in particular; a law that today we have the opportunity to leave forever in the drawer of the failed projects of the lost decade of the governments of the People's Party. [[shows a document]] In this Congress of Deputies there is a great consensus in educational terms, and it is that we must repeal the Lomce without wasting time. Well, that's exactly what LOMLOE is about. This coalition government, as has been shown, despite the often unbearable noise of the right, fulfils its commitments. I would also like to take advantage of this debate to thank all the educational staff for the immense effort they have made during this crisis of the coronavirus. Thanks to the dedication and commitment you have had, too often without resources, to prevent the school year from being interrupted, and the long working hours to prevent any student from being left behind. [[Applauds]] Today we are beginning to settle a political debt, but we still have to settle an economic debt with our public school, which will have to be addressed in the budget debate. I have made it clear from day one: the more this government advances in rights for the social majority, the more decibels of right-wing noise will increase. But we must remain calm and firm, because that noise and hatred are nothing but the powerlessness of knowing that they do not have a democratic majority that supports them either within or outside the Congress of Deputies. You have been defeated electorally, but the most important thing is that you have also been defeated socially. Today we are doing nothing more or nothing less than turning those cultural victories into law. It passed with the minimum living income, which today supports more than 80% of the Spaniards, and it is happening today with LOMCE, thanks to the mobilization of the educational community, and it will pass with the solidarity tax to millionaires, who already support two out of three Spaniards, and it will also happen, as happened with Gürtel and the People's Party, that the institutions will not be able to continue to turn their backs in the midst of the crisis to the reign of corruption. These measures are dismantling the State from the inequalities that the three right-wings had projected. Certainly, your card castle falls as quickly as Mrs. Ayuso's lies about the residences. That impotence smells in the three amendments to the whole People's Party, Citizens and VOX. Citizens, sincerely, have worked on it, has tabled an amendment to the whole founded, that is, in your usual mantras, on the need for social demand - which has proved unfair -, the persecution of the Spanishman in Catalonia - you are again telling a Spanish language teacher who was born in Sabadell - or, for example, your superior mantra on the high educational inspection. Your amendment, Mrs Martín, once again shows that our electoral programmes are incompatible and that one thing is the health crisis and the other is social and economic reconstruction. Precisely because it is our political agenda - it is like water and oil - I thank you all the more for having given a lesson in responsibility to your VOX and Popular Party partners. The PP amendment, frankly, has disappointed me. They are literally three folios where nothing is said but vagueness. It is also true that it is the faithful reflection of the People's Party of Mr Casado and Mrs Álvarez de Toledo. [[Applauds]] Indeed, this amendment by the Group of the European People's Party is a very Cayetan amendment, the truth is: tell me what the Government thinks, which I will say the opposite and two more cups. But the amendment that hit me the most was that of VOX. I strongly recommend to your ladies and gentlemen that you read it, because it has no waste. If I have time, I will read you four parts of the amendment. First, in justification they bring up a battery of vague and imprecise concepts, such as quality, equity and culture. For VOX culture is a vague concept. Now we understand perfectly what they were saying about puppeteers. In another fragment you say that the bill is at the service of the progressive consensus of neo-communist orientation, more typical of Cuban and Venezuelan dictatorships. You without Cuba and Venezuela are nothing - by the way, the two countries of South America with greater access to public education -. And with regard to the third fragment, you say that this is a demagogic law at the service of totalitarian and sectarian ideologies in an attempt at ideological indoctrination of gender. Well, it has failed you to say that school failure is also the fault of the March 8 mobilizations, such as the COVID-19. By the way, you have had to swallow the lies, because justice has archived each and every one of your lies. [[Applauds]] To this I call the far right pure and hard; it is true that harder than pure many times. It has failed you to say, like Tolkien, that this law is a ring to govern us all, which is probably for what you want education for. Minister, now we have the opportunity to incorporate into this law all those valuable amendments that have made to us from the educational community. For the United Nations There are five fundamental elements. First, the law has to shield the public school as the backbone of our education system, the public is the one that best guarantees social cohesion and equal opportunities. We must end the cuts of the People's Party, strengthen the working conditions of teachers, give a way out to long-term interns and incorporate new professional profiles, such as mentors, psychopedagogues, watchmen or social educators. Secondly, this law must make education truly inclusive, a school for all and for all. Third - and I conclude, President - the effects of COVID-19 have put education in front of us in the mirror: we have seen weaknesses, but also potentialities, and that has to be incorporated into the law. Fourthly, we must take a giant step to ensure that from zero to three years is an educational stage like the rest of the stages, a full educational stage. And fifthly, this law also has to do with education in respect for human rights, starting with the rights of LGBTI people and affective-sexual freedoms, which are no obscenity, spokeswoman of the People's Group. And I'm done, President. The teacher Maria Montessori said that the first task of education is to shake life, but leave it free for development. And that is precisely what the right-wings are afraid of, that the social majority of this country, the sons and daughters of the working workers can think for ourselves and develop. With this law we have an opportunity, because education must be a reflection of the society we want to build. And what we want...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u174	Mr. Mena, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u175	I'm done, President. What we want is a society with more equal opportunities, because that, ladies and gentlemen, is the indispensable condition of freedom. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u177	Thank you, Madam President, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, calm down a bit. It seems a lie that we're debating an educational law. I believe that the millions of students, families and teachers who are part of the education system would have appreciated a more calm debate, more focused on education and more realistic in the times ahead. Talk about education, because that's what it's about. Since 2013, Mrs Moneo, since the People's Party imposed - it imposed - the Lomce with its absolute majority, without dialogue, without consensus, without parliamentary support, most political parties are calling for a change of law; a change of law with which there is no problem, Mrs Martín, because education has to adapt to the needs of society and one cannot pretend to have a law based on the past and that it does not advance in the future, which seems to the right-wing: to remain settled in the past, that our children and our young people do not have the learning opportunities that Lomce has extracted from them, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause]] So let's move on, let's move on to the future, let's think of a future model that's what LOE does bring to the education system. And they don't lie, they don't lie, because, first, they're throwing bubbles at special education. But how many times do we have to say that the special education centres are not going to be closed so that the right wing, the VOX and the People's Party can stop repeating it all the time? And they do not lie either, because this law has passed through all the preceptive procedures, for all, in its first phase, and in the second phase they did not need. [[Applauds]] But, in case it's little, this law is the one that's been on public display the longest. We must remind them that this law was already registered more than a year ago and that it fell because we had to go to elections. Therefore, all of you have had more than enough time to study it, to analyse it, and at least to read it, because there is a parliamentary group that I fear has not even done the duties. [[Applauds]] Look, we have nine extensions of the deadline for tabling amendments that have allowed hundreds of educational organizations and collectives to contribute to enriching the law, which have allowed you, ladies and gentlemen, to work decisively to contribute something that is truly significant in the educational model that we want for the future. But what turns to the right is that with the LOE the end of that ideological, segregating model begins, which subtracts learning opportunities, and finally, with the Lomloe we see the beginning of the end of the dark tunnel to which Lomce has subjected us for more than seven long years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Martín, they are settled in the past. Go on, because they cannot claim that the educational model of the future is based on a model of functioning of a subcommission that has failed in the past. Let us not go back to the same thing, Your Honor, and let us think in the future, that for that there is a bill and the deadline is opened so that, through amendments and contributions, something positive and constructive can be done for Spanish education. Man, we expected more than the four mantras to which Mr Mena referred and which have been introduced in the amendment as a whole. We already know that they like the confrontation between territories, that they like the confrontation between languages, that they also like between public education and the concerted education, but no, Your Honor, here there is no struggle between public education and the concerted education; what it is about is to put an end to certain privileges of certain concerted education, of certain concerted education, and to rebalance both networks in the educational system that were completely broken by the introduction of the Lomce. [[applause]] What is at Lomloe, ladies and gentlemen, is a project for the future for children's education. What is in Lomloe is a project for teacher training, initial and continuing. What is in Lomloe is an advance in curriculum development, in the autonomy of the centres, in the digitisation of the centres, in a competitive and more personalized learning, in enhancing and strengthening the vocational training that is so necessary for our economic and labour model. What is in Lomloe is a project of education in values, affective-sexual education, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. What's wrong with affective-sexual education? What is the problem with gender equality? What is the problem with environmental education? What is the problem with modernization? [[Applauds]] Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come They assume that society, our society, must be modern, plural, democratic and willing to move forward. That is what must appear in an educational system, because it is what represents the whole of our society, ladies and gentlemen, and that is what must be introduced into the educational system, so that our children can see the whole of the Spanish reality and not that reality that you claim, which is simply based on your exclusive and exclusive concept of what education has to be. They speak of the lack of ideological freedom in this law, but what they seek is to introduce their ideological concept and impose it on the rest of society in the educational system, and that, of course, this parliamentary group will not allow. [[applause]] Nor do we agree with that model of family, the only model of family that they intend to establish and generalize, because there is more than one model of family in our society and all children have the right to know what is happening around us. Therefore, I really ask you to look to the future, because more than an amendment to a law of the twenty-first century in its entirety, it seems that you have tabled an amendment to a law of the twentieth century in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen, move forward, move forward, open your mindset to the changes that are required in education. And from the People's Party, what are we going to say? They have tabled an amendment that I believe has caught them without having the duties done. They had announced a replacement amendment and presented three sad follies, with a single paragraph that did not even raise arguments, neither educational nor pedagogical. They're talking about a need for curriculum reform. Well, read the law, that's it. They talk about the need for an evaluation of the education system. Well, read the law, there is. That's right, an assessment without revalidation and without rankings, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I would ask you, instead of making the paper you have done with the education law, to work a little longer and to make contributions, that at this stage in which we are going to find ourselves in the coming weeks you bring something educational, something that implies an advance in Spanish education, and at least let those people see that you also represent that education interests them, not as you have shown with this amendment to the whole, that of course it is absolutely empty of content.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u178	Mrs. Martinez Seijo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u179	I'm done. For us, education undoubtedly means laying the foundations for our society and for our future. You have to believe her and take her very seriously. However, what we have seen in the amendments on the right is far removed from that concept. From now on they have the opportunity to add, to build, to contribute, to help improve the educational system. In this you will find the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u181	Discussion of the proposal for a law repealing the maximum time limit for investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and for the defence of the amendment, I have the floor introduced by Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The investigation has a deadline. With these words was presented in 2011 by the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Caamaño, the preliminary draft of a new Criminal Prosecution Act that was frustrated by the early dissolution of the Chambers. On this team was Secretary of State the current Minister of Justice. In this preliminary draft articles 481 to 483 incorporated what we may well consider to be the antecedents of article 324 of Law 41/2015. What has changed, then, for the Socialist Party to reject so intensely this precept consistent with its reform proposal? It is obvious that the reform was done by the People's Party. His argument of authority is: overthrow everything that comes from the People's Party, perversely arguing it with showy but false justifications. They'll tell me that's not the case, because everyone's opposed to a deadline for instruction. Ladies and gentlemen, please, that is a simplification. Has the reform been peaceful? No, it's true. Do you know many legal reforms that are peaceful? I assure you that very few and, moreover, consensus is not a guarantee to find the approval of either all lawyers or citizens. Do you think there is unanimity in the proposal for a criminal investigation led by the prosecutor's office? There isn't. The controversy exists, it comes from afar and will remain. Rivers of ink will still be written wondering some why we continue with a patched and old penal procedural law and a model that does not serve. Here is the answer: resistance to change has become a fetish to block capital reforms in the criminal process. Therefore, Podemos' position is contrary to the PSOE's approaches to criminal investigation, because Podemos defends that criminal investigation in Spain does not have to have deadlines. That is true, when it harms those who are interested in you, you will denigrate a judge or a prosecutor, you will disallow the work you do and you will call civil disobedience. And this, ladies and gentlemen, only leads to chaos, to distrust of our justice system and to doubting the seriousness and solidity of our democracy and of our rule of law. Nothing strange in a party that combats the current Constitution and denies with its proposals that article 24 of the Constitution enshrines a process without undue delay. It's not an obsession with PP or a Spanish whim. The rarity, ladies and gentlemen, will be to step back irresponsibly with the elimination of deadlines in criminal investigation. The demagogy used - curiously, or not, from the most opposite poles of the House - has been infinite and will continue to be so after he leaves the rostrum. I wish I was wrong. The objective facts show that neither the legal rigour nor the defence of constitutional principles such as the presumption of innocence, the process without delay and the dignity of the victims are behind this commitment of the partners of a so-called progressive government. There were a number of political groups who pointed out as a defect of the proposed law in the process that article 324 could not be repealed at this point without any temporary reference. However, when they have had to go into the process of amendments, we note that they have ignored their own warning, except in the case of the Plural Parliamentary Group, as I will immediately comment. The amendment to the whole that we are presenting responds consistently to the conviction that an indefinite, timeless and timeless criminal investigation cannot be defended by 2020. Therefore, we present an instrument that allows us to improve a rule that we continue to consider opening the way to an updated model of instruction. We do so by offering a proposal, among the possible ones, to correct dysfunctions warned in the communication of the situation of the investigation or in the causes that may motivate the extension of the deadlines, following suggestions made by different professionals and, in particular, the one expressed by the Attorney General's Office since 2016, which explicitly collects Maria José Segarra in the memory of 2019, where they describe the main lines of a reform proposal sent to the Ministry of Justice, because, in the opinion of the prosecution, it is aware of the need to expedite criminal investigations without diminishing any of its usefulness or the rights of the parties. To this end, it proposes a new time control model, which consists of setting an initial time limit, the possibility of extension, the clear establishment of criteria for calculation and the setting of a ceiling. Does that ring a bell, ladies? It does not differ from the current architecture of 324. We are surprised that the Minister of Justice rejects this proposal and misses this opportunity offered by the current parliamentary procedure to bring back to reasonable terms the abrogations of his partner of government, and this is inferred from the absence of amendments by the Socialist Party offering that alternative of the Prosecutor Segarra. Citizens and VOX, who argued that the derogation could not leave this matter without deadlines, have put forward very similar proposals of absolute indefinacy that consolidate a proposal of unlimited deadlines. The PNV, which also referred to this issue, has not tabled any amendments, and it is only the Plural Group that is consistent with Mrs Borràs, who makes a surprising proposal. After hearing for so long that the popular reform inexhaustibly limits the limitation periods, they set a maximum of six months incontrovertible, when the current tenor of the evil reform of the People's Party allows extensions of up to three years, a maximum period that could exceptionally be extended. It is necessary to know exactly these objective data so that when the focus is extinguished the scope of so much demagogy is well understood. As González Cuéllar said recently explaining the true origin and reasons that led to the 2015 reform, the legal system cannot be abstracted from time. Surprised to see how most of you have managed to convince yourselves that you are telling the truth and not. I am sure you have not consulted with the government delegate in Madrid, Mr Franco, who would quickly convince you otherwise. He knows well what an agile, rigorous, independent investigation means, despite all the heavy artillery prepared by the government to interfere in the judicial investigation. He has already verified that his best guarantee was in the investigating magistrate acting under the protection of 324 in time and form, promptly, without excuses and guided only by what has to be guided by criminal proceedings. Is the writing of the current 324 perfect? Probably not. Look at how imperfect the 1995 Criminal Code is in the area of sexual assault, but things are not resolved with its elimination. Can you imagine that as a remedy to the shortcomings of the Criminal Code in sexual assaults, the proposal was to repeal these precepts without alternative? Barbarity, isn't it? This is also the case with the repeal of the limits without alternative to the time limits for investigation. This amendment as a whole seeks to offer improvements by gathering constructive criticism and could be improved with contributions if you would like. Make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not, you will be making it easier for our criminal proceedings to turn around to allow for some sort of foresight investigation prohibited in our system. If we join with this that Podemos convinced the PSOE to abdicate its convictions and agree for the investiture that will change the system of access to the judiciary thus facilitating the principle stated in its first electoral program to get judges who act in harmony with the ideology of the Government, they will see that this reform is not innocent. And I am addressing those parties far from defending something like this so that they can reflect a little more, because with their support for this reform and not for our amendment they will act as necessary co-operators in the planned attack on the powers of the state found in the DNA of the governing partners of Pedro Sánchez, with the passiveness of the Socialist Group. And this, Your Honor, we must not accept; time, deadlines, demand a little more effort from all of us, it is true, but it is worth a greater demand for work from all if the result is a more agile and fairer criminal process. It would be inconceivable if they did not accept what we proposed to them after what is envisaged in this matter by the preliminary draft Caamaño, now taken up by Minister Campo. If the PSOE continues with its follow-up to Podemos' plans, the proposal for a new Criminal Prosecution Act will have been fatally injured. The absence of time limits, ladies and gentlemen, harms the innocent and benefits the guilty, do not forget. When they leave Congress they try to look at their socialist comrades, thirty-nine, who for ten years had to endure the negative consequences of their imputation in the Astapa case, in Andalusia, but who were exculpated. Or ask Congressman Baldoví what it feels like when an investigation such as the one he has suffered prolongs in time by pointing him out, and that he has finally risen without prosecution but with a very long time for whom, like him, he was not guilty. I don't talk to you about multiple examples of people linked to the PP who went through the same situation for years and were finally disputed or acquitted, because their double measuring rod we suffer every day. But think, at least, of all the anonymous citizens we owe ourselves, because they are all opening up a path that we thought we had already abandoned. That will be the real legal uncertainty. Much has been said about legal insecurity, but that is what generates the mistrust of having a state attorney general like Dolores Delgado, who wanted to do in his post what he did not do from the Government, a correcting interpretation of a rule whose drafting is much better, Royal Decree-Law 16, in relation to the procedural deadlines suspended during the state of alarm. We have been amazed at an attempt to become an emergency legislator to determine that all procedural deadlines were beginning their calculation at zero, an unqualified and arbitrary action that was denounced by the prosecutors themselves. It is not played with the beginning of the process without undue delay. You don't play with the prestige of prosecutors. True insecurity is to continue to stop annoying state lawyers but to keep a discredited attorney general. Insecure are the silences of the Minister of Justice in the attacks of the Vice-President Churches against the judges or when he does not disallow the purges of the Ministry of the Interior to those who refused to interfere in a judicial investigation. These silences have first caused us strangeness and then concern by saying the minister here that there is an open constituent debate. The Government, with its silence, is contributing to an attack on the powers of the State. Why can the minister defend the army and the minister of justice doesn't defend the judges? We demand clarity, minister. Your job doesn't allow everyone to be content. It has to go against attempts of aggression, because if we do not understand that it was not a lapsus of his and that Pedro Sánchez is directed by those who want a new constitutive project, dismantling the constitutional consensus of 1978. I conclude, Madam President. The loss of objectivity in the delimitation of the duration of the instruction, if it is consumed, what it wants to do We can with the consent of the PSOE and the necessary cooperation of the other groups - do not forget, whatever the reasons that lead them to support the derogation - will be difficult to understand it by citizens who suffer undue delays. When they ask who was responsible, that day they will remember that they abandoned the option of legislating well for the benefit of the Spaniards by scratching a headline or a vote. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Moro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos is the author of an initiative that contradicts the new normality acquired half a year ago, after joining the caste through the Council of Ministers. You arrived almost five years ago at the General Courts wasting large doses of demagogy. They now return to their origins with a proposal for a law that does not by far help to solve this great problem of our institutions and judicial bodies, which is nothing other than the lack of human and material means, the origin of the slowness of the procedures, singularly, in the persecution and prosecution of the crimes. Now that they occupy a place in the blue bank, before proposing the repeal of the maximum time limit for investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act, they should have sought to provide resources to correct the under-staffing of means, which, paradoxically, you denounce in the explanatory statement of your own parliamentary initiative, recriminating the legislator of the past having shortened the time limits of investigation without increasing the means available to the courts. However, beyond increasing these means and resources, far from maintaining the deadlines, what they propose is the setback to the previous legal situation, as a great solution to all the evils of the reform of article 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act in 2015. In his demagogic exhibitionism, in his desire to teach others lessons, it would be wise for the United bourgeois to review article 6.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights and article 24.2 of our Constitution, which establish the right of every citizen to have a trial within a reasonable time. This cannot remain at the dawn of what each examining magistrate decides, but must have a legal framework to regulate it. That is so, with the flexibility conferred on it by Law 41/2015, in order to prevent such a restriction from benefiting the persons investigated. It should be recalled that the purpose of the legislator in the reform carried out by the General Courts in 2015, already at the end of the 10th Legislature, was precisely to promote greater agility in the justice system, avoiding that those who are finally convicted may benefit from the application of the mitigating circumstance of undue delay, which is set out in article 21.6 of the Criminal Code; a mitigating factor which is extremely unfair, since the reduction of the sentence is not due to proactive behaviour by the defendant, as can be the case with reparation for damage or confession, but which ends up being rewarded by the negligence of the Administration of Justice, which, on the other hand, is also an anomaly for the law of the justiciable. For those who are a regular part of the environment of the courts and are very familiar with the office of the Administration of Justice, it is known that no relevance or risk of impunity has the course of the said deadlines, provided that it is diligently operated by the investigating judge of the prosecutor's office. In this regard, the Criminal Code makes it clear to the public in its article 21, which expressly states in paragraph 8 that in no case shall the mere expiry of the maximum time limits laid down in this article lead to the filing of proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to an exhibition of demagogy, the UN initiative We can reflect a certain tendency to comfort. You are sweetening yourself, you have succumbed in record time to the law of minimal effort and you are going to make it comfortable, rather than proposing from the Council of Ministers, in which you occupy five seats, measures to correct the lack of means. In order to avoid delaying the deadlines, they have opted for parliamentary pyrotechnics to see if it fits, which gives me yes, that it will collate. You have succumbed to the option of choosing between a possible amendment to section 324 of the most ambitious Criminal Prosecution Act, but which would force the Government to resolve the situation you yourself denounce of under-staffing. That is to say, they have retired in comfort, in that of 'running the water' or 'pulling out', that they deliver' and choose not to solve the problem and that justice delay in instructing what it deems appropriate and continue in the scarcity of means. Between the possibility of returning to its previous writing and leaving everything as it was, United We can invite us, through its proposal of legislative repeal, to the comfort that life remains the same, as Mr. Iglesias - Julio, not Paul - sang with great success. With this proposal, we sell United We can damaged goods that I refuse to support. And I conclude my intervention with a reflection as a question, if the reform of article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, operated by Law 41/2015, does not bring benefits for those accused of non-compliance with the time limits, but their repeal leads to the violation of fundamental and constitutional rights, as well as the application of mitigating circumstances of criminal responsibility, why are the time limits not maintained, but they are made more flexible? The answer is easy: in order not to leave in the hands of the Government the solution to the great problem of justice, the provision of adequate human resources and materials in accordance with the times, an acute evil after the arrival of Pedro Sánchez two years ago to the Government. [[The lady]] Of course, such a problem would make it clear that in the field of justice too, the government of unknown progress is, ladies and gentlemen, another bluff. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u185	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u186	Thank you very much, President. This is the second time that we have had a full debate after three considerations, in different legislatures, of the proposed law repealing the maximum time limit for criminal investigation provided for in article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, following its drafting given by the controversial Law 41/2015. Now, as I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again debating an amendment to the whole with an alternative text that is articulated in front of the proposed law amending the aforementioned 324. The People's Parliamentary Group resubmits - as it did at the end of 2018 and we discussed in February 2019 - the virtually same amendment to the whole with alternative text. On that occasion we did not give our support to the amendment, both because it was formulated finalizing the legislature and because it had been obstructing and blocking, together with Citizens, the process of the 324 reform with more than 63 extensions for almost two years. Now this amendment to the whole will also not count on our support, but for reasons other than those of the past. At the present time, when the substance of this amendment is presented to the whole also in the form of an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, we believe that the rejection of this amendment which we are debating does not circumvent the debate on the alternative text which it contains, which will take place together with the rest of those tabled by other parliamentary groups, without having to exclude one or the other. We trust that a more balanced text can emerge from this contrast of views only if one of the proposals is worked on. And also a text more in line with the direction of the investigation in the criminal proceedings provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act. When we refer to a more balanced text, we logically refer to the periods of instruction that take us away from the eternal and unlimited instructions - as we have always defended in this rostrum all the times we have taken into consideration and discussed aspects relating to 324 - which, as has already been said, violate the fundamental right to a process without delay - referred to in 24.1 of the Constitution and in the European Convention on Human Rights - and which are also removed from the principle of legal certainty and from the prohibition of the arbitrariness of public authorities. Instructions with unlimited time inevitably give rise to the follow-up of general causes or - as the spokesman of the People's Party has said - prospective investigations. With more balanced texts, we also refer to periods of investigation that bring us closer to realistic and reasonable deadlines, which also do not give rise to a relatively easy impunity of the author, and lack of guardianship of the victim and of the general interest. In short, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group believes that there can be no unlimited prerogatives of the public authorities in a democratic state over citizenship, as would be the instructions of unlimited time, on the sole consideration of the investigating court, nor can there be any general causes that this action without adequate time, if it is to fall, as I have already stated on some other occasion in this rostrum, in a materially police state, in our view unacceptable. Nor is it the other way around, falling within peremptory deadlines of impossible compliance that are conducive to widespread impunity in the most complex causes. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u188	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, again up here to talk about section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act. It's marmot day again. I've been involved in politics for a very short time and I've been up here three times to talk about Article 324. [[The Lord]] I would like to remind you that this initiative was presented at the time by the Socialist Group, and now we see the initiative presented by the United Nations. We can, but my parliamentary group has already presented it in a more ambitious law, which precisely sought to establish a comprehensive plan to combat corruption, and precisely at the end of this plenary I will also defend that proposal for a law which my group resubmits to the comprehensive fight against corruption, and which also provides for the repeal of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act. It was indeed the reform of Mr.Catalá, in 2015, that drafted article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and it was drafted or proposed at a time when the investigation was taking place, and I directed that instruction on behalf of the State's Advocate, of the Gürtel case. Without any kind of blush, it was proposed to reduce the time limits for criminal investigation in a case that had begun in February 2009. I was personally in February 2009, although the case began the previous year, being declared secret. A law in the 10th Legislature that ended with Law 41/2015, which was called the expediting of criminal justice and strengthening of procedural guarantees, which could have been called the jamming of accusations and strengthening of impunity. Look, the regulation that was established, that exists, that is currently in force, is a regulation that sets a maximum time limit for the development of criminal investigation of six months. No criminal case can be heard in six months. And let's not talk about the justice of the rich or the poor, it's that no criminal cause for those who have worn the robe for many years knows that it can be taught in six months, as if it were not, if any, a flagrant robbery or a fight of neighbors. The instructions can be extended for another eighteen months by filling the court with papers, because the parties and the prosecutor's office must be heard and an express order of extension issued, as are the courts without material or personal means, because for forty years neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party have invested in justice. It is therefore an absolutely critical and absolutely criticized reform. Oh, well, no, for the defense lawyers, no, the defense attorneys are delighted. It is the accusations, the Attorney-General's Office, the public lawyers of autonomous communities and municipalities, the prosecutor's office and the investigating judge who criticize precisely these procedural deadlines. It is said here, it has been said by the People's Group and also by Forum Asturias, that we are entitled to a public process without undue delay for all Spaniards. Of course, and there are solutions precisely to correct a process with delays, such as the mitigating of undue delays, in relation to the sentence, or even a procedure of property liability for abnormal operation of the Administration of Justice, which is provided for in the Organic Law of the Judiciary. But the solution to the delay, with the policy of means that we have in the courts, is not impunity, it cannot in any way be impunity for those who have committed serious crimes. The case may be extended for eighteen months when the case is complex. And what are the complex causes? So look, precisely - what a coincidence! - at the corruptions that were persecuting the People's Party when it launched the reforms, but also, why not say, those that have persecuted other political parties in this House: the Socialist Party, with the EREs - imagine, if within six months, which could be extended for eighteen months, the culprits could have been punished -; the PNV, in the Miguel case; the Convergence i Unió, in the Pujol case. And what we set out as a legislative solution is impunity for all these cases? In the Gürtel case there were countless rogatory commissions with countries that did not want to give us the information, including, for example, Switzerland. The investigating judge and the prosecutor had to travel abroad to take statements. When the indictment had to be made, only the main cause of the piece, period 1, had 350 volumes, apart from rogatory commissions, apart from reports from the Tax Agency, etc. And you know who was there to charge? Two prosecutors, a waiter and a few lawyers from city halls and autonomous communities, who left us without a vacation, who stayed on weekends working to keep the culprits from escaping. Because in the end it is the selfless public servants who get the culprits to be persecuted. So, who did we have in front of? In front of us we had powerful people, people with money, people with magnificent lawyers who could effectively dilate the criminal case to their convenience, because they were very brilliant people. Are you not interested, gentlemen of the People's Party, in knowing the truth? That essential element of criminal law, which is to seek material truth, does it not matter to them? Do you not mind that, even if it is in a prolonged period of time, due to the lack of media of the courts, we know who has stolen the public money? Doesn't that matter? That does matter and must be adapted to the media that the court has. But it's also that in his reform, what beats is a mistrust of the investigating judge and the prosecution. It is that you - and you have even said it here, from this rostrum - say that prospective causes are being made. No, gentlemen, no, gentlemen, it's that the corrupt weave such complex fabric that it takes a long time to unravel that maraña and find the guilty and bring them to trial. They are not forward-looking causes, do not insult the investigating judges. There are times when they look a little like the Lords of the United Nations We can and the Lords of the Socialist Party when they attack the examining magistrates or prosecutors, saying they are launching forward-looking cases. But it is also that the reform is already under way and they can consult prosecutors, investigating judges, prosecution parties - even some accusers who are a little bit their ideological arm - and they will see that no one is happy with this reform, that everyone in the field of justice wants to end with these maximum periods of investigation, for a period that, it is said, are those that accommodate the activity of the court. If not, pass through the Plaza de Castilla and see the legacies thrown down the floor and the judges with an accumulation of brutal matters. They do what they can because they're magnificent judges. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, when we are in the government, be serious, we cannot simply repeal Article 324 because it provides for essential elements of criminal investigation of criminal cases, and we must therefore offer an alternative that we offer you on the way to the amendments. That is why we are going to vote against this amendment, and we are going to ask them not to be shielded from each other, that we can finally see in this legislature the repeal of Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and that those people who, instead of serving the Spaniards, use the Spaniards and steal their money from them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u189	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Accelerating criminal proceedings is a good idea - it is a good idea - but if that acceleration does not occur and what it is causing are spaces of impunity, it is probably a bad idea, which is what has happened with this reform of the People's Party, which I believe ultimately produces is a scam to the same rule of law, to the professionals of justice, but above all - above all - to the victims of the crime, and in the end to whom it ends up favoring it is precisely those who committed that crime. Limiting periods of instruction by the same human and material means is ultimately facilitating impunity. Mr Bal said that today one of the branches of the Gürtel is being judged at the National Court. Mr Bal has said this - I share all your speech -: 350 legacies of the whole Gürtel case. Could he have been trained in eighteen months? Probably not. Would it have been possible to discover everything that has been discovered? Probably not. We therefore understand that this reform, which was the only thing that came, was to make it easier for many of the causes that affected the People's Party - many of them - to go unpunished. Not only do I say that; there have been criticisms of associations of judges of all signs, of associations of prosecutors of all signs, and I think it is a cry that this article has to be repealed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u191	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2015 there was a huge political crisis in Spain and outraged with many things, but, among them, with corruption, many of whose cases affected the party that was then in government, the People's Party. And the People's Party, what is facing this crisis of indignation with corruption, is putting more means into justice so that it can do its job better? No, no, Does it make legislative reforms to make the persecution of corruption easier, more effective? No, it shortens the time limits; it makes those who work on it have less time and therefore, in practice, for example, a judge has to choose between opening the investigation having not done all the necessary investigation or in the end having to stop cases in which it is not that someone is free because he is innocent, but that simply the time limits have caught him. In fact, the most sonorous consequence of this reform was that Pedro Antonio Sánchez, former president of Murcia, of the People's Party, had come out absolved of the Pasarelas case, not because no one declared him innocent, but because it turns out that the deadlines were over, and that is what the Soviet forum of El Mundo says, which in December 2018 indicated: The investigation deadlines approved by the PP save the former president of Murcia from a trial by prevarication. In fact, the lawyers of the People's Party in case of box B precisely try to close the case with the question of shortening the deadlines. Look, if you want justice to be more agile, what you have to do is not shorten deadlines; what you have to do is give it more means, because if not someone especially ill thought out might think that in reality the reform of the People's Party of the Criminal Prosecutions Act deadlines had as its fundamental object that the corrupt were more difficult to judge, and could go away with rositas. Justice professionals - who even had to go on strike in 2018 - demanded that the courts be expanded, that more staff be hired, that the system of administration of justice be modernized, for example, that a large part of the procedures be digitized; in the end, that they have more means to do their job. When you ask for more means, what you do is cut your time. This time it does not hang, we will not back down, and the reform and modernisation of the Justice Administration is and is still pending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u193	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we come here to have to choose between bad and bad, but I do not know what is bad and what is worse. We do not, of course, like the regulation of 2015, that of Law 41/2015, which received unanimous criticism from the doctrinal point of view. I dedicate myself to this, I am a professor of procedural law, and all the proceduralists of the left, right, center and 'inside' criticized the legislative clumsiness, the poor drafting, the lack of clarity that has led to each investigating judge to interpret it differently. There was also a very special criticism, as has already been shown by a number of speakers, of the fact that this gave a blank letter to achieve impunity for many cases of corruption. Therefore, we do not like a limitation like that which is in force for instruction, and less in such a poorly worded form, so clumsyly regulated. But we also do not like - and I am now addressing the colleagues of the United Nations We can, among those lawyers in exercise among the proponents - the repeal simply. Saint Augustine, and I do not put him as an ethical referent, but as a person who studied the criminal process very thoroughly based on Aristotle, and who was then followed by the scholastics and the more modern proceduralists, said one thing that is obvious and that all the lawyers in practice know, and that the criminal process is a penalty is itself. For every case of corruption - of course, Mr Bal as a state lawyer only carries high-level matters, but the poor lawyers of the provinces carry all kinds of matters, so the corruption matters obviously do not arrive - we have many matters with anonymous citizens as well, and has shown this, in which criminal proceedings are eternal. Therefore, a situation such as the situation before 2015, in which criminal proceedings could last indefinitely, was a punishment - not to be persecuted guilty, Mr Bal, to be pursued by suspected guilty persons who are sometimes not guilty - but also, as Mr Baldoví has pointed out, to the victims. That is why we have to strike a balance, and for us this balance lies in the amendment that we proposed based on experience - and now I am speaking as a lawyer in practice - practice; the majority of issues that are eternalized do so not because of their complexity - in which Mr Bal intervenes, yes, but in which we intervened the lawyers on foot, no, but they are eternal because the courts are collapsed and there is often a paralysis. What we propose is that a maximum period of inactivity be established, that all that has to last, that lasts until the purposes of Article 299 of the LECrim on the intended purposes of the investigation, that is, to ascertain and record the facts and the persons responsible, but that is, that is, when six months pass, as we propose, although we can discuss it in the Commission, or when there is a period without activity, because what we cannot afford is to unfairly subject the citizens to a criminal trial, an excessively long, unjustifiably long, bench sentence. Justice, we know, when it wants goes very fast, and we have seen it, lived and suffered in some recent causes, but for normal affairs it goes with an exasperating slowness. So let's find a solution. Not to impunity, but also to allow undue delays. If the status of the taxpayer is limited to six months or the legal sanction in administrative matters is also limited to the period of time that a sanctioning file may last for an administered person, we must set some kind of limit as a guarantee to the justiciable person. Not impunity, not undue delay. Our group will therefore abstain in this debate pending the important debate, which we expect in the relevant Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u195	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u196	Thank you, President. Since 2014, with the modification of the People's Party, under the excuse of seeking to speed up criminal justice, the shameful new article 324 of the LECrim was introduced, which established this time limit. I feel that it is repetitive for six months to carry out these criminal investigations. Any connoisseur of law, or at least anyone who has put on a robe, is aware that the way to speed up investigations is by providing the necessary economic and human resources to courts that are currently completely saturated. It is not enough to set a deadline, it is necessary to give material means to make a better functioning possible. It has been shown that the time limit imposed for the investigation of particularly complex offences has led to impunity for the prosecution of such offences, but this does not mean that certain limits should not be set on the duration of certain judicial proceedings. This is the case in tax or sanctioning matters, for example. That is why we must establish a system consistent with the effectiveness of criminal proceedings and fundamental rights: the presumption of innocence, the right to defence and a process with all guarantees. But what we cannot do is enable the impunity of those who commit crime, let alone the corrupt. Well, now that the Socialist Party is finally proposing its repeal, we are discussing an amendment that not only defends that version of 2014, but has also doubled the bet, raises more bureaucracy, introduces a new exception to this ceiling, in addition to the declaration of complexity of the instruction, which is the statement of extendable instruction. The cases in which such an extension consideration may be given, which includes the collapse of the services, units or professionals that are required to perform it, are reported. In other words, we oblige the courts to report on more occasions, the prosecutors to generate new reports, the parties to request further extensions, so that nothing changes. For this reason, despite the final collection indicating that it cannot be automatically extended without justification, it is clear that the amendment proposed by the PP is a bold bet to further collapse the Administration of Justice. There can be no support for an amendment such as the one mentioned, which, first, increases the risk of impunity for investigators and also of corruption; second, it represents a facade of false commitment to the speed of the functioning of the courts, and third, it generates judicial collapse and useless bureaucracy, just the opposite of what is required for the proper functioning of the administration of justice. But the issue doesn't end here. What is surprising is not the lack of real and effective commitment of the right to the proper functioning of the public case in general and the courts in particular. Since 2014, this precept, the 324 of the LECrim, has worked as a containment dam for criminal investigations, and especially for a non-minor or casual issue, cases of political and business corruption. It is clear that putting unconditional time limits on the practice of investigative proceedings adds to the risk of impunity of persons investigated and alleged to be guilty. As we have pointed out, the crux of the matter is the protection of the corrupt. Our group, which carries the banner of the fight against corruption, will never be able to give support, either by active or passive, to any measure that puts sticks on the wheels to the persecution of those who take advantage of their position of power and privilege for private benefit. We do not want to be repetitive with the cases of corruption of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, perhaps we would bore the citizens who are seeing us if we now go back to the Bárcenas case, the Blesa case, the Rat case... Who does not remember the cases of the EREs of Andalusia or now of the City of L'Hospitalet of Llobregat? We do not intend to make a comprehensive list of cases of political corruption related to the PP and PSOE. Everyone has in mind what the 78 regime has done in the management of the public since they are in power, but what we want to bring to mind today is that these facts are not a thing of the past. It is estimated that the corruption of the People's Party has so far had a cost of almost EUR 60 billion and that of the Socialist Party of almost EUR 50 billion. The fight against this scourge is not only an ethical duty, but an unalterable necessity in quantitative terms. We affirm all this without being able to count 1. [[the embezzlement and the public and notorious corruption of the Spanish royal family]] You'd have to see the extent to which those figures increase...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u197	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u198	... the cost of corruption if we could investigate that family, the most subsidized in the Spanish State, the only one that doesn't deserve it. This could begin to be known, if not because the necessary cooperation between PSOE, PP and VOX to block the 2nd Committee of Inquiry has not made this possible. [[corruption of the Bourbons]] No more impunity. Ladies and gentlemen, we must put an end to Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, but we must take action. There is an urgent need to allocate more resources to the administration of justice. We need to make available to public services what is necessary for them to carry out their work. The resources are, what remains to be seen is whether there is also the political will to allocate them where they are needed. The Centre for Peace Studies has just drawn up a report denouncing that, in the midst of the health, social and economic crisis, the Spanish state's military spending this year will again exceed EUR 20 billion. Question of priorities. Would it not be better to allocate this EUR 20 billion to social and economic recovery, health and education? Corruption must be pursued where it is hidden, and the distinguished Members of the major parties of this House should not worry because they will certainly not have to look far to find it. Thank you. [[Mrs Borrego Cortés asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u199	Your Honor, excuse me. He was well aware of Rule 103.1 of the Rules of Procedure, which referred to the decorum of State institutions. I would ask you to untie the mention you made of corruption in the Royal House as an institution of the State. Just untied both concepts.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u200	No, Mr. President. I totally disagree with withdrawing that concept.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u201	All right. Thank you. It shall be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. [[Mrs Borrego Cortés asked for the floor.]] What article does he invoke?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u202	Article 71 in relation to 103, for references to the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u203	And what particular reference does he make to?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u204	A corrupt condemned party.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u205	You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u206	This party, like the one I have in front of the bench, has been alluded to throughout this intervention referring to cases of corruption and, in particular, has said that this party has been convicted of corruption. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] The People's Party has never been convicted of corruption. 1 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. 2 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u207	All right. Let's keep going. I give the floor, for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, to Mr Santiago Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u208	Thank you, Mr. President. We go up to talk about an amendment tabled by a party that has been declared profitable beneficiary of a process of corruption by the ruling of the Gürtel case and we go up to talk about an amendment to the whole that it seeks to put into effect the reform that they have already approved with their roll through Law 41/2015. Of course, the right to a trial without undue delay was neither guaranteed by the reform adopted by the People's Party nor will it be affected by the repeal of that reform. But let us really talk about context and objective facts, as the rapporteur of the People's Party said. Background. 'I'm in politics to feed myself,' said the telephone intervention to Mr Vicente Sanz, Secretary General of the People's Party of Valencia. 'I have to get rich,' said the recording that was made to Eduardo Zaplana. And now, after the background, let's get to the facts. During the Rajoy government, from 2012 to 2018, up to 268 corruption cases involving the People's Party were recorded, with an estimated cost of more or less 120 billion euros, i.e. the corruption of the People's Party economically affected Spain. But the PP didn't worry until it began to affect the People's Party electorally. So, what happened? That an immense shield protecting impunity was deployed. It was the times when M. Rajoy claimed that everything was a plot against the People's Party, and what really started was a plan to guarantee that impunity. And they come here to talk, to blame programmed attacks on the powers of the state. Let's talk about planned attacks on state powers. Changes in the UDEF, in the police unit investigating economic crime; the two commissioners who brought up the Gürtel case were accused by Mr Fernández Díaz and the People's Party of being forming a political police against the People's Party; up to seven complaints, all filed, against Mr Manuel Morocho and against the one who was Commissioner General of the Judicial Police, Mr Juan Antonio González García. And who filed these complaints, among others? Pablo Crespo, Mr Álvarez-Cascos or Mr Jesús Merino, all leaders of the People's Party. But they also put themselves in key positions to appoint or compose the courts of trial to magistrates who were then challenged by their proximity to the People's Party - that is another objective fact - such as Mrs Espejel or Mr Enrique López. And the so-called patriotic police were also used to destroy evidence, as in the case of the papers of Bárcenas. By the way, the instruction of the papers of Bárcenas was closed by decree - by decree - in application of this norm, without going further. And finally, if anything was missing, you after all that reformed the Criminal Prosecution Act to limit and hinder those instructions. They adopted a reform that was technically deficient, a kind of political prevarication, which was unwarranted by law; a clear example to study in the powers of the right to arbitrary realization of one's own right in a legislative and ethically reprehensible way, a self-amnism for their cases of corruption. The amendment to the whole that we are discussing today seeks to maintain the rule and its shortcomings and to deepen them, that is, the same defects but increased by Law 41/2015. Technically deficient because they instruct judges, but the declaration of complexity remains in the hands of the prosecution, justifying it in particular statistical calculations of the duration of the investigation, matching the case of a simple robbery with a complex economic instruction and, of course, obviating that those responsible for these complex economic crimes were shielded, when they occurred, in high State institutions. Even in the explanatory statement you acknowledge that the reform has not worked, that it was an absolutely shameful rule. And it's an amendment just as unjustifiable in law as the law they passed. The associations of judges and prosecutors called for the suspension of the entry into force; it was called a final point of law by the associations of judges and prosecutors; the Professional Association of the Judiciary also called for its reform; more than 1000 prosecutors out of a total of 2500 signed a letter against its reform and the prosecutors stated that it was materially impossible to review 650 000 judicial cases, which you wanted them to do within six months. And now you propose a cosmetic modification to speed up, you say, justice by avoiding undue delay. The only way to speed up justice is to provide it with human and technological resources. If justice has not collapsed in all these years - and we have to make it clear here and thank it - it has been thanks to the efforts of the workers of the Administration of Justice, to the public employees who without means managed to maintain the functioning of a justice that was seen as a threat by the People's Party. And, in case they ignore it, annual memoirs of the General Council of the Judiciary: lack of investment, shortage of judges, technological backwardness, failure of the Organic Law of Judicial Office because for ten years they did not provide it with economic resources. And what's the need now? The need is, of course, a comprehensive and urgent review of the Criminal Prosecution Act, and that is what this Government and the Ministry of Justice have committed themselves to doing to reorganize the case. In fact, I am pleased with the concern of all parliamentary groups about the lack of resources and resources. I propose here a great agreement to provide these resources and resources, which we will put into practice in a couple of months' time in the General Budgets of the State; not in a year's time, in a couple of months' time. That is the real reform that is needed. The reform of self-amnesty that you are proposing to us is simply impunity and is an equally ethically reprehensible amendment. I could continue to speak about the ruling of the Gürtel, which in 1300 pages clearly says what has been the exploitation of the People's Party of the phenomena of corruption. During Legislatures XII and XIII the Socialist Group, the VOX Group and Citizens have tabled very similar amendments, very similar amendment proposals. We have no problem talking about an improvement of what is needed, but the truth, gentlemen of the People's Party, be brave, please vote in favour of the repeal, assume once and for all their responsibilities to the State and to the citizens, cease to wear off with this pathetic attempt to maintain their covert amnesty law in cases of corruption. Face your past before all of Spain, leave behind corruption, start by publicly expressing an amendment purpose, which claims all of Spain, starting with its voters - which would be very good for them - and do not miss this last opportunity to ask for forgiveness for corruption and offer truth to this country. Withdraw your amendment. Cheers, good health to all of you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u209	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfection of the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to rise to this rostrum to defend the position of the VOX Parliamentary Group in the face of the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party to the proposal for a law repealing the maximum period for investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act submitted by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations. But before we go into this matter, and since we are talking about the investigation of criminal cases, I want to use this speaking time to pay a public tribute to all those who serve as guards in the investigating courts, i.e. judges, prosecutors, lawyers, judicial officials, and also, of course, to all professionals, especially those on duty, who during this time of pandemic have played their lives - and continue to play them; some have lost it - because the Government did not provide assistance with the means necessary for their protection in time. [[Applauds]] It is clear that those who work as guards do so to safeguard our legal system and also our constitutional rights and, in return, everyone receives a fair remuneration. On the subject, progress has been made that my group is not going to support the amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party, and it is not going to do so for reasons of justice, never better said. However, we have tabled two amendments to the technical text, which, we understand, improve the proposed text and avoid the automatic rehabilitation of the text before the 2015 reform and also the regulatory vacuum, so of course we are interested since they are taken into account. If we can say anything, the reform of the Lecrim introduced by Law 41/2015 created a problem where it did not exist; it caused a serious institutional confrontation between prosecutors, lawyers and judges, which forced the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General's Office to issue instructions to try to put order. The prosecutors found themselves overwhelmed and unable to deal with the review of more than half a million cases all over Spain. Justice lawyers, a body to which I have the honour to belong for almost eighteen years, have seen the responsibility of managing, once again, within the judicial offices, the problem that the Government was creating, and the judges met with the need to control a further period of time in their proceedings, the time of pre-trial detention, in order to request further or further investigation by the prosecutor and other defendants. The situation created created tension between our main legal operators that they did not deserve and, worse, served only to fuel the hopes of the investigated persons that the accusations could find limited their powers to properly prepare their elements of office. And it is precisely here that we must decide: what is the purpose of wanting to maintain the current course that hinders the full realization of all the instructive activity that is deemed necessary? Are you in favour of promoting impunity? We cannot afford to tie up with our feet and hands the action of justice to investigate crimes, especially if we talk about the most complex crimes that, logically, carry with them a more extensive investigation, and among them are those of corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards would not understand that due to procedural obstacles created by politicians some corrupt with swivel doors could laugh at the action of justice. What is proposed by the Group of the European People's Party in its amendment as a whole? Basically three things. The first, leaving things as they are, essentially that's the idea. It is true that it gives a varnish to the previous text, but basically it is to leave the obstacles as they are at present. The second is to impose a new obligation on the investigating judge to notify the prosecutor's office that the deadline for requesting investigation proceedings is running out. In other words, the investigating judge becomes the alarm clock of the prosecutor's office. And, third, to apply the proposed regulation to all procedures and not only to those starting from the entry into force of the proposed regulation. That is, to force the investigating courts and the prosecutions to make a general inventory again; more obstacles. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to seek excellence in the duration of the stage of investigation of the panal causes, let us address the real causes that prevent it. First, from a structural point of view, we must invest in justice, it is our obligation, to put in place the necessary means for the most complex causes to receive all the attention they need without entailing the paralysis of the other matters of the court. Second, acts of communication. In most cases, delays are due to factors extrinsic to the pure procedural process. The investigation of criminal cases is relatively often paralyzed pending the completion of exhortations, trades or orders to public or private entities. It is also because of the very rigorous system of personal notifications, which obliges us to do pirouettes to find those who on many occasions do not want to be found. And above this, to adapt it to the new times, it is necessary and urgent. In a world where most people communicate via social networks and telematics, Lecrim cannot be left out. Until the new law on criminal prosecution or as the new text may be called, the time of proceedings should be reduced, procedures should be simplified and modernized in some of them, and the catalogue of available resources should be redesigned during the training phase. It should be thought that in the current summary procedure, in the stage of instruction, and in the ordinary there are some steps that are regulated almost as when the norm was created in the nineteenth century, and therefore it is not valid for a society and for a justice of the twenty-first century. I'm done. In any case, the path to a modern, effective and as short a time as possible in the criminal investigation phase is not by maintaining the current text of article 324 but by allowing the courts, courts and prosecutors to work with all the procedural and material tools they need to bring the proceedings to a successful conclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u211	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u212	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mrs. Moro, that PP's mania of considering any opinion different from yours as an attack on the Constitution, as if it were on your property, as the ring that Mr. Mena said, is at least curious, especially coming from a party that is heir to another that, let's put it mildly, had its doubts when voting in this House the Constitution. [[Applauds]] What is happening, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is that I must recognize a special art for you when you come up to this rostrum and mix any point of debate with your prejudices and obsessions. They are not the only ones, I admit, to their starboard there is another party that makes prejudice their sign of identity. What happens, ladies and gentlemen, is that prejudice is alien to reason and, in fact, what happens is that the one who comes to this house and from home with the backpack full of prejudices does not reason, if at all misguided facts, when he does not manipulate, lies, discriminates or offers biased information, all with the sole objective of strengthening his previous belief, the one that brings in the backpack; come on, bring reality to his preconceived idea, and so it is very complicated to hold a debate. In my previous intervention from this atril I alluded to my perception of the VOX bench teloneros. In the light of what I have seen in this plenary these two days, I am reminded of a film, called The Final Trick, in which two magicians compete to create the greatest trick of illusionism. Well, you're competing to create the biggest trick of illusionism known to date, which is the Spanish right. But let us talk about the case before us today that it is nothing other than the debate of the whole to finally repeal Article 324 of the Lecrim, a derogation, ladies and gentlemen, which is a demand shared by all the groups of justice; it is one of those issues that one can come to think that there is room for the agreement, if you want, because you know that some of the criticisms that professionals have made of the right to this article come from the numerous gaps and dysfunctions in their interpretation and because it creates a risk of impunity, as we have seen in some case that has arisen, or absolutions that affect fundamental rights, which implies a lack of protection for the victim. Ladies and gentlemen - it has been said here - this is the third time that this debate has been attempted and we all agree, to a greater or lesser extent, that its reform of Law 41/2015, which, among other measures, introduced this amendment, has not only resolved nothing, but has made the situation worse. But, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate must be framed in a deeper one, such as the one on speeding up and modernising justice. In this regard, both the royal decree passed by this House and this bill belong to a package of measures aimed at this end, together with the draft law of organizational measures and other measures announced by the Minister at his appearance in February covered by the 2030 Justice Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely say this to you, justice, and more so at this time of global crisis, has elements to be able to work in broad consensus to get it out of the impasse in which it finds itself. It's worth it. We believe that this repeal is on the way to providing greater security and guaranteeing the rights of the parties. But, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, with what PP do we stand?, with that of its own president, Pablo Casado, who said in September 2008, with entities of judges and prosecutors, that he undertook to repeal this article or with its amendment to the whole? I understand that coherence is sometimes a precious asset that is hard to find, but I encourage you not to decline in the attempt because I assure you that the reward, when you find it, is very high. Ladies and gentlemen, your position in this House indicates rather that you are actually in favour of facilitating this impunity that judges and prosecutors denounce. His group, in Legislature XII, systematically blocked its processing with the approval of up to sixty-four extensions of the deadline for amendments, until the proposal fell due to the dissolution of the Courts. By the way, I don't see Mr. Bal now. I do not know where he was, but his group was with him, blocking these initiatives in the Bureau. By the way, Mr Bal, this group was the first to submit a proposal to repeal this article in February 2016. You have to remember that, too. And now they are presenting this amendment as a whole, an amendment which neither solves the problem nor fulfils the aims of the reform under discussion. In its amendment, the binary system of time limits for ordinary and complex investigations continues to be maintained, with the resulting complexity. It's very simple, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, very simple. Are you or are you not in favour of repealing Article 324? Yes or no? Are you in favour of ending the loophole of insecurity and a gateway to impunity? Please clarify once whether you are against or in favour of impunity for alleged perpetrators of corruption crimes. Yes or no? It's very simple. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of my group, of the Socialist Group, since the adoption of the 2015 Act alone and alone has not changed a bit. Article 324, far from fixing anything, has put criminal justice itself at risk. As the current minister said in his day, two are the reasons why we support the repeal of this article: for coherence - which they lack - and for justice. By the way, justice, gentlemen of VOX, that justice that lately does not give you much reason in its multiple, picturesque and unbridled judicial incursions. It's you to politics that homeopathy to medicine, a useless placebo. Too bad they miss the touch of sweet sugar that homeopathy has. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we repeat this again - the minister said it in his appearance to give an account of his general lines - this process that we are dealing with today is going to be accompanied by other laws that we are going to put in place, and there you will find our group to have a calm debate, a debate of height that can place justice where it deserves. We are a party that likes dialogue and the pact; we have an irrevocable vocation to improve the laws that give meaning to our democratic, social and legal system. And I end with a mention that you made, Mrs. Moro, of DNA, of the genetic information that we each have in politics. I'm not going to speculate on your political DNA, where each party comes from, but I am going to tell you what the DNA of this group and this party, the DNA of the PSOE after a hundred and forty years. Our DNA is that law and progress go hand in hand; law and rights go hand in hand; law and social progress go hand in hand. In short, law and justice go hand in hand. We have done so, unfortunately, throughout our years of government and also now in the coalition government, because we do not forget to legislate to improve. That's -- don't forget -- our DNA. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u213	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u214	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 61 in order to regulate for cases of extreme necessity the possibility of holding meetings of the Congress through telematic means. For the defence of the initiative, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u215	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing a proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of Congress, the addition of a paragraph 4 to Rule 61 which aims to allow something that is already a tangible reality throughout society - in fact, we have been asking all citizens during the pandemic - teleworking, the possibility of making full telematics. In addition, we have been very careful in drafting this proposal, since we have adhered to cases of extreme and urgent need arising from the health emergency or similar causes. Therefore, without prejudice to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure and also to Rule 70.2, we call for the holding of plenary sessions, committees, Bureau and panel of spokespersons to be allowed on a telematic basis; indeed, many speakers' meetings are already being held on a telematic basis and democracy has not been affected by this. We therefore call for the facilitation of telematic work and believe that citizens would not understand that we would not approve it. There is a risk of contagion. Fortunately, we are now out of the first cycle of COVID, but unfortunately the health authorities warn that it is possible that in autumn we will have new episodes again. Therefore, the concentration of so many Members in this area implies a clear risk of contagion. In addition, from an economic point of view, it would result in savings of consideration. Each of us has to come from its various localities and, in addition, Congress pays us train tickets or airplane in preferential class. We could do it quietly from our homes or from our cities through the video and save a lot of money to the public treasury. I insist that no reason for opposition to this proposal could be understood, unless - as I fear - the reason for this resistance to introduce plenary sessions and telematic meetings is a very concrete fear. Let us add one additional provision: this regulation will not apply to Mr Carles Puigdemont. Then we'd all be quiet. If the fear is that it will not apply to Puigdemont, we put it specifically, but do not refuse to advance. I've been here a short time, but my disappointment is very great, as Mr. Bal used to say. Here we do not come to debate; here we come to monologue successively. I would like the realization to focus on the Chamber: it is empty. We are just over fifty Members, we are not a fifth of the Members. And this doesn't just happen now because we're in a pandemic, this is the usual thing. Here we go out the speakers, usually with written interventions, even if it is the reply to which he has intervened before - it doesn't matter - because here we don't come to argue with arguments, but the only argument and the one that repeats itself most is: and you more; when you ruled it was worse, or where you rule it worse. Therefore, we come to look for our minute or our thirty seconds of glory on television, or applause or likes on social media where we then hang our videos. He said that this is empty and, moreover, there is something else that also distorts the debate. I have discovered a new physical law: a speaker's brilliance is directly proportional to the volume of his parliamentary group. When someone comes out of a large parliamentary group, he is ovated on his feet and enthusiastically. To me, poor fellow, of a tiny group, no one will ever applaud me, but I settle for this sad ordeal. He said that we are following empty debates and, moreover, what citizens do not know is that we do not even vote after the debates. When all the debates that we have planned, which are very many, are over, there will be a bell, Members will come and we will vote twenty-two things at once. Most Members do not even know what is being said. So that's when we see the iconic image of the spokesman moving a finger: vote in favour; moving two fingers: vote against; or moving three: abstention. Please, let's be a little serious, that citizens pay us very well to do a job that we should employ more thoroughly. Already in place, we should also try to reform the rigidity of the Rules of Procedure in terms of timing. Before, for a subject I know of, I was touched three and a half minutes; moreover, this clock has no means and, instead of four, they put me three. Lights and alarms began to come out at three minutes. It's a good thing I'm carrying the cafinitrine by hand, because I've been afraid of a collapse with all these lights coming out. And now, to ask for such an obvious thing, they give me twelve minutes; I'm left, I'm not going to tire them out. It is also three and twenty minutes in the afternoon and we have been here since nine in the morning. This is inhuman even to Members; we should regulate it in a much more reasonable way. The Rules of Procedure, which are rigid in terms of time, also become a sort of shambles in order, for example, to be able to carry out commissions of inquiry - I do not go in, do not worry, Mr President, you will not have to call me to order - with unsustainable legal arguments. Spanish justice itself is investigating the news, notitia criminis, as it is said in procedural terms, that affect the emeritus king. How will we not be able to investigate it in this house, in the seat of democracy, when the emeritus king has gone from inviolable to inviolable and can therefore be judged; when justice itself is investigating; when it is evident that the cases of corruption that are allegedly being investigated could affect not only inviolable persons, but also other natural or legal persons who were involved. But no, the Rules of Procedure forbid us and the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure forbid us even more. Or we make secret commissions; let no one know, in order to defend her honour, the most serious facts that are imputed to Mrs Borràs. Read The World, ABC or Reason and you will see all tax assessments transcribed, but from here nothing comes out; we will preserve instead of trying to promote maximum transparency and that it can be discussed with light and stenographers and stenographers, as it should always be in this house. So, apart from the reform we are proposing on time, I urge the Bureau to take it seriously, to reform the regulation and to try to modernize this house a little bit. Since I arrived, with so many velvets, sometimes I have the feeling of being in the 20th century or in the 19th; sometimes I close my eyes and I have the feeling of smelling of naphthaline. The computers we have in our seats carry Windows 7, operating system 2009; naturally they don't work anymore. The citizens won't have seen it, but when I showed my children the MP's card... They're still laughing at me, but Dad, where are you going? Please, let's try to reform this, let's try to make this a house of debate, let's do it seriously, not with the 'and you more', because, if not, every day there will be more disaffection from citizenship towards the political class. Therefore, I end up without consuming the twelve minutes that, in generous excess, have corresponded to me today saying: let us take into consideration this reform of Article 61.4, with the Puigdemont clause if you want and if so much fear gives you. Let's make the most of it. I urge the Bureau to reform the Rules of Procedure much more widely and let us all make an effort to bring this Congress of Deputies, the seat of parliamentarianism, to the twenty-first century, which we are about to enter in its third decade. Thank you very much. I don't need to be applauded, I'm from a tiny group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u216	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u217	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Throughout this crisis we have heard many speeches in this House that have begun to appeal to the solidarity of all of us Members of Parliament, with the whole of Spanish society, accompanying it in its pain, in its losses and also in the hard times that go through millions of families in our country. These are speeches that have been delivered for weeks since this Chamber, from this rostrum. The Plural Group is bringing us a reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House in order to be able to carry out full telematics, but, ladies and gentlemen, my Parliamentary Group thinks that we are late. In Citizens we did not take even a week since the outbreak of the crisis to request it on an ongoing basis at the meetings of the Board of Spokespersons. A restrictive interpretation, we believe, of the Rules of Procedure by the Presidency of the House prevented it on an ongoing basis. We have demanded it many times, and I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we remain alone all the time. No other parliamentary group defended this position on the Board of Spokesmen. That is why the problem for us is not whether or not we take into account this proposal for a law, but all the time we have lost and the bad example we have given to citizens when it was more necessary than ever that this seat, the seat of national sovereignty, the seat of all Spaniards should not be an organism alien to their reality. We've asked the Spaniards to stay home, and they have. We've asked the Spaniards to telework, and they have. We have forced the little ones, our little children, to interrupt classes, and they have. And while they were doing their part of the deal, what were we doing? We were the exception, and we kept going to Congress and going to work as if nothing happened. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to take this seriously, really. Here we discussed how to apply a state of alarm to restrict mobility, without being able to organize a single full telematics that would avoid putting the workers of this House at risk and setting an example for all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, a reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House is not necessary, it is essential. I will quote a few words from Mr Carlos Gutiérrez Vicén - he is not at the moment -, secretary general of this house, who wrote in the magazine of the General Courts in the year 2018 an extensive article on the need for this reform, and I quote: 'The reform of the Rules of Congress of Deputies has become a real pending subject, as may be the reform of the Senate or the amendment of the constitutional regime as regards the succession of the Crown or the adoption of the Rules of General Courts which, in order to govern the joint sessions of both Houses, provides for article 72.2 of the Constitution'. Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure of Congress have been amended 13 times since 1982, and the vast majority of amendments have been made to Rule 46, which tells us which legislative committees are, of course, to adapt them to the different structures of the Government. Of the thirteen times, the vast majority have simply been to change the name of the commissions. There has been some on the appointments of the General Council of the Judiciary and, in 2011, to include telematic voting in the circumstances of paternity, maternity and serious illness of deputies. This regulation was designed for a bipartisan scenario, ladies and gentlemen. Although many nostalgic members of that bipartisanism, which no longer exists, remain within this Chamber, pluripartisanism has come to remain, and the Regulation must be adapted to equal conditions, without the advantages of adulterating our political reality, as we do here every week. It seems therefore necessary to update and bring to the twenty-first century the rules of parliamentary play and not just the full telematics, Mr Cuevillas, whatever the circumstances. I would like to ask you: do you not want to reform the way in which questions are asked to the President of the Government and to the Government, according to Article 188? Do we have to be every week, every Wednesday, in this nonsense of: you haven't asked me what you told me in writing; then I answer what you told me here, but not what you asked me? Is not a President of the Government or a Minister of a Spanish Government able to answer a question from the opposition even if it has not been put in writing before? But if we all do this, in all the media and every day. What are we doing here? Would it not be reasonable for the President of the Government to answer a question from each parliamentary group at the monitoring session and not always one from the second group and two from all the others? And the commitment to non-legislative initiatives? Are we going to keep doing PNL here that's not worth anything? Are you going to present, government parties, PSOE and Podemos, a GNP to remove the decorations to Billy the Child, when it is the government and can you bring a royal decree to do so? We're doing things that all we do is fool all the citizens. Are we really going to change the way we choose the General Council of the Judiciary, because that is also regulated in the Rules of Procedure. And the electronic voting of members of international parliamentary assemblies? You can't go to a parliamentary assembly even if your presence is important. We want to have weight in Europe, we want weight in the world, but a Member cannot move, even with permission, because he has to come and vote face to face. We hardly even talked to them about the lobbies register. The desirability of having the debate on the state of the nation in the Rules of Procedure... It's just that I don't even remember how many years it's been since we've had a debate about the nation state! Citizen participation in the things we talk about here, nothing; for neither do we seem to worry much! And the formulas of promise or oath to the Constitution, I also believe that we should regulate them in this regulation, and not allow shameful spectacles, always to the interpretation of the President of the House, that the only thing that ends up is giving more work to the Constitutional Court for the unconstitutionalities that occur on this issue. Well, let's settle it! Let's make a reform and regulate this. Now, I will tell you one thing, Mr Cuevillas, there are many reasons to vote for this, and we are going to vote for it, but I believe, Mr de Junts per Catalunya, Mr Cuevillas - I finish, President - that the Rules of Procedure of the House are absolutely the same for you. To you, the Rules of Procedure of this House give the same thing, because you are only concerned about the usual, of your table of dialogue between Mr Torra and the Government, of continuing to distribute cards of good and bad Catalans, of leaving the rest of the Spaniards from their exclusionary xenophobia, and now, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, of disguised as donations for the fight against COVID, which is nothing more than funding for your escape from Puigdemont. You have even been able to do so; you have been able, in this crisis, to finance, through donations using COVID, Mr Puigdemont in Waterloo. Gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, you have no measure, and you have no measure because you have no shame. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u218	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u219	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused major changes in social activities, affecting, of course, public institutions. In particular, and in the case of the Congress of Deputies, everyone knows that the health emergency has led us to reduce parliamentary activity to a very basic level, depending on the activity of the parliamentary committees, with the exception of the Health Commission, limiting the plenary to the treatment of urgent issues and, moreover, on the recommendation of the health authorities and with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, calling on the parliamentary groups to reduce the number of Members who could attend the plenary; an agreement that has successfully fulfilled almost all the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the People's Group, which has fulfilled it in that way, bringing half of its Members when asked for 30% and returning to Congress offices before time. But, well, we know the rules don't go too far with you guys. Anyway, I think we did what we had to do. It was a question of safeguarding health and avoiding contagion in the Congress of Deputies, but, saying this, too, we are aware that this situation has inevitably reduced the capacities of impulse and control of the Legislative Power, and we share that we need to think and imagine solutions to safeguard parliamentary activity in other crises, because no one escapes that new outbreaks, even even more serious crises, could come, that would not even allow us to maintain the basic level of parliamentary activity that we have maintained these weeks. What's the problem? As has been said, what is happening is that we have a Congressional regulation which, while specifying the mechanisms for declaring state of alarm, site or exception, does not explain how to ensure the operation of the House in these temporary and exceptional situations. Possibly, at the time when the Rules of Congress were drafted, it was a difficult problem to solve, but after the appearance of videoconferencing and the generalization of broadband connections, we could certainly have a simple solution to this problem. In this respect, I have to tell the proposing Member that we share the substance of the reform. In fact, on 3 April, the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal already registered a reform of the Congressional Rules so that parliamentary activity could be carried out by telematic means in the states of alarm, exception and site. However, our vote cannot be in favour of this proposal for a number of reasons which I will try to sum up very quickly. The initiative we are discussing today is limited to introducing a fourth paragraph in Article 61. This is therefore a rather small proposal, as it does not seem that the modification of a single paragraph is sufficient to make the House fully operational in a telematic way. As a matter of fact, let us look at the paragraph that is being amended and its place in the Rules of Congress. Article 61 - which is the subject of amendment of this proposal - begins a chapter called: Sessions. However, the operation of a legislative chamber is projected not only and exclusively in the sessions, but also in other essential areas, such as debates and votes, and from all this your proposal says absolutely nothing. And it is not just technical errors; the telematic operation of a parliament requires full legal guarantees and the proposal that we are debating, in our view, does not incorporate them. One of the most important issues in dealing with this reform should be to put into practice the assumptions that enable this House to function in a telematic way. In the proposal that our parliamentary group tabled on 3 April, as I said, we clearly defined the assumptions; in this regard, we referred to natural or climatic disasters, serious accidents, health crises, paralysis of essential public services or states of emergency provided for in Article 116 of our Constitution. However, the proposal brought to us today by the Plural Group is limited to mentioning the health emergency and - I quote - other causes of a similar nature. This indeterminacy, in our view, creates too much legal uncertainty. Nor does this proposal regulate issues essential for telematic operation, such as the modalities of debate or the necessary adaptation of telematic voting, for example, what would happen if there were technical failures in a session. Would it be a valid session or not? This issue is also not addressed. These are not minor matters, ladies and gentlemen. This week we have seen both in the Bureau of Congress and in the Board of Spokesmen what are the possibilities and limits of these new telematic tools, and this proposal that you are making to us has not just taken over this complexity, because there are a whole series of assumptions that refer to situations of face-to-face debate that are simply not contemplated here. In short, the need to improve this proposal - that is to say with all due respect - is too many. To perfect this initiative by means of amendments would mean completely and completely distorting it, the result would be an unrelated text, lacking clarity and which in reality had little to do with the initial proposal. For the reasons set out above, our vote, as I said, will be unfavorable, even though we share the need for reform. In any case, we will continue to work so that as soon as possible we can reform the Rules of Congress, in order to allow the telematic operation, but let us do so with the technical rigour that it needs and that requires the seat of popular sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u220	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Calvo Liste has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in our memory the thousands of victims of COVID-19, our grief to their families, our encouragement to those who are still ill. The Congress of Deputies suspended plenary activity the week after the fateful 8-M. We are being brought here today to take into consideration the proposal by a coup party to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. With these members, we are very much afraid of the intentions that this proposal actually conceals, beyond the innocent telematic intervention of Members. It is no coincidence that this group presented it, nor was the Republican Group's proposal on the delimitation of military justice last week. The foundations, based on an absolute lack of respect for parliamentaryism, are once again based on the enemies of Spain and democracy, which seek to violate the noble performance of the parliamentary function and the very nature of Parliament. This is a forum of debate that revolves around deliberation, and it must be public, with a dialogical structure and even non-verbal expression, with gestures, movements of the body and hands; this interaction allows the formulation of diverse opinions and votes in contradiction. That is why the presence is consistent with parliamentary activity, it is a duty and a general rule, and it is not so said by the VOX Parliamentary Group, but it is laid down in Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress itself: 'Members will have the duty to attend the sessions of the plenary of the Congress and of the committees to which they belong'. Now the coupts intend the opposite, to advance in that what is general, is telematic, and the face, the debate and the cleaning, is the anecdotal. The reasons are first and foremost legal, and only the telematic vote delegated under exceptional circumstances such as the current one, which has also been extrapolated to the Autonomous Chambers, is possible. The necessary interrelationships between Members are not feasible in the distance. The Constitutional Court itself, in its judgment 19/2019 of 12 February, which has so little liked Catalan separatists, establishes the face-to-face character as the foundation of parliamentary law, which requires immediacy and contradiction, also avoiding coercion in the vote, since the House expresses the will of the parliamentarian and not that of a third party who can attend or act on behalf of the absent person. Article 79.1 of the Constitution requires for the adoption of agreements that the Chambers are meeting regularly and with the assistance of the majority of its members. More in detail, the Rules of Congress, in its article 70.2, seem to leave little room for interpretative flexibility: Speeches will be delivered personally and with a loud voice. The speaker may speak from the rostrum or from the bench, as I am at this time. The Constitutional Court adds that the exercise of representative functions has to be developed as a general rule in a personal and face-to-face manner, even considering that the decision to vote can arise from the direct and immediate interrelationship between representatives, so - the Constitutional Court continues to say - it is necessary for parliamentarians to meet face-to-face, because this is the only way to ensure that aspects that can only be perceived through personal contact can be taken into account. The fundamental right to political participation is enshrined in article 23 of the Constitution. The representative has a right, but also a duty; it is the so-called ius in officium, as a set of rights that are attributed to the deputy in the exercise of the status by each and every citizen. The case law of the Constitutional Court itself indicates that it is the deputies, in exercising their functions, who allow citizens to access the right to political participation through their representatives. The plenary session of the Congress, at that session on 21 July 2011, had already approved a reform of the Rules of Procedure amending Rules 79 and 82, and the object was clear: to allow non-in-face voting of deputies in cases assessed and with the proper authorization of the Bureau of the House, such as pregnancy, maternity, paternity or serious illness. They have now been kept in full presence with a reduced attendance of Members - at first fifty and then we have been increasing them successively - and an extension of the telematic vote to those who follow the sitting at a distance. These reforms and regulatory adjustments, of their own, are doubtful, and I would dare say that they can even be unconstitutional, since it is true that the Member can vote, he is deprived of being able to intervene, which conflicts with the above-mentioned articles of the Constitution and those of the Rules themselves. There are no full telematic integrals. The solution has been that the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies should extend the telematic vote to all those who wish to do so. The judgment cited above does not provide, even in exceptional cases, what is linked to the second of the reasons, which is that Parliament's essence should not be sacrificed for technology. In addition to regulatory provisions regulating possible incidents, there must be technical-logistic requirements, since in order to be able to take the floor or ask for statements, among others, it would be particularly burdensome if due to a technical deficiency, a bad connection to the network or a computer problem a Member of the European Parliament would be deprived of a telematic presence or, worse, of a vote, which would directly affect the formation of the will of the House. [[The lady]] The third reason is the very essence of parliamentarianism, where decisions are made as a result of the debate, being a living element. The independenceists want the debate to die, the parliament to be virtual, where a fugitive from justice or a prisoner can intervene remotely. It would be difficult to interact effectively with the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups. How could replica and duplicate shifts normally develop, or even those due to allusions? How could we negotiate on the march if necessary? It must be said that the House of Commons itself of the British Parliament, in its debates over the past few months in connection with the crisis, has come to similar and almost unanimous conclusions. We cannot confine ourselves to democracy or quarantine it as this Government has done, for it is precisely at this moment when the adoption of measures that require deliberation and approval by the body representing the Spanish people is most necessary and frequent. Just the opposite of what happened. It was not until April 15 when the control sessions resumed, those that liked the government so little, taking advantage of the crisis to impose its communist ideology, as we saw with the appointment of Mr. Iglesias in the CNI, contracts to ghost companies, appointments of new high-ranking officials, millionaire distributions to the media to offer their vision of the crisis and watering dozens of related associations that preach the unique thought. [[applause]] Entering the 21st century and in exceptional moments like this, yes, but we lack essential elements in the proposal, such as: what do we mean by extraordinary situations? The identity of the speaker, the content of his interventions and the duration of their interventions by technological means were not guaranteed; real-time communication between the assistants was not guaranteed; the identity of the deputy was not guaranteed and the security and validity of the vote was not guaranteed. From VOX we will vote against, because it would mean that someone from Waterloo or from Lledoners prison could participate and vote in plenary sessions, and because the Government cannot be allowed to take control of the General Courts, which represent the Spanish people, in which national sovereignty resides, at such important times. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u222	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u223	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we, all Members, regardless of our character, ideology or training, represent all Spanish citizens, and it is our duty to dialogue, to debate, to contrast different visions of reality and to seek agreements or dissensions, but to grant each other, that we are transferring to this seat the opinion of forty-five million Spaniards who, having different ideas and sensibilities, live peacefully and share lives. It has already been said here: Parliament is defined by its capacity to deliberate. That is why it does not seem reasonable that when the Government promotes initiatives it will market the obtaining of votes, making concessions that have nothing to do with the initiatives, and once those votes are secured, it will make a parliamentary paripé and we will vote even before the debate. Having said that, everything seems absurd, and it is, but that is what we have seen in recent months. This has led many citizens to question the activity of parliamentarians and to lose strength one essential characteristic of parliamentarianism: the debate and the confrontation of ideas with serenity and listening to each other. We can all learn from each other. That is why it is very important for Parliament to be alive and for each of the three hundred and fifty Members to be able to bring our vision and transfer what the citizens tell us to this House. In this social reality lies the need for face-to-face work in Parliament. That is why my group has insisted that presence, debate, respect for rules, deadlines, rules and even tradition are essential in parliamentary life. However, a country can experience extraordinary situations such as the one we are living in, which need extraordinary solutions and in this case there is the possibility of delaying deadlines as in the payment of taxes, but in this mature democracy of what can never be dispensed with is Parliament's. The functioning of all the constitutional powers of the State without exception, but especially the Congress of Deputies, should not be interrupted during the states of alarm, exception and siege. My group believes that it is necessary to regulate the introduction of new technologies in Parliament in order to have prepared solutions that will allow absolute normality in the functioning of Parliament, even in exceptional situations. It has become clear that the initiative presented here today is not in that direction. It seems that, on the contrary, it wants to reduce the presence of Members in normal situations or to disregard the debate which - as I said earlier - is the essence of parliamentarianism. So, we don't see it right. If this initiative had wanted to avoid in the future what we have experienced these months: lack of control of the Government, suspension of the parliamentary initiative, vote before the debates, it would be positive. If it were in line with the fact that a certain majority can, because it has votes, act on the sidelines of the Rules of Procedure, we would find it inappropriate. We don't know what they want, or maybe we do. Of course, it has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, neither with democracy nor with parliamentarianism. There is technology that would have allowed Parliament to carry out its functions in a complete manner in the state of alarm. In Congress there are top-level professionals who would have made it possible. That has not been the case because there has been - and I say this more with regret than with criticism - a desire for Parliament to function slowly, without fulfilling its functions and transferring citizens that the government's actions made parliamentary life almost unnecessary. In recent months Parliament's control of the Government has been reduced: the committees and appearances have decreased, the deadlines have been suspended, the answers to our written questions have been non-existent or out of date or have been vague and insubstantial, many of them even sending us to press conferences. With a state of alarm, Parliament's control of the government should have been greater, but this has not happened. There are mechanisms with new technologies to make the Government's work transparent to Parliament. It has not been done because there has been no political will to do so. In recent months, not only have parliamentary groups' initiatives been debated, and even the motions for questioning, which are so traditional, have been suspended, but we have recovered them these days. They had been suspended because for technical reasons they could not be carried out; it was not so difficult, we are seeing it these days. We are also recovering after several months the debate on our GNP or our proposals for legislation. During these months, royal decree-laws have been approved and validated. In all of them, the Government has been given powers to do and undo beyond the normal legal framework. Was it justifiable? Yes, because of the exceptionality of the moment, but then those royal decree-laws should not have brought proposals so different that they obliged and submitted to the deputies or the disjunctive to vote yes, no or abstention to all the precepts jointly. We also need to change that, especially in exceptional times. It can be said that these royal decree-laws are being processed as draft laws, but the three hundred and fifty deputies know that this is a half truth because when these draft laws are discussed many of the situations regulated in those texts will have already been completed. In the state of alarm the plenary must be held normally and if it is not possible for physical reasons or health or safety recommendations, let us look for formulas that guarantee the invisibility or semi-presence required of us by the Constitution. Furthermore, we must assess and distinguish the meetings of the governing bodies from those of the functional bodies, such as the committees and the plenary, something which the initiative presented to us here does not distinguish either; we must adopt a new regulation of telematic voting; we must tackle an improvement of the technical systems to deal with exceptional situations, without, moreover, leaving aside the confidence-building measures of the vote, which are not advisable at all, but have happened these months. We must have the right technology, but it is not enough, because an institutional decision is needed to ensure that its use is adequate and that parliamentary guarantees are respected. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move forward, but let us not lose the essence of parliamentarianism and, above all, let us not lose the confidence of the citizens we all represent. For all that I have said, my group's vote will be negative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Casaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u225	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This crisis has put us in front of the mirror and has caused us to rethink many of our priorities, to reflect on what really matters and how essential is what keeps our society standing, putting the public in value, that is, what makes us equal and treats us all equally, regardless of our income. We agreed that we would not have been able to cope with the crisis without the dedication of so many essential workers who have remained on the front line to ensure that everything was going well, to ensure that everything worked and to take care of everyone, as well as the public sector such as health care, the State Security Forces and the teachers who have had to work in very difficult situations, or the workers of social services, who have done their best to meet basic needs and to combat dramas such as gender violence, which has been intensified by the conditions of confinement. Ladies and gentlemen, how do we explain this proposal to all these workers and to all these public servants? We too are public service and this plenary is one more essential activity. We have a responsibility to represent the Spanish people, to exercise the legislative and control functions of the Government. On our decisions, on our successes, depends the well-being and progress of our citizens. The representativeness of this House is an essential feature of the parliamentary debate. All of us and we assume political and social pluralism and have an obligation to offer all the guarantees for the formation of the will of the Spanish people as a whole and of the Spanish women whom we represent. This is the essence of our work and although in the times we are living it may seem a paradox, because of the biased and very distant attitude of the general interest practiced by the right-wing of this country, or because of statements such as those made a while ago by the proponent that we come here to monologize, we come to dialogue and come to agreements. This is something we have to remember every single day to be useful. In democracy, parliamentary debate is a key piece, provided it develops freely. It must be dynamic and without restrictions that could make it difficult to convince us to achieve the ultimate goal that is the right one in our decisions. It should be obvious that in situations of emergency and extreme need these guarantees should be strengthened and no attempt should be made to limit the capacity for autonomy, the capacity to propose or the search for agreements. It is undeniable that the digital revolution was already a reality, that the crisis of COVID has accelerated, and that during this time we have been able to experience its advantages and its drawbacks. I think we've all experienced what the limits of the screen are at this time. The absence of physical presence limits direct interaction between the interlocutors, makes negotiation less flexible and deprives us of aspects such as non-verbal communication. They will not deny that all these are very important factors so that we can carry out our work as expected of us, and that teleworking does not guarantee its effectiveness in each and every activity. On the other hand, it is not true that, in keeping with the measures required by the health authorities in the fight against the pandemic, the holding of plenary sessions and commissions in person prevented political participation, legislative action or control action by the Government. The numbers are explicit, objective and since the declaration of the state of alarm nine control sessions have been held to the Government - on the right it would have sufficed with one, because in its control sessions to the Government, of one argument, they have contributed nothing in any of the nine sessions - more than forty appearances in commissions and 17 royal decrees have been validated. The functioning of the Congress of Deputies has had to be adapted to the health recommendations, like so many other essential activities, by establishing a series of measures to adapt the holding of plenary sessions and committees to the exceptional circumstances prevailing during the health emergency, but by ensuring, in turn, the continuity of parliamentary activity and the full participation of Members in the adoption of the measures that have been transcendental to overcome the virus and to lay the foundations for socio-economic reconstruction. Telematic sessions have also been held for the functioning of the bureaux or for contact between the spokespersons or for meetings with any other group. The face-to-face nature of parliamentary activity is determined by our Constitution and reinforced by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which recently in its Judgment 19/2019 states - and I read literally - that 'the exercise of representative functions must be carried out, as a general rule, in a personal and face-to-face manner'. The Constitutional Court assumes that the voting decision itself can arise from the direct and immediate interrelationship between representatives, and therefore considers that 'parliamentarians need to meet face-to-face, since this is the only way to ensure that aspects which can only be perceived through personal contact can be taken into account'. In addition, he adds that 'in parliamentary procedures the interaction between those present is a fundamental element for the House to form its will. The formation of the will of the Chambers can only be carried out through a procedure in which debate and discussion are guaranteed.' Thus, only in this way - with the presence in this House - is it guaranteed not only the constitutionality of our decisions, but also the correct exercise of the political participation enshrined in article 23 of the Spanish Constitution. This point we are discussing today on the agenda not only impedes the fundamental right of political participation, since political participation is not only a right of all Members but also a duty. For all that, my group's view is unfavourable to the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, which we are dealing with here. It would be very desirable for the debate we have had to reflect on the legitimacy of the representative role of all the Members who are part of this House. To be democrats is to recognize that legitimacy and to promote constructive debate in order to be able to give real solutions to the real needs of Spanish and Spanish people who expect to be represented in this House. Discussion and decision-making must be in the content of the proposal and must never be biased by partisan issues that prevent us from doing politics. It is time to do a lot of politics, it is time for a lot of dialogue, it is time to do a transformative and useful policy to meet the challenges ahead. Let us show that we deserve the trust placed in us and ourselves, demand the capacity for dialogue and agreement, and, ladies and gentlemen of the right, leave behind parliamentarianism as a unique argument because unsolved frustrations or compulsive obsessions, apart from unhealthy ones, are a very damaging burden for the good of Spain. Let us dignify our work and this institution and remove them from the chastisement and insult. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u227	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on anti-corruption measures. For the defence of the initiative, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u228	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today is a day when I come up here to speak for the second time also about the fight against corruption and I present to you the proposal for a law of Citizens with which a comprehensive plan to fight against corruption is designed, to prevent corruption. Corruption is one of the great scourges of our society and produces three truly harmful effects: the first, with regard to the efficient functioning of the administrations; the second, the theft of millions of euros belonging to the Spaniards; and the third, the disaffection that citizens feel for public institutions by seeing that at the head of these institutions are people who come not to serve them but to use them. Millions of euros have been stolen, from everyone's money - because it's money from everyone, it's not that money that was said to be nobody's, billions of euros have gone in bribes, in bonds, in rigged contracts, in influence traffic, in 'pitufeo', in embezzlement, in the purchase of wills, in plugging, in chiringuitos, in nepotism, in the customer networks that have woven many political parties in many autonomous communities. But in addition, these fraudulent practices have led citizens not to believe in their institutions because they believe that people are in public office to get rich, and that generates a spectacular democratic deficit, because when people do not believe in their institutions they do not believe in democracy, and that is a breeding ground for populism and radicalization of ideas, as we have unfortunately been seeing with the scandals that have been mounted in the Congress of Deputies. From the Citizens' Group it is attempted that this does not happen again. There is also a third idea in citizenship, which is the idea of impunity, the idea that we are not all equal before the law, because people in that area of corruption are powerful, wealthy, have many springs and resources to go unpunished. I've been told many times by my friends when I was chasing a famous person who ended up in jail: don't believe you're going to be able with him. And in the end, it is the selfless officials, the investigating judges, the prosecutors, the public servants who, with great patience and effort, we end up seeing people who have used the Spaniards in prison. In the 40 years of democracy there are more than two hundred plots of corruption, and to end them only political will is needed, the political will of the political parties that, having been immersed in cases of corruption, now want to get out of that situation of corruption. We are not worth the competition over who is the most corrupt or who has been involved in the most serious corruption case, or who has stolen the most from the Spaniards with the policy of crossed fingers, of the 'and you more', that old policy that Citizens want to renounce. Today, parliamentary groups can say yes or no to corruption, and today it is not worth the abstention. Today I am asking you to vote in favour of taking into account this comprehensive anti-corruption plan because that vote means no to corruption. For forty years, bipartisanism and nationalism in acronyms such as the People's Party, the Socialist Party, and even the United Left, Convergência i Unió or the PNV bring to mind words such as the ERE, the Gürtel, Filesa, Mouse, Pujol, De Miguel, the training courses, the Punica, Lezo 3%, Bárcenas, the Palau case, the reserved funds. I have only 12 minutes, I cannot talk about all the cases of corruption that have occurred in all the major political parties in this House over the past 40 years. The politicization of institutions has also been precisely an issue that has favored corruption. The corruption experts, the Greek group, for example, say that precisely discretionary designations and discretionary cessations favor corruption in the Public Service. We are the second country in Europe, after Turkey, to have the most official posts, and that is also a leg to be dealt with in the fight against corruption. We need clean and effective institutions, we need politicians and people who hold public positions that are complete, exemplary and ethical. This law, which we present to you from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, aims to introduce more transparency, more responsibility and above all more effective means of prevention into the system. Because corruption is punished, yes, in the Criminal Code after long judicial cases where very complex plots of people who have done everything possible through effective legal and financial advice must be unravelled; large plots of corruption are very difficult to unravel, but they must be prevented. We must prevent politicians from getting their hands on the box, not receiving envelopes as we have unfortunately seen on so many occasions. We now have a historic opportunity because Directive 2019/1937 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the Statute for the protection of the complainant has been published. Let us take all the parliamentary groups that banner of political regeneration that citizens ask of us. We present this comprehensive anti-corruption plan on the basis of the design of this Statute for the protection of the complainant, which provides for the European directive to transpose it: an absolute confidentiality of the complainant's identity or alerter, as other parliamentary groups say in a name that we also think is right; total indemnity from the labor point of view; free legal and legal advice to the complainant; psychological assistance; information on where his complaint is going, and a reasoned resolution at the end of this procedure. This would be of no use if we did not, as we defend, put at the forefront of this procedure an independent authority of public integrity; an authority whose president is appointed by a broad consensus of this House and who can design the complaint channels, or in the parliamentary process we can all decide that it is the law itself that regulates these complaint channels, but with a very high sanctioning power in those cases where the complainant's protection status is broken. But there are more things like, for example, the prohibition of pardons for corruption. There have been cases in the history of Spain where it has been said - and is said - that those who are convicted of prevarication are not corrupt. Look at you, corruption is all the crimes that affect the public administration. Up to 2017, fifty-four persons have been pardoned for prevarication since 1996. The other day in the Committee on Justice we asked the Undersecretary of Justice how many predators had been pardoned and did not answer. This is truly alarming, therefore, because we do not know whether this Government wants to conceal that there are also pardons condemned for prevarication. The subsidiary responsibility of political parties for their senior positions must be regulated. Who has no doubt that the People's Party was responsible for Gürtel or that the Socialist Party was responsible for the EREs. For now, article 120 of the Criminal Code does not allow political parties to be condemned for what their leaders who have been elected by the political party and have not been sufficiently monitored in the management of everyone's funds. Article 440 of the Criminal Code should also be amended with regard to unjustified increases in the property of politicians. We all present our declaration of property and rights when we enter politics. Our salaries are public, how is it explained that afterwards we meet politicians that when we get out of politics we discover that they have become enriched? They will have to give an explanation at the penal court where they have taken that money from, whether they have received envelopes or prebendas; they will have to explain where they have taken that enrichment from. The maximum deadlines for criminal investigation, which we have already discussed, must be eliminated and, above all, the system of appointment of senior officials of the Administration must be reformed. We are open to all amendments. A number of texts have already been submitted by other parliamentary groups, which we believe have very good things and should also be included in our text. We therefore have a great deal of negotiating power. Why is it explained that this bill has this content? Because in its day we already introduced a more ambitious law and the People's Party and the Socialist Party ended up blocking it. We have gathered in this proposition of law only those things that we have already agreed on in your day by consensus, but it can be opened to more things. What I have said, for example, is the regulation of complaint channels, or also opening up the scope of the law to fight against corruption in the private sector, because we have only introduced in this law the fight against corruption to the public sector as an object. They vote yes to this consideration. I have spent my entire professional life fighting corruption and for me today it is a pride to come here, to the Congress of Deputies, to continue fighting against the corrupt, but I insist that there are no abstentions against corruption. It is only a no and that is not a yes to the consideration of our proposed law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u230	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In his precise speech, Mr Bal Francés has hardly recalled that his parliamentary group is re-editing a parliamentary initiative identical to that which he put forward in early 2017 in this very House. At that time, as reflected in the Diario de Sesiones, I supported the consideration of the proposed law on anti-corruption measures, although I reproached - I was not the only one who did - the opportunism of Citizens because he tried to take exclusive ownership of the concern for this great scourge for democracy and for the well-being of society that is corruption. Today, those arguments of 21 February 2017 continue to apply, but, unlike then, I do not consider this to be relevant, which suffers from some of the shortcomings that affected the disregard for the agreements that had already been adopted in the General Courts and to which Spain is now added the need to adapt its legislation to the directives of the European Union and, in particular, to those relating to the protection of persons reporting on infringements of Union law. This adaptation should not be made through a proposal by the parliamentary group; it must be made on the initiative of the Government. In this respect, it should be noted that the European Union published the directive in its official diary on 26 November, that is, only seven months ago, and it is understood that the prolonged extension and validity of the state of alarm by COVID-19 has disrupted the normal functioning of the administration, as has also disrupted the ordinary functioning of this Parliament. Nor do I agree with the creation of an anti-fraud office in the form of a state chiringuito and in clear disregard of the legal instruments that we have at our disposal in Spain and, in particular, of our officials. I am very surprised that Citizens have succumbed to such an idea, typical of the confused times of the pandemic, as the Government has been responsible for profusely perpetrating with the multiplication of charges to tutiplen. I believe that with the economic and material means by which this new authority proposed by Citizens is supposed to be nurtured, what we must do is to strengthen the existing instruments and provide the Prosecutor's Office and the police forces with the necessary funds to enable them to do their work more effectively. On the other hand, on many occasions, when new innovative and iconoclastic legislative measures exist to properly implement those that already exist and to increase controls in law enforcement, one must always seek to really solve the problem and not a broadcaster owner who says: New law of corruption. The proposal for a law is also not balanced in terms of the rights of the complainants, who also have them, because some of them may become innocent. Yes, because, although this bill seems to be forgotten, in our system there is the right to the presumption of innocence and to defence, and this implies legal principles, such as that the accuser must prove or that the accused must know what he is accused of in order to defend himself. Our system, as a rule, has been forcing the criminal complainant to be identified and even, in some cases, to demand an economic sum as a guarantee of the seriousness of his accusation. It has all the right of the world, and even the obligation, to bring to the attention of the authority facts that may constitute any wrongful act, but the defence of the accused must be guaranteed, which is understood by anyone who has certain legal notions and believes in a true rule of law. I note this because the law we are talking about does not establish any consequences for false complaints, which can also be anonymous and without referring to specific dates and alleged perpetrators. Has it really been thought of the consequences and the cost of verification for the public coffers that this can entail in practice? Article 6.3 of the bill goes so far as to unconditionally repeal the duty of professional secrecy, which we believe compromises the exercise of the right to defence proclaimed by article 24 of our Constitution. Therefore, we believe that in order to combat corruption in Spain and, without prejudice to implementing in our order in a more concrete way a figure such as that of the alerter of infringements in each of the existing normative texts in which it may have an impact, what must be done now is not to process any new law, but to better apply those we have and to control its effectiveness and compliance by providing funds to the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police at their service. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u231	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u232	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, surely many and many of us here - and one wants to believe that the majority of citizens - are concerned about corruption, but it is no less true that it also concerns many others. And I say that it is no less true, because more than two hundred cases of corruption in the Spanish State since the inauguration of this one that some define as a glorious democratic stage is not a small thing. The International Monetary Fund valued the real cost of corruption in April 2019 at EUR 60 billion, and that's no small deal. We could also take the April 2018 report of the Group of the European Greens, which amounted to EUR 90 billion. Either of the two, 90,000 or 60,000, points out that many and many of us will be concerned, but also a few of us. You said in the statement of reasons for the proposed law that you bring us here that this is a systemic problem that affects the heart of democracy. This is literal. I share it, what I do not understand is that, if this is a systemic problem, let us not look at the economic and political system that supports corruption. Corruption is not born out of the spurious will of a few to get rich from politics. Corruption is born out of a political system that makes misunderstood public-private collaboration a system of enrichment and puppet politicians at the service of the economic interests of fortunes forever. If that is the case - and at least for us and us, for the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, that is the case - we do not understand why the entire dimension of corruption persecution in the private sector is being denounced. If there are corrupt - and it is clear that there are them; surely in that we can also coincide many and many - it is no less true that there are corruptors. Someone needs the corrupt to keep agitating their profit margins, to keep taking money from everyone, and to keep expanding their business volumes. You were also saying that we had to talk about transparency, and yet we see how this House continues to deprive itself of the possibility of investigating facts that may have something to do with corruption, because we are talking about the charging of illegal commissions for EUR 2 billion by a figure of the state, in this case, of the king. But since we're talking about corruption and I'm talking about the corrupters, we'd have to see who were the people who accompanied the monarch on his trips to Saudi Arabia, who filled the plane that was going to Saudi Arabia and then brought business and how many commissions were bid and played there, because it seems that that's also reserved matter. It also seems that knowing the identity of those illustrious businessmen of the Spanish state who went with the emeritus king to Saudi Arabia to do business is reserved matter, and that is not something that can be very well married to the transparency with which you proclaim that it is necessary to equip the Spanish political system. They tell us about the corrupt - and I think it's quite obvious, they say what the courts say, which, in the eyes of the citizenry, are condemned on many occasions - and they don't talk about the corrupters. And it is not necessary to speak only of the Gürtel. I am not going to talk here about Correa, the Bigotes or others, because they are pieces of a gear, but we could talk about the curious coincidence that makes all politicians, of different signs, in different places of the Spanish state decide that the commission to be charged is 3%. Is there a corruption international that determines that 3% is the tariff stipulated as an ordinary fee to charge? Or are there corruptors who know that this is the toll they have to pay to obtain public work? That is the debate that we should have in this House and not these others, because if we do not enter into the debate about how some great builders have made fortune, we are probably putting back more filters, more anti-corruption offices, more public resources to pursue corruption, but corruption will continue to exist. It is not because I say it, the European Court of Auditors said it yesterday; it said that around the great transport works of the Spanish State - it speaks of the whole of the European Union, but it is fixed at six of the Spanish State - there are costs of more than 36 %, and one, by the way, passes through Basque soil, the Basque Y. This is probably where you have to put your eye on it and where you have to put all the resources to see why those overcosts occur and where the resources drawn from those overcosts go. You also said that tackling corruption is possible, that only political will is required. Totally agree, but, of course, that doesn't require any shortcuts, no envelopes, no godparents. And to rule with a party that has been condemned in the last decade on so many occasions and so soundly, more than the hammering of a computer's hard drive, is at least paradoxical. As I was saying, they tell us about transparency, but they don't tell us about the commissioners. I think it would be good for you to take the opportunity to talk about how the fortunes in the Spanish state were built in the 20th century, for example. There are books that already point this out, Francoism S.A., for example, by Antonio Maestre, and others. We could talk about how the fortunes are built, to see if they have really not been so much thanks to the effort and ingenuity of great entrepreneurs as to the ongoing commissions that have been being charged. And, of course, when we talk about commissioners, we have to talk about real commissioners, and I say that in every possible sense of terminology. We are told about the role of the courts, and it is important, but, as I have pointed out, when resetting or formatting a hard drive with thirty-nine hammers turns out not to be punishable, one tends to believe that what Bertolt Bretch said is true and that many judges are incorruptible, no one can induce them to do justice. But, as I told you, the IMF - to see that it does not take too biased sources - points out that corruption is the abuse of public power for a private gain. If the profit is private, it would be necessary to investigate those who make that private profit, as I am pointing out. In short, that the first and fundamental thing is that politics is ahead of the economy and that politics is in charge of the economy and not the other way around, because if the economy is in charge of politics, the economy decides that it has to have policies or puppet policies in order to be able to further expand its business margins. The IMF also said that the least corrupt states collect 4% more of GDP than the most corrupt, and Spain is not among the least corrupt; then there would also be an element to investigate. And we could also talk about taxation, because the IMF itself says that bribes, commissions, the complexity and opacity of the tax system, along with the large bids I have spoken about before, are the fundamental axes of the corruption trap. Well, if the opacity in the tax system is such, we would have to talk about taxation, we would have to talk about circumvention and tax evasion, we would have to talk about why money is taken to Switzerland or why money is taken - and in this House someone knows something about it - to Andorra; although sometimes they are not very careful, to Andorra; there they take the money so that it does not tax where it has to tax. I'm done. This debate on corruption reminds me of the annual debate on cycling around the International Cycling Union and doping. It turns out that it is impossible to catch them because private laboratories and private medical cabinets always go one step ahead; every shortcut or every brake they try to put doping with any doping substance is surpassed by the R+D+i of those laboratories, which I think are also of the great entrepreneurs. Tacitus said that many are laws in a corrupt state. I don't know if we need laws as much as a clear will to end this. Marcos Benavent already said this in the Commission on the irregular financing of the People's Party. This was the junk of money and perhaps what served him could serve much more than these laws. He was served by the Chamanic rites. As long as they don't get past the ayahuasca, the same thing they get into a path of righteousness that they don't seem to want to have.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u233	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u234	Thank you very much, President. It has already been said, but it is worth remembering. In the XII Legislature, in 2017, we take into consideration a proposed law of the Citizens Parliamentary Group almost identical to the one we are debating today. It was dismissed as opportunistic by a large part of the House when it tried to capitalize on initiatives that were born of consensus or that had been agreed to discuss them within certain study subcommittees. That initiative was recriminated for anticipating conclusions, even before the beginning of the work of the subcommittees, and also for separating itself from an agreement in the Committee on Justice, on the proposal of this parliamentary group, which called on the Government to submit a draft law on the protection of whistleblowers of corruption, given the legal complexity of the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being presented with the same text and by the same parliamentary group. However - it has already been pointed out - in this time the regulatory landscape has changed radically, and this has not been taken into account by Citizens. We are referring to Directive 2019/37 on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law, to be transposed before December 2021 or December 2023, for the private sector with between 50 and 249 workers. If it is not transposed on those dates, it will have direct effect, since its mandates are unconditional and sufficiently clear and precise and therefore can be invoked by any complainant before the Spanish courts. I would say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the directive, which is binding on the public and private sectors, must bring about major changes in the treatment given by the Member States to so-called alerters, and although it is true that it refers to complaints of infringements of European law, it is reasonable and logical for the Member States to conclude by determining that those same procedures and regulations are also designed to deal with the complaint of unlawful conduct, which is exclusively relevant to non-common, simple and purely procedural internal law and not to have two different legal regimes on the same subject, depending on whether the irregularity is for the common law of the Union or for non-common internal law in each Member State. The legislative initiative discussed does not take into account the legal framework of the Union, beyond the ritual quote, in two passages. The first, in the definition of acts of corruption, classifies as such offences of any criminal nature, criminal laws or special criminal laws, any administrative offences, responsibilities by scope, including bad practices, a reference which may be problematic because it does not conform adequately to the principles of typicality and legality, and which may imply a translation into the legal sphere of incoherent moral norms. And the second and final reference to the directive in the proposal for a law is in its article 11, when it states that the independent authority, when it receives complaints, must respect the conditionalities laid down in article 12 of the directive for external channels. Nothing more, not a single reference to the directive and its complete regulation on the unitary model that the proposal separates in relation to the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law. Ladies and gentlemen, just because of the above, taking into account the primacy of Union law and the remoteness of the text discussed therein, it will not count on our support. In addition, we will add that dealing with a matter of this nature and significance through a proposal for a law, means depriving this House of mandatory reports, in the pre-legislative processing, of the Fiscal Council, of the General Council of the Judiciary and of the Council of State; very relevant reports on the adequacy of the directive, on the desirability of dealing with complainants of infringements against the legal order, without distinguishing or distinguishing between those committed with respect to internal or Community ordinary law, and also reporting on other aspects of the initiative, no longer in connection with complainants of infringements, as I will explain below. Thus, the Independent Integrity Authority is not only going to play a role in relation to whistleblowers of violations, but is also expected to become a determining body in relation to the high and assimilated positions of the General Administration of the State, of the Autonomous Communities, and of the local authorities and their respective public sectors. It is proposed to participate in the process of appointing senior officials of the General Administration of the State, determining their suitability. It is also proposed that the management of its legal regime be carried out exclusively by assigning the functions of the Conflict of Interest Office to its conflicts of interest and incompatibilities of senior officials and its public sector in the General Administration, not only during the exercise of its functions, but also two years after its termination. It is also proposed that it exercise the sanctioning power over them, and that it may be terminated by a member of the Government of the State, a councillor of an autonomous Government and a non-elected member or high office of a local authority; these functions would also be assigned to the Independent Authority for the management of the sanctioning regime of good governance, as set out in Title II of the Transparency Act; functions which, so far, are the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, the Governing Council of the respective autonomous community or that of a local corporation. The initiative also seeks to amend the Criminal Code in several criminal types without any prior study, such as the creation of a criminal type with reversal of the burden of proof, breaking the accusatory principle that whoever accuses, proves, when much of the doctrine advocates that it constitutes a criminal type consisting in not being able to prove by the investigated person the illicit origin of his wealth, it should be so on the lack of collaboration and not on the crime of suspicion which, by the way, is proposed only for officials and high offices, but not on the rest of the citizenry. Also the initiative - I am finalizing, President - aims to amend the Law of Pardon to convicts of certain crimes. We do not share it; the right of grace does not take as a reference, except constitutional limitations, either the unlawful act or the lawful and lawful condemnation, but, where appropriate, the materialization of the principle of material justice or a concrete manifestation of the general interest, if considered by the Government, as the holder of the foreign and domestic policy of which criminal policy forms part, on the basis of article 97 of the Constitution. I'm done. It could continue with many more examples of aspects that we do not share in the initiative and that are not, moreover, sufficiently considered or resolved, such as the articulation of the powers of the Independent Authority with the judiciary and the police itself, calling into question the exclusivity of the judiciary to prosecute acts that may constitute a crime. Ladies and gentlemen, for all that I have said, the initiative discussed will not have the support of our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u235	Thank you, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u236	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG says no, frankly, to corruption, and our trajectory, moreover, supports it; another thing is that we probably have a different idea of the causes and also, therefore, of how to combat it. Without the desire to caricaturize but to synthesize, what they propose fundamentally, beyond the protection of whistleblowers, of whistleblowers, is to create a new body to fight corruption. Is that the way when the Justice Administration, which should be democratised, is not yet adequately scaled up for this? Please note that even the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is not territorialized; there are delegated prosecutors'offices in some autonomous communities, not in Galicia, for example. We need an effective administration of justice and for that we want to have a Galician judiciary adapted to our needs and dimensioned to tackle these crimes or this type of crime, such as economic crime, which does not seem to be a priority. But that's not even the main problem; the problem, in our opinion, is that corruption is systemic and structural in the 78's regime, so it seems, so we're seeing, so we're reading, from who exercised the Head of State down, and basically it starts in the BOE. Or is it not the privatization of public services and the procurement or concession processes to private companies, usually large companies, and not more than a dozen, which is at the root of most corruption cases? Let us necessarily establish direct public administration of public services by administrations and you will see how corruption is drastically reduced. That would be a step that the BNG would unquestionably support. And I end with one question: Are you really willing to investigate corrupt practices in the public administration? Well, start by investigating the corruption of the Bourbons, practiced, as far as is known, so it is investigating the Prosecutor's Office of Switzerland and also the Supreme Court, from the Head of State. If it is not done, if you, PSOE, PP and VOX, who systematically oppose in the Bureau to create a commission of inquiry, are about to hide the evidence of corruption of the Bourbons, you will be contributing to socially legitimizing these practices, no matter how much you say you want to fight them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u237	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u238	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that everyone agrees and it is difficult to deny that corruption is a democratic and economic scourge in our country, and in times of discussion about reconstruction it seems clear to say that as long as we do not close the hole of corruption, we can waste a lot of efforts that will go to waste if we fail to close what is a systemic problem. It is true that the Group of the Greens has a figure of 90 billion a year in Spain. To go to a source that no one will doubtably question, the International Monetary Fund amounts to EUR 60 billion a year, which Spain no longer perceives because of corruption. That's 4.5% of our GDP, that's more than we spend the year on education, that is, investment for our future. In addition, everyone knows that he humiliates sovereignty, because the one who pays to corrupt wants to get something by paying that he does not get with the rules or with the votes, and also sows distrust in the institutions and in our own society. This, of course, is not a problem that there are some people who are bad. So much so - I will not cite the example so that it does not withdraw from the Diario de Sesiones -, which seems to reach the highest levels, according to the Swiss Prosecutor's Office and the Spanish Prosecutor's Office. And it's not a problem of the form of state that everyone prefers, it's a problem of the rule of law if someone by their surname is above the law or not. We have had many doubts about this proposal that you bring, and you know it, because we have talked about it. We believe it is clearly better, but we also believe that we need to move the process forward in order to adopt advanced regulations. Let's be clear, in this Congress we've been in a race for a long time to see who registers their anti-corruption law, to see who signs it. It will not offend you if I tell you that the one that we prepare from More Country is better than this one that you defend - it is normal, if not, we would not present it -, and yet it seems to me that the important thing is not who the signature is, that we launch a proposal that allows us to develop advanced anti-corruption legislation. I say to you three things that, in our opinion, are essential for you to meet at least some of the challenges we face. First of all, you have almost nothing to do with the recently adopted European Directive on the Protection of Anti-Corruption Alerters and, of course, the time has passed, as the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party pointed out. Secondly, you speak exclusively of the complainants, but you skip the figure of the whistleblowers, of the alerters, with which many people who want to give information about cases of corruption, but who may not dare or are not willing to enter judicial proceedings, stay on the road and we cannot count on their information. This is not a detail, it is absolutely crucial. And thirdly - this is a discussion that you and I have -, ideology always hangs out the window and surprisingly there is nothing about corruption in the private sector but, almost always, when someone receives it is that someone is paying. I want to think that this will not be an ideological prejudice, but corruption is in both of you and you always point it out in one. And lastly, and these shortcomings would have been saved, they have not contemplated any of the contributions of the organizations that have been working in this regard for a long time: Corruption, Transparency International, Xnet, More Democracy and the Catalan anti-fraud agencies, the Valencian Country and the Balearic Islands. We want it to begin to be discussed, we will support it and we hope to improve it in the process and in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u239	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Finally, by the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bal, this happens to the small groups, that we Members have to go out and talk about all the issues. When you have spoken before you have missed a thing that has given me the key, and it is when you say we resubmit, because I am convinced that this proposition that you have come to defend has not been written by you, I do not doubt your good intentions, but I, who have had you against in the room and we disagree on many occasions, recognize you that you are a good jurist, and I am convinced that this has not been written by you because the wording is clumsy and the moment is inappropriate. He's had a virtue, and they just showed it to him. This proposal does not cover Directive 1937/2019, but today, precisely - and I suppose it is a reaction - the Ministry has announced that the Codification Commission has already met to implement the transposition of the Whistleblowers Directive. They have therefore had some merit, so we hope that the time limit for transposition of directives will be met for the first time. It does not contemplate it, although then there is a reference to adapt that which you have already taken out of the trunk of memories, and then the organizational and regulatory vein is gone and you create, in order to try to simplify, the independent authority of public integrity with its director, its steering committee, its divisions and directors of divisions, advisory committees and all this at the central level autonomous level, which I miss in you, by the way. In addition, it has such a complex regulatory development that reminds me of that time when, in order to simplify the administrative structure, the Directorate-General for Deburocratization was created with the General Directorate for Simplification of Administrative Procedures and the General Directorate for the Elimination of Superfluous Organisms. It seems to me that its regulation, its proposal, is not in line with the directive, which is absolutely unnecessary when it is necessary to transpose the directive and, as always, use it to introduce a number of final clauses - Pisuerga -. By the way, the Pardon Act of 1870, the Criminal Prosecution Act of 1882, is being amended, and many laws have been reformed since then. Therefore, I believe that you pose it in a somewhat demagogic way. It has made it very complicated for me: a yes that is a no, a no that is a yes. Ours is going to be a no, a no to corruption, but a no to your proposal. I think you're in a position to do something much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u241	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u242	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bal, it is very appropriate for us to talk about the fight against corruption here today, where we are prevented from talking about real corruption, yes, real corruption of the Bourbons. Obviously that we talk about fighting corruption we like Republican Left very much, it is part of our principles and our values as Republicans and Republicans. I recently read an article that reminded me of 25 September 2017, when Mr José Jover Pradó, who is a lawyer specializing in European law, and Mr Luis Gonzalo Segura, a member of the Platform for Honesty, who appeared in the Constitutional Commission of this House, reminded his lords of Citizens that Europarlamento was dealing with a rule identical to its proposed anti-corruption law, presented on 15 September 2016, which would have the form of a directive, and that the Spanish rule should be adapted to that directive. His proposal for a law was forgotten after his appearance. Three years later you resubmit a new proposal for a law on anti-corruption measures, but it is basically a copy of the previous one, as has already been mentioned here. Three years later and with the directive already in force, they think nothing more than to put on the table again that rule which no one, we suppose, of Citizens remembers of why, of the reason for the forgetfulness of the previous one. I ask you the same question that Mr José Jover asks you in an article this week: Have you not heard that there is already a rule that regulates the mechanisms for combating corruption and against the interests of the Union and therefore there is no need to create another, because it will be deactivated from the first ones of change? Ipsi literals. Ladies and gentlemen, we owe a great deal to the struggle of organised civil society for the mandatory transposition of the European directive to protect those who warn against abuse by the factual powers. We highlight, for example, the Xnet platform, just mentioned by comrade Íñigo Errejón, who managed to elaborate the first version of the transposition in Europe, was the first proposed law that was registered in December last year in this House with the support of More Country, Compromís, the Block and the Republican Left. We agree with the Xnet Platform in the concern that a biased interpretation of the directive would not only transform its transposition into a wet paper into Spanish law, but could lead to an even worse situation for people who bring corruption, abuse into the public eye, so that our proposed law, that of the parties together, integrates the more rigorous experiences of other countries and adapts the elements of the European directive by deepening the aspects that depend on their national transposition. It must therefore serve as a reference for maintaining the highest degree of protection for all people who want or have to face the asymmetry of power for the common good. The way in which parliamentary activity works is in itself a problem for these objectives. The protection of alerters should have their own law. The fact that it is included in another law on a subject as broad and necessary as the fight against corruption entails the strong possibility of neglecting nuances that will then pay dearly to those who need it. His bill could therefore end up being a skilful operation to deactivate the directive and continue to leave reprisals to those who dare to bring out all abuses. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against your bill for a number of reasons. There are too many loopholes, ladies and gentlemen. In the proposal for a law of whistleblowers and whistleblowers there are traps, from our point of view. It leaves many unprotected, does not consider lawsuits/retaliatory, obliges viacrucis to alerters and ill-called whistleblowers to protect themselves. It does not cover just what the mandatory transposition directive calls for. In short, gentlemen, you want to leave unprotected citizens who uncover systemic abuses of corruption. We detail some, just a few grievances based on our proposed law, the 2019 joint, and also, how about, collecting the assets of social movements, in this case I rename the Xnet platform, which have our utmost recognition for the enormous work they have been doing for a long time. First, not just corruption; putting all the emphasis on corruption carries the risk of helplessness for those who expose abuses in many other areas from health, the environment to justice, democracy, etc. Two, it should not only cover the public sector, ladies and gentlemen. Its proposition leaves in a tremendous insecurity those who work in corporations. We believe that we cannot be more lax with companies that can damage the common good with the argument that they create jobs. Three, prevent; it is understood that the alleged facts have already been committed, without taking into account the possible commission of irregularities in the future and also in the present, and does not consider the irregularities that may be committed outside Spanish territory as a result in State territory. Four, not only the person but also the one who helps her uncover the abuses must be protected. Five, the definition of whistleblower already exists in Spanish law, that is, it cannot be used to speak of whistleblower because they are two very different things. To do so would remove the main protections for the latter figure. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Sixth, the anachronism of not defending anonymity. Its preposition provides for anonymity, but in a confusing way and contradicts itself when it guarantees only the confidentiality of the channel configuration. I have more reasons, but I have to finish. On yesterday's news, also named here Mr Alonso-Cuevillas, about the meeting of the General Codification Commission to work on a rule that combats crime and corruption, within the section of public law, is already in charge of preparing the proposal for an articulated text that they intend to raise for approval - they say - before 2 December. We also recall that the deadline for transposition of the directive is 17 December 2021. The Republican Group hopes that it will be done as soon as possible and that it will take absolutely all the proposed part of our proposal for a law of comprehensive protection of alerters, of 11 December 2019, the joint...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u243	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u244	... to make the transposition as safe as possible in accordance with the objectives of the directive. Thank you very much, and thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Márquez Guerrero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u246	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In today's bill presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, there are strong words and strong statements about the fight against corruption which, in fact, they present as a systemic problem affecting the heart of democracy itself. You are talking about an ambitious law that will address the problem of corruption in all areas by which it extends. Beware, ladies and gentlemen, beware of the abusive use of language! Salustius had already warned us. Political slogans, empty political discourses of their full meaning become mere nominating, hollow words. I say this because your proposal is not ambitious; of course it is not ambitious and clear that it does not address corruption in all areas in which it expands. Indeed, even if you do not do so explicitly in the explanatory statement, it is a question of transposing, as has already been said, the European directive on the protection of the complainant of acts of corruption, but you do not transpose it in a rigorous and complete way; in fact you reduce protection and in fact narrow the very concept of corruption. If we had to define corruption I think we would probably all agree that it is the result of confusing private interests and public interests. That is why I would like to make it very clear that corruption is not only to obtain illicit advantages from the public administration; corruption is to privatize all the public; corruption is to privatize health, which saves us; corruption is to privatize education, which forms us, which allows us to develop a full social function in our lives; corruption is to do business with the residences of our elders; or, also, corruption is to articulate mechanisms that allow the rich to pay taxes. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in democracy, yes, in democracy is corruption any attempt to exploit public institutions to benefit a minority and against the interests of the social majority. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, your concept of corruption seems very narrow to me, perhaps that is why you are bringing us a proposal for a law that is insufficient, technically deficient and a little opportunistic in your political interest. First of all, it is an insufficient proposal for a law because, considering that corruption is a systemic problem, you simply present a law of isolated, dispersed measures. Your Honor, an effective anti-corruption law must necessarily be an integral law, as set out in the coalition government agreement. And an integral law - yes, Your Honor - must start with a rigorous diagnosis, must coordinate all the institutions involved in the fight against corruption, of course, and must also address the phenomenon of corruption in all its dimensions, with a coherent and multidisciplinary approach. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, you have forgotten about fundamental issues such as lobbies or revolving doors that directly attack the heart of democracy. Nor do they bring any concrete improvement in matters such as transparency, incompatibilities, public procurement, rigging, acceptance of gifts. And, as has already been pointed out by the previous ladies and gentlemen who have spoken, they do not deal with private corruption when for a decade it has been considered a crime in our country and for whose uprooting we would have to implement all possible measures, preventive measures and structural measures. Secondly, the proposed legislation is technically deficient because, of course, progress must be made in protecting the rights of the complainant of corruption, people who risk their jobs, people who put their personal and job security at risk. Of course the public authorities have to back them up, protect them, they have to shield their rights, but it is that you have remained very short, you have remained very far from the European directive. Of course, the European directive is much more ambitious in every respect. In fact, you restrict so much the content of the European directive that you grant a lower level of protection to the complainant. By the way, it does not seem to us serious that they include an amendment to an organic law affecting the Criminal Code in a final provision of a proposal for ordinary law. [[Rumors]] Yeah. As for the independent authority they intend to create, I say to you that they do not clearly define their functions in relation to the functions of the judicial bodies and in relation to the functions of other existing specialized bodies, for example in the field of intervention or public procurement. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunist law proposal because you are flying the flag of the fight against corruption with proposals from others, some sensible, timely, led by my parliamentary group, UN We can, like the repeal of the so-called Berlusconi Law, but it is that you include it in a text that you know as a whole is insufficient and unsustainable. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to fight corruption, work with the Government to adopt a national plan and a truly comprehensive law. Review your policies of pacts in the autonomous communities because you govern, for example, in Castile and León with the counselor who, as King Sun, says: The Administration is me. [[applause]] I'm just finishing up. And here, in the Community of Madrid, with Mrs Ayuso, who is not responsible either for the residences of older people or for her own residence. [[Protests]] If you really want to fight corruption, state in favour of investigating the alleged corruption that surrounds the monarchy because to be credible, ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against corruption you must start by being consistent. For all this, my parliamentary group will vote against. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Marquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Hearing the speeches that have preceded me, especially the last of the representative of the United Nations Podemos, and seeing the efforts that not a few groups are making to justify the unjustifiable, I will not allow it. Efforts are being made to lay the groundwork for transferring an unsustainable position to public opinion, which they are adopting today when they have announced that they will not support the consideration of the proposed anti-corruption law. You, all those parliamentary groups that are going to vote no or abstain today by not supporting these measures, what you are doing is abandoning whistleblowers of corruption; you are doing nothing else, you are abandoning them. And now, if you want, we talk about legislative techniques, we talk about old-age residences, we talk about, we talk about everything you want, but the reality is this: you are saying today not to give an adequate framework of protection, which can be improved, as we do, because for that we are the Legislator; you can submit returns amendments with alternative text, you can submit amendments to the article, but, ma'am, what are you telling me, that we support the government to legislate? The legislator is you, not the executive! [[Applauds]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, you will hear true stories of terror. Today this parliamentary group, the VOX Parliamentary Group is going to pay tribute to the complainants, to the corruption alerters, mentioning some cases. And you, ladies and gentlemen, are going to hear real cases, not science fiction. Theodoro Montes - they will listen to the names of those who have abandoned and who today, saying no or abstaining, continue to abandon -. Mr Montes is the official who denounced in Seville the fraud of the training courses of the Andalusian Junta under the government of the Socialist Party, the one known as the Edu case. Mr Montes denounced serious irregularities in the granting of training grants by the Board during the Socialist Party stage of the Board. From that moment on, Mr Montes began a real calvary for the harassment he was subjected to. Reincorporated after a break, the first thing he found was that, despite being head of his department, his job, his office had been occupied by another partner. The next step was to ignore him, he was not assigned any work and his functions were reduced to the minimum expression. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I'm not boring you. He suffers from an isolation that reaches such a point, that they raise a physical partition to isolate him from the rest of the office and his companions. They sandwiched him. Do you know who the employer was? The Andalusian Junta. This is Mr. Montes' story. To this is added the opening of multiple unjustified disciplinary files. And do you think there was the harassment that Mr. Montes suffered? Not at all. Mr. Montes was arrested by the police and charged with prevarication and documentary falsity. That same police officer who later had to protect him by applying the measures contained in the Law on the Protection of Denunciators and Witnesses when his lordship Alaya declared him a protected witness. Thanks to Mr Montes' denunciation, there will be a fraud that affects more than 200 million euros of public money. That is the figure of alleged corruption. Mr. Montes ended up in a deep depression. I could also mention to you the case of Mr Fernando Urrutikoetxea, a municipal agent, who in 1987 began to provide services in a municipality in Vizcay. There he reported to the mayor, when he was simply an acting official, serious irregularities in terms of urban planning and public procurement, do you know where he ended up? They moved their job to a barracks where the municipal police stored the traps. The next thing was to try to fire him, and in 1991 he obtained one of the first convictions of an Administration for labour harassment in the public sector. Mr Urrutikoetxea withdrew the opposition as an intervener, as he thought that the status of a firm civil servant would give him a greater shield. Poor thing! Your struggle for decency and public integrity led you to multiple destinations, until you call in the municipality of Castro Urdiales, Proconor case, sounds to you, ladies and gentlemen? In his own words, this public official found there a widespread criminal situation. His refusal to be complicit with his signature or with his silence of corruption amounted to an extraordinary personal and professional cost; he ended up getting sick, until years later a judge decided to take his reports seriously. Hence the entry and registration of the UCO of the Civil Guard and the conviction of fifteen public officials, including two mayors, which averages a serious depression of the intervener. Finally, I will tell you about Mr Roberto Macías as a paradigmatic case of what corruption alerters in our country have to suffer. It was Mr Macías who alerted the alleged fraud by UGT-Andalucia with false invoices, which he has now assumed, in the opening decision of the oral trial, that a bail be imposed on the aforementioned trade union of 40 million euros. Do you know who's already been convicted? Mr Macías, because, suspicious of judicial independence, he warned of fraud, of alleged fraud through the media by filtering the allegedly false invoices. And that cost him a sentence in May of two years in prison. I cannot mention with greater attention Mr. Ana Garrido, Mr. Ainhoa Alberdi, Mr. Arantxa Mejías, Mr. Luis Gonzalo Segura and Mr. Lola Mesa, but I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that today, from their seats, they are very comfortable judging the lives of those who give it all for taking care of the public era, for taking care of ethics and public decency. [[Applauds]] And it is to them, and not to Citizens, to whom today they are saying no or to whom today they are saying that they abstain. We can understand abstention, refusal, not promoting legislative measures to date on the protection of whistleblowers from corruption and the fight against corruption. In a very simple graph, which is not completed - there were missing cases that affect the Basque Nationalist Party, new cases that affect other political parties and, what I can promise you, what will end up coming out - but, of course, ladies and gentlemen, what we have as a new milestone today are the autonomous regulations that have already been approved, such as the Valencian Law of the year 2016 approved by the Valencia Agency for the fight against fraud and corruption, for my paradigm of what has to be implemented at state level, thanks in large part to its director, Mr Llinares. [[shows a graph]] Gentlemen of EH Bildu, you have forgotten to mention that you in the Basque Country submitted a bill to implement a similar office. I understand that their agreements with the Basque Nationalist Party now make them forget that supposed will to fight corruption. The directive that came into force last December 2019 on the comprehensive protection of alerters is the way in which the Member States are to take the measures we have to take. It was going to be much harder in this speech - I conclude now, Madam President -. We're going to support you, Mr. Edmundo Bal. I hadn't said it, but with VOX there'll never be any doubt on which side we're on, we'll never be next to the corrupt. We will support them, although we do not share the content. In February, we presented a complete transposition of that Community directive, which focuses on the comprehensive protection of whistleblowers of corruption, because we know that today in Spain - and I have given very concrete examples - whistleblowers of corruption have to become involuntary heroes because of the personal and professional cost of their acts of bravery. They look very comfortable, ladies and gentlemen, very comfortable, but they have left lives on the way. Today they had the opportunity to sit on the right side, and not to sit on the side of the corrupt.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u249	Mrs. Olona, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u250	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u252	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to support the consideration of this initiative, which is almost identical to that discussed in this House three years ago and which has as its main objective the protection of whistleblowers of corruption in the public sector, along with other measures that have already been mentioned, such as, for example, the prohibition of pardon in certain crimes or the new criminal type of the crime of unjust enrichment; an initiative that seeks to advance the principle of accountability of public officials by limiting discretion in recruitment and strengthening transparency, that is to say, the opposite of what this Government has done during the pandemic; an initiative, in the end, which can complement the plan to combat corruption more and more ambitious of our democracy, which was adopted during the Government of Mariano Rajoy, in which, in addition to the Law on Transparency, introduced in our legal system more preventive and control measures and more early warning mechanisms to ensure that corrupt behaviour was increasingly difficult, that the measures of the Office are effectively discovered and that the facts are more easily recorded, that the results are being done, that the prosecution is more effectively and that the results are carried out. As you will see, the legislator's response to fight corruption is neither new nor exclusive to his parliamentary group, gentlemen of Citizens. But it is clear that laws can be improved, and this initiative, with its shortcomings, which it has, gives us the opportunity to move forward and put in new deterrent walls to prevent these irregular practices. And I am glad that this debate has not become that parliamentary contempt tournament and that contest of accusations, instigations and disqualifications to which some had accustomed us in the past when they came up to this rostrum, where only the cases that affected my party were pointed out, while looking elsewhere, the cases that affected others were hidden or lowered. I imagine that some of you should now give a little blush, after the cases we've known in the last few months. In any case, I am glad that we agree that corruption has no acronym or political colour. It has the color of money and lack of scruples and almost all of us have had in our ranks people who, unfortunately, had come to politics to take advantage of it. Therefore, let us not use corruption to attack the adversary, let us fight corruption together to end the corrupt, which is a different thing. That is also what the Spaniards, whom we represent, want, and that is our task as legislators, let us not confuse the seat with the stand. We cannot change the past, but we can agree to legislate so that in the future many cases do not occur again. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all agree that there is nothing more despicable and more harmful to politics and institutions than corruption, because it involves not only the failure of the principle of legality, but also the failure of the principle of trust, which is the essence of our representative system. That is why it is so important to pursue it with all our strength and come from wherever it comes from, without distinction of ideas, territories or professions. That is, fortunately, what is happening, that the system is working, that corruption cases are known, investigated and brought to justice. That is most important, because the worst corruption is the one that is not known, because that is the one that always goes unpunished. That the cases are in the hands of justice is the guarantee of the clarification of the truth on the basis of proof and the law; yes, ladies and gentlemen, respecting the law, which is how things are judged in a rule of law. I know some people don't like that. They are the same people who criticize the judiciary when they receive an unfavorable sentence, the same people who sometimes act as vigilantes, trampling on the principle of presumption of innocence of their rivals, forgetting that this principle is the one that differentiates a rule of law from another that is not. That is the way some have to regenerate democracy and strengthen the rule of law. How hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, how obscene and rude double measuring rod we have lived in recent years depending on whether the cases affected one or the other. And how much Phariseism, because at times it has lynched without foundation and without regard to many politicians who were innocent, who had always been innocent, without anyone then responding to it. [[Applauds]] Some thought should also be given to avoid extending responsibility beyond those who have it in the future. Therefore, let us fight with the utmost force against corruption, but let us always do so respecting the guarantees of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. I already know that some people do not look for that and prefer to continue to convey a dirty image of politics and a climate of widespread suspicion of the institutions, in an attempt to discredit our system in order to replace it. They have already heard a number of interventions that have been made by some speakers in this rostrum. But know that they are not going to get it and that there will be the People's Parliamentary Group to prevent it. And that is also your responsibility, gentlemen of the Socialist bench. You have been able to fool your voters by agreeing with Podemos and Bildu, when in election campaign you all promised over and over again that you weren't going to do it. They have preferred to govern with the radicals and the independenceists rather than with the constitutionalists, and now they may be thinking of opening a new constituent process as a payment to their government partners, so long as they remain in power, even if this involves putting at risk the best that the Spaniards have done in our history, which has been the political transition. Well, if that's what they're trying to do, make sure we don't go with them on that trip. We will be where we have to be, defending the harmony, understanding and values of transition. We will stand by the principles that we have always defended. We will be at the side of freedom, the unity of Spain, equal rights and solidarity among the Spanish and defending constitutional Spain. We'll be next to what most Spaniards want. You can be sure of that, too. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u253	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Crespin Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u254	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is my first speech in the rostrum, and I must say that it is a great pleasure to do so on behalf of the Socialist Group in a debate like this, a debate on a fundamental issue for the strength and the future of our democracy, for the improvement of our institutions and, above all, for the credibility of politics, with capitals, in its task of defending the public interest and combating corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, in the collective tasks and commitments of reconstruction we must also have among our priorities to rebuild a clean and honest Spain. The Socialists consider that to be the case, and I do not think anyone has any doubt about that today. We are the party that led a motion of censure against corruption and won the majority of citizens' confidence, because citizens only believe in the facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] We know that Spain is still far from this, and hence the initiative already registered by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to transpose as soon as possible the directive of October 2019, promoting a normative text endorsed by the reports of the advisory bodies required to enable us to improve our position, but above all to meet the objectives in this area. This is our commitment, from the full conviction of the need to safeguard democratic quality and confidence in the institutions. That is why the Government agreement expressly includes the adoption of a comprehensive anti-corruption law, which will also include the complainant's status. That is our job, to present from the government a bill, in which I already announce - and they know it, because the government has expressed it - that work is being done to transpose the directive. It has already been said here that the text is in the General Codification Commission. In short, that is what this proposal for citizens' law proposes, although it does not even reflect it in the explanatory statement, which we understand, ladies and gentlemen, because it is an old text, an outdated text. There are many aspects of this proposal that obviate the directive or even directly contradict it. If we took this proposal into consideration, we would not have the reports and would start with an inadequate text. That is why I must express our unfavorable vote. By the way, a group of experts on the subject also calls for the rejection of this proposal for a citizens' law. But we want to give reasons that lead us to this, because, as has already been said, this is a serious and transcendental issue, which requires rigour in arguments and positions. And we also want to express our extended hand, our willingness to be able to include many of the considerations that other groups can make in this regard. Our opposition, ladies and gentlemen, is not to that intention of ambitious regeneration to which you refer. Conversely, we want to do so with the precise instrument as soon as possible and with the greatest guarantees. After our study and analysis, we consider this to be a grandiose text in its terms and utterances, but it is not complete, ladies and gentlemen. If we really want a democratic regeneration, with regard to that concept that they use so much, but that not by using it much has direct effect, we must be more consistent and demanding in our proposals and actions. Since article 1 itself, on the definition of its object, this proposal for a law is confined only to the public sector, and not to the private sector, and this means a reduction in the scope of what is already provided for in the directive. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a teacher and a mother, and you will be with me in which words are dwarfs and giant examples. Gentlemen of Citizens, Mr Bal, gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of VOX, present here this proposal for a law, but they approve in Andalusia - the government of the People's Party supported by Citizens and VOX - what we have called the decree of deregulation. You have used as an excuse the pandemic and as a false account the administrative agility to validate a decree that minimizes controls - ladies and gentlemen, listen, minimizes controls - and allows what already led us to the worst economic crisis in this country, which led us to the 2008 crisis. You will remember, ladies and gentlemen - we will all remember - the urban plot. [[Applauds]] Corruption is one of the main enemies in environmental decision-making. You once again put at the service of particular interest the future of future generations. The only green economy that seems to know the right are just golf courses or privatize the management of a parking lot in a public hospital, as is the case with the Reina Sofia Hospital in Cordoba, which we have just denounced today. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] This Government will no doubt appeal that Andalusian decree to the High Court. You'll be with me, ladies and gentlemen, where you'd better be careful. We must do what we preach, and, whenever possible, prevention is the best cure. Decisions like this do not prevent corruption, lead us to moral and ethical deterioration and, above all, to economic impoverishment. Nor is this proposal, Mr Bal, an integral provision for combating corruption, since it does not fully address the cycle: neither prevention, as I have already said, nor detection, nor recovery, because, ladies and gentlemen, who takes the pay and pays it, is it not? On the other hand, it does not refer to the protection of the persons complained of, which is indeed covered by the directive. Ladies and gentlemen, to dignify politics and the public begins by dignifying and protecting the work of all those who are dedicated to it. In this, as in everything in life, there are tricks, shortcuts, the evil to lose, the one I denounce before sweating the T-shirt, manipulations. Does that ring a bell? lynchings, malicious reports. We have it very recently in the case of 8 March, although, fortunately, truth and justice have been imposed. [[Applauds]] But there are times, ladies and gentlemen, that these kinds of actions end up destroying the person, his family, unjustly staining the name of a political party, of all, and the worst, and we must resolve it among all, generating mistrust in institutions and in politics, with capitals, as I said before. With regard to the creation of the independent authority of public integrity, they do not seem to talk so much about chiringuitos, although I have to say that there are several bodies that are already working on the fight against corruption and fraud, and we must therefore avoid duplicity. Similarly, the wording of this proposal is sometimes confusing and several concepts are not understood.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u255	Mrs. Crespin, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u256	I'm done, President. I'll finish the way I started. Let no one have the slightest doubt that the PSOE will continue to work for what our president committed to in this very place on the day when, for the sake of cleanliness and democratic health, we presented the motion of censure. The favorable votes, he said, are to get corruption out of politics and to talk again about what is important for people, their rights, their freedoms, the progress and progress of our country. The Socialist Group is aware that this is a complex work, because the phenomenon of corruption is also very complex. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Cordobese, let us stick to the quotation and teaching of Seneca: What laws do not prohibit can prohibit honesty. As soon as we move forward, let us make Spain an honest and clean country. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u257	Thank you, Mrs Crespin. In three minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. No-law propositions. No bill proposed by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the gender perspective in prison policy. [[EAJ-PNV]] We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Republican, Plural, Citizens, Vasco, Euskal Herria Bildu and Mixto, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 236 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 64 plus 146 telematics votes, 210; against, 50 plus 90 telematics votes, 140.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u259	The non-legislative proposal was approved. - OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, MR. MAZÓN RAMOS, ON THE STATUS OF ELECTRONISIVE CONSUMERS TO GUARANTEE THE COMPETITIVENESS OF THE INDUSTRIES CONCERNED. [[File number 162/000139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u260	No legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the status of electrointensive consumers to ensure the competitiveness of the industries concerned. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist, Popular Parliamentary Groups in Congress, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Republican, Citizen and Mixed Groups, Mr Mazón Ramos. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 234 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 111 plus 230 telematics votes, 341; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 3 plus 3 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u261	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u262	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to clarify the constitutional impact of the Bureau meeting between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia held on 26 February 2020. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 236 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 52 plus 101 telematics votes, 153; against, 61 plus 134 telematics votes, 195; abstentions, 1 plus 1 telematics vote, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u263	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected. - OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, Señor DEVEDO ITURB, ON THE POLICIES TO BE DEVELOPED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO ENFORCEMENT THE CONCEPTIVITY AND RECOVERY OF TOURISM IN CANADIANS. [[File number 173/000010]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u264	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, on the policies to be developed by the Government of Spain to promote connectivity and the recovery of tourism in the Canary Islands. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist, Popular and Mixed Parliamentary Groups, Mr Quevedo Iturbe. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 by telephone, 347; in favour, 110 plus 221 by telephone, 331; abstentions, 4 plus 12 by telephone, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u265	The motion as a result of an inquiry was approved. - OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA, ON THE RAILWAY POLICY OF THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA AFTER FINALIZING THE HEALTH EMERGENCY OF COVID-19. [[File number 173/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u266	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda after the end of the health emergency of COVID-19. The vote will take place on a point-by-point basis. We voted for point number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 by telephone, 347; in favour, 105 plus 196 by telephone, 301; against, 3 plus 11 by telephone, 14; abstentions, 6 plus 26 by phone, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u267	Point 1 was adopted. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 52 plus 94 telematics votes, 146; against, 55 plus 113 telematics votes, 168; abstentions, 7 plus 26 telematics votes, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u268	Point 2 is rejected. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 52 plus 94 telematics votes, 146; against, 52 plus 103 telematics votes, 155; abstentions, 10 plus 36 telematics votes, 46.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u269	Point 3 is rejected. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 52 plus 94 telematics votes, 146; against, 39 plus 82 telematics votes, 121; abstentions, 23 plus 57 telematics votes, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u270	Point 4 was adopted. Point number five. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 52 plus 94 telematics votes, 146; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 62 plus 138 telematics votes, 200.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u271	Point 5 was adopted. Point number six. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 104 plus 206 telematics votes, 310; abstentions, 10 plus 27 telematics votes, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u272	Point 6 was adopted. Point number seven. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 104 plus 206 telematics votes, 310; abstentions, 10 plus 27 telematics votes, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u273	Point 7 was adopted. Point number 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 233 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 91 plus 185 telematics votes, 276; against, 13 plus 21 telematics votes, 34; abstentions, 10 plus 27 telematics votes, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u274	Point 8 was adopted. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the measures envisaged to grant flexibility to the key sectors of economic activity. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 173/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u275	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the measures envisaged to give flexibility to the key sectors of economic activity. [[EAJ-PNV]] Voted in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Republican, Plural, Citizens, Basque and Mixed [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 235 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 61 plus 131 telematics votes, 192; against, 52 plus 102 telematics votes, 154; abstentions, 1 plus 2 telematics votes, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u276	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u277	Overall vote on the draft law repealing the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance provided for in article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October 2015 from Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February, for single reading, taking into account the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 235 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 62 plus 141 telematics votes, 203; against, 19 plus 36 telematics votes, 55; abstentions, 33 plus 58 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u278	The draft law repealing the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance provided for in article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Workers'Statute Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October 2015 from Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February, is adopted. [[Applauds]] It will be referred to the Senate.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u279	Discussion of all legislative initiatives. Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May on Education, submitted by the Parliamentary Groups Citizens, VOX and Popular in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 234 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 52 plus 101 telematics votes, 153; against, 62 plus 133 telematics votes, 195.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u280	The amendments to this bill were rejected in their entirety. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u281	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for a law repealing the maximum time limit for investigation in the Criminal Prosecution Act, submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 114 plus 235 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 34 plus 59 telematics votes, 93; against, 80 plus 167 telematics votes, 247; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u282	Consequently, the amendment to the whole of this proposal for a law is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u283	It takes into consideration proposals for reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Proposal by the Plural Parliamentary Group to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 61, in order to regulate, in cases of extreme necessity, the possibility of holding meetings of the Congress through telematic means. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 113 plus 235 telematics votes, 348; votes in favour, 6 plus 39 telematics votes, 45; votes against, 104 plus 193 telematics votes, 297; abstentions, 3 plus 3 telematics votes, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u284	Consequently, the proposal for reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u285	It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on anti-corruption measures. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 114 plus 234 telematics votes, 348; votes in favour, 52 plus 107 telematics votes, 159; votes against, 58 plus 120 telematics votes, 178; abstentions, 4 plus 7 telematics votes, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-17-CD200617.u286	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
