ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 26, which corresponds to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Organic Law 4/2015, of 30 March, on the Protection of Citizens' Security Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Organic]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u3	Thank you very much, President. The Basque Parliamentary Group is again presenting, as in previous legislatures, a proposal for the reform of the Law on Citizens' Security that in the XII Legislature could not be concluded by premature dissolution of the House, however, substantial progress had been made in the corresponding presentation of the Commission of the Interior, with agreements up to article 36 and basically between the People's Party, the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and other political formations; agreements reached - I must remind you - in a climate of calm, without this obfusing the position of each one, despite having hoped that it would be a complicated goal in terms of the public disputes that were taking place at that time and that are also continuing today. I have to say that I am waiting - and I will listen carefully - for the position against the People's Parliamentary Group, which actively worked in that XII Legislature and which took into consideration this very bill that I am presenting today. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will recall, the Citizens' Security Act was processed and adopted in the midst of a strong political and social controversy that has not faded over time. That is why we believe that we interpret the social reality well if we describe this law as a controversial, controversial, unpopular law, with a low citizen acceptance and, although some political forces in this House have described these assessments as over-actions and as a manipulated debate with the aim of wearing down the promoter - the People's Party - we must remind them that when they agree in this negative assessment not only certain political forces, including the Basque Nationalist Party, but also international organizations for the defence of rights and freedoms, the Spanish lawyer, some judicial association, social media of international relevance, the Ombudsman's Office itself and an endless number of references, we must seriously consider that what circulates in the wrong direction is the Law on Citizens' Security. For this reason, it has been socially motivated as the law on gags, considering it to be a law against discrepancy, a law on social control, a law that abhors civil rights and freedoms. Negative assessment to which was not alien the political, economic and social context in which it was conceived and approved, at a time, as you will recall, affected by a deep crisis in all areas and generating a deep social unrest, with varied expression in public spheres. Thus, the law was perceived in this context as an authoritarian and controllative response to the collective expressions of that social unrest in the form of demonstrations and concentrations, strikes, the right to information and other civil rights and freedoms. This authoritarian view of the Law on Citizens' Security is also alien to the changes that took place on those dates in the punitive law of the State in which it was immersed in the same Law on Citizens' Security, since it administered part of what until then was criminal matter, what it has had, as we will see, serious consequences for the citizenry and, at the same time, the same Criminal Code was reformed to tax other conduct, both the criminality of crimes of opinion and expression, and which it has received the criticism of the European Court of Human Rights by amending Spanish courts, which I believe will also happen with the disqualification of the President of the Generalitat, Mr. Torra, as well as the participation of trade unionists on strike through so-called pickets, placing these reforms of the Criminal Code in the so-called criminal law of danger, in which security becomes a priority category of criminal policy as a good which the State and the public authorities must also defend with all the relevant means and instruments to achieve the right to commit, in order to commit a criminal offence, in order to which the best effect, in which the criminal law it can be presumed a priority category of criminal policy. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, as I had already told you, the mutation in 2014 of criminal offences in administrative breaches of the Law on Citizens' Security has had significant negative consequences for citizens, and they continue to do so, such as that the sanction is no longer imposed by a criminal judge but by the Administration and that in the administrative sanctioning procedure the statements of the agents enjoy evidentiary value while in the criminal procedure they have the value of mere witness statements. The criminal fine takes into account the economic capacity of the convicted person while this economic capacity is taken into account in much lesser importance in the administrative law sanctioning the Law on Citizen Security. The final administrative sanction is entered in a register, which did not happen with the criminal offences and, finally, ladies and gentlemen, the solvent et repeats, first pays and then appeals. This very widespread negative assessment of the Law on Citizen Security, considered as a control law, authoritarian, has confirmation, certain that obiter dictates, through the statement made in the Commission of Inquiry on Patriotic Police, when Mr. Don Álvaro Pino, then operational deputy director, declared, when asked for the reasons of his appointment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Jorge Fernández Díaz, that perhaps it could be due to his experience as head of the police anti-disturbing units of the National Police in previous years and that perhaps it was felt that it could be useful in the climate of deep social unrest that was breathed as a result of the economic, social and welfare crisis itself. Those who, by the way, as you will recall, pushed political forces that were also the subject of the spurious action of that so-called patriotic police, together with certain forces of Catalan nationalism and the Socialist Party itself, a patriotic police whose creation and subsequent leadership Mr Pino helped, as the committee of inquiry concluded. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this whole context surrounding the genesis of the Law on Citizen Security justifies the widespread impression against it as an expression of the punitive right of danger and which is manifested to the detriment of the rights and freedoms in its relation to security, a negative impression that is confirmed when the Law on Citizen Security is examined in its specific contents, which I will not do this moment for lack of time, without prejudice to its most controversial and controversial limbs. We already pointed out in another debate that an advanced democratic society demands that security be put at the service of guaranteeing rights, not being its conditioning. The same Constitutional Court expresses this when it enshrines the primacy of freedom over police effectiveness, noting that the legitimate duty of the State to prosecute the crime or other unlawful acts cannot be imposed at the expense of rights and freedoms. At the same time, the General Council of the Judiciary came when it pointed out the role and objective to which citizen security must be directed with regard to the obstacles preventing the free exercise and enjoyment of rights and freedoms. Well, in the opinion of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Citizens' Security Act does not adequately link security with fundamental freedoms. As an example, I will outline some of your passages or some of your regulations. In the right to strike, for example, on the occasion of the expression "in the vicinity of the facilities of basic services", and in the right of demonstration and assembly by holding their organizers responsible for the alteration of public security for other conducts; or also by holding the organizers responsible for spontaneous and peaceful demonstrations, unreported, on the occasion of events or situations whose response by the public does not allow delay at the expense of being obsolete; or also by how freedom of expression and information is addressed, with a general preventive ban on such freedom, subject to authorization, in addition to the authority of the agents of the authority for the preventive arrest of the cameras and other effects; or as regulated by the general powers of the security police, such as police controls and bodily records on the street and public places or transfers, by way of a number of demonstrations, to police units for identification; or the rights of persons seeking asylum and refuge internationally recognized and ratified by Spain. Finally, the imbalance between security and freedom also occurs in the sanctioning regime contained in this law, since it must be added to what has already been said that there is a overlap between criminal and administrative offences, in addition to an unbalanced relationship between the gravity of certain facts and their punitive response or even the same need for such a response; or inadequate treatment, in our view, is clear, between the offence and the administrative offence and its consequences, or the inadequate consideration of the exclusion of anti-legality from the modifying causes of the offender's guilt and economic circumstances. I am finalizing, President, as I did in the past on the occasion of the consideration of this same initiative, urging them to reform this law on citizen security with more parliamentary and social support than they had in their day the law currently in force, because an advanced democracy is based on legality, but this necessarily requires citizen consent, also begging them not to turn the debate on the law on citizen security into a debate on the police itself. This would confuse the finger with the moon, and it is sectarian and irresponsible to describe them for themselves as saints or demons. They are as we are the rest of the citizenry, and I know that because I have directed a police force for more than ten years and in very difficult circumstances, where the best and sometimes also the worst comes out. What is quite different is in an advanced democratic society characterized by balances and counterweights, which we have with respect to those officials to whom we surrender the legitimate use of force. Finally, and I conclude, as Don Antonio Muñoz Molina was asking us this weekend in an article in El país: that we should be guided by the criteria with which almost everyone is guided in daily life, with pragmatism and spirit of conformity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr Mateu Istúriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u5	Good afternoon, Madam President. With venial, ladies and gentlemen. Do you see this photograph of a policeman beaten on the floor by a few energetics? [[Show a picture]] For precisely to avoid these behaviors, to protect the physical integrity of the police, to improve their role, to guarantee the freedom of citizens, to maintain the balance between the binomial freedom and security, is why we must continue to maintain the current law on citizen security. Again, ladies and gentlemen, - and reproducing what was already said at the plenary session on 21 March 2017 - Mr Legarda has told the story of the parliamentary process of his initiative to amend the law. This proposal to amend the Law on Citizen Security was dealt with jointly with one of the Socialist Party, which already intended to repeal the Law on Citizen Security by replacing it with the Law of 1992, the so-called Corcuera Law, the so-called Law on Kick in the Door, which was subsequently corrected by the Constitutional Court by annulling the said and mentioned article 21. The 1992 law was a positive law of its time, but, ladies and gentlemen, it was obsolete because of the advances, both social and technological, that took place during its existence. Ladies and gentlemen, a luster of law 4/2015 applies to us. Its implementation has been a cornerstone for the protection of freedom and security. The attacks by most of the groups in this House - some are still sitting today and others are no longer - culminated in a resort of unconstitutionality, which was raised and presented on 9 June 2015, based solely on trying to wear down the then People's Party government. The arguments that were expressed were very simple and responded to the typical party argumentary, without having any certainty or reality based on the facts. Look at how you were trying to confuse the population, to the extent that you called this law the Law gag, because you - by deceiving those who criticized it, of course, the citizens - said that it was going to be suspended or to affect the right of demonstration. It wasn't true. For the first time in a law, this right of demonstration is expressly protected - in article 23 - and precisely those who disturbed the order or development of a lawful manifestation were persecuted when it did not constitute a criminal offence. The attacks were therefore utterly false, as the right of demonstration was fully guaranteed in this law, in accordance with the parameters of the Spanish Constitution and the Law on the Right of Assembly of 1983. In short, ladies and gentlemen, what was intended to penalize was the violent and aggressive actions that prevented the exercise of that right of demonstration. Ladies and gentlemen, have you not seen demonstrations over the years in which this law has been in force? Obviously, the communications are not subject to criminal charges, unlike those that have not been communicated and are generated spontaneously. In that escalation of not telling the truth they also said that in front of the doors of Congress or legislative assemblies there could be no demonstrations or meetings. Another lie that you also manifested. Whenever such a concentration has been communicated to the Government delegation, there is no legal impact. Ladies and gentlemen, do we not continually see concentrations and demonstrations at the door of this Congress? They continued to lie, ladies and gentlemen, and came to say that massive street identifications would be practiced. That wasn't the case. The principle of non-discrimination in the exercise of identifications was established with the rank of law, clearly setting out the circumstances in which it can be carried out: where there are indications that it has been possible to participate in the commission of an offence or that it is carried out for the prevention of an offence. They alarmed the population by saying that there would be indiscriminate searches and that the raiders would then be taken to the police stations. Another absolute falsehood. The law regulated it with full respect for privacy and also introduced a novelty, that searches should be carried out by an agent of the same sex, which to date had not occurred; and, of course, they would only be carried out for the exercise of investigative and preventive functions. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that identifications, searches and public records are fundamental to the fight against threats to citizens' security, in particular against jihadist terrorism and against organized crime. Ladies and gentlemen, another lie has been expressed. How many images do we see on TV of police action in demonstrations or other police actions? They generated the bubble that the dissemination of these images would be punished. It's not true either. All that was intended was to protect against the malicious use of such images to disturb the acting agents and the impact on their families and, fundamentally, not to reveal many aspects of protected facilities or to jeopardize the success of an operation. Ladies and gentlemen, all this, as it cannot be otherwise, with absolute respect for the right to freedom of information. That it contained disproportionate sanctions and that it was eager to collect? Another fallacy, something else that is not true, because the amount of the sanctions remained virtually unchanged since Law 1/1992, with the only increase in the maximum amount of the minor sanctions and, therefore, the minimum of the serious ones. Then the curl has already been curled with what you call hot returns and the second additional provision of the law calls rejection at the border. How demagogy was expressed in this regard! Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are all very quiet since we heard the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights on 13 February this year, which said that Spain did not violate the prohibition of collective expulsions from the European Convention on Human Rights or article 13 on the right to effective reinforcement in the event of a decision on the case of two sub-Saharans who jumped the Melilla fence in 2014. From there, we have no information about how many rejections at the border are currently practised by the Social-Communist Government. I also take this opportunity to recall the precarious conditions under which our State Security Forces and Bodies are working in the treatment of immigration. We demand more PCR, more security and more affection in the sense of generating them the possibility of having comfort and not having so much anguish in their work. Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that no sovereign state can admit impassive that the border perimeter is being violated by unqualified posts, as is the case in Ceuta and Melilla. The People's Party drafted a deeply-guaranteed law that protected public freedoms by establishing more precise regulation of police intervention in the area of security. As I said before, this law does not restrict any right or modify in any way the Organic Law Regulating the Right of Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, this current law is the fundamental instrument of the State Security Forces and Bodies to develop and fulfil their legal obligations and is extremely relevant to the security of all. It is the key tool to prevent the most serious threats that can affect citizen security today. In order to dispel any doubts about their legality, I would like to remind you of what the Council of State said in its opinion on the bill. It said: It keeps a prudent weighting and counterweight between the values of freedom and security. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we have to ask of a law on citizen security. The reform that the PNV seeks has been very well exposed, as always, by Mr Legarda. Mr. Legarda, you're always a very precise man, you're always worried about legal certainty. His trajectory supports him, but now I'm going to recriminate him by missing a more forceful attitude, it's the same as his party, which has been a partner of the government of the motion to decapitate the People's Party. They do not punish forcefully or repudiate the statements of the Vice-President of the Government and other people who are currently also inciting occupation, and that does create a problem, first of all, of citizen security, of legal security, because it violates absolutely the sacred right of private property as set out in the Constitution. We told you at the time that our law was capable of improvement, of course, and we demonstrated this by making 17 amendments to the proposal you had drawn up. They were purely technical, in the idea of considering it as a starting point for making some kind of change in the direction that the Minister of the Interior, Mr Zoido, was saying at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, times have changed enormously and we are experiencing issues that had not occurred or thought they would ever occur, the COVID-19, and this is not the right time to proceed with the reform of this law. Its current existence is ultimately necessary to combat the pandemic in the terms in which it is drafted. The existence of a clear and balanced law between freedom and security is necessary to meet the demands arising from this health crisis and legally established in the multiple decrees drawn up by the Social-Communist Government. It is now more necessary than ever to ensure compliance with the measures to combat the health crisis that the autonomous communities are establishing in the face of the absolute abandonment of the Government of Spain, mainly in which they do not have their own police. Ladies and gentlemen of the left, I say to you that the five years that this law has been in force have been fruitful. Why? Because there have actually been three governments that have applied it: the Socialist Government, the Government of the People's Party and the Social-Communist Government, and of course no one in their common sense has said that this law should be repealed at the time they were using it. Of course, you have noticed and you do not quote this law with such shame because it is very useful to you, ladies and gentlemen. Now shut up and let it be a nationalist party that carries the singing voice and you go to the rebuf. Will Minister Marlaska continue to qualify this law as a failure, as he stated three weeks before hearing the grand judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights? By the way, I do not want to forget that, in view of the impossibility of repealing this law, Minister Marlaska himself issued an order, the 13/2018, of 17 October, for its application, which shows that the law was positive and good. And I do not want to forget either the bat burrillo that it organized with the interpretation of article 36.8, referring to disobedience and resistance to authority, considered nuclear in maintaining the measures that the Government had taken in the fight against the pandemic. The Law of the State had to intervene, as always, by deciding, first, what rule was applicable between the fan that had and, second, by dispelling what was the applicable interpretative criterion. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen and the Government of Spain, the law should not be so bad either, because you have been willing to apply it, eagerly. More than one million sanctions have been proposed and more than 8,500 arrests have been carried out since the state of alarm was declared. You are the champions of Western countries in applying sanctions in the health crisis; even, today's government, you have given rise to criticism from your governing partners. According to the data of the crime portal, more sanctions have been proposed than during the entire period of validity of the law itself and triples the number of the last we know of the crime portal of the ministry, which has been closed in 2018. Madam President, I'm finishing up. I send a message with firmness and pure conviction. The Spanish can be calm in order to safeguard their rights and freedoms with the existence of this law elaborated and approved by the People's Party. And thanks also to the fact that we have the best State Security Forces and Corpses and a fiscal and judicial career, which I always refer to as soldiers in the justice system who guarantee their application. Too bad she doesn't have the same concept with regard to that former prosecutor and some of the people who collaborate with her. Nor can I forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we have the worst government and the most sectarian of all Spanish democracy, with communists sitting at the table of the Council of Ministers, defenders of the Venezuelan tyranny, nostalgic of communist barbarism and allies of the albaceas of terrorism, whose only wish is to overthrow the parliamentary monarchy and establish a republic in its own way and convenience. And of course the most serious thing is that they do so from within the Government, with the consent of the President of the Government. In order to try to curb these outbursts - and I am finishing, Madam President - there is the People's Party, the magnificently represented People's Parliamentary Group here, which will respect the figure of the king, Don Felipe VI, will continue to work for all Spaniards and will act firmly against the subversion of the constitutional order. I end by recalling a phrase I believe that practically for all of you known, whose author was a great Spanish saint, founder with others of the Society of Jesus, Saint Ignatius of Loyola. It said: In times of desolation never make moves. And I add with my modest humility: And less with a government like the one we have. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u6	Thank you, Mr. Mateu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In March 2015, I had the opportunity to intervene in the Senate Plenary to support the vetoes presented to the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, a very controversial law, as Mr. Legarda recalled, which I marked as unpopular and feudalist, while I predicted its unconstitutionality - it is still to be seen -. Today, the Basque Group's proposal returns us to those intense debates in which the law was processed, without seeking the reinforcement of the opposition and using the roller of the absolute majority. It is enough to recall that, contrary to custom, the then Minister of the Interior, Mr Fernández Díaz, declined his defence in the Upper Chamber, despite being a law of an organic nature and a topic of very particular interest to society, because around it the exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms revolves. In line with my contrary position, the consideration of this law should be an opportunity to reconsider those critical aspects in relation to the protection of citizen security, but it turns out that the proposing group extends its radio of reform to other laws, in the case of the Organic Regulator of the Right of Assembly, for which a broad social demand is invoked, when the reality is that article 21 of the Constitution, which covered the drafting of the law in 1983, with the Government of the Socialist Party, is diaphanous, both in the recognition of doing so peacefully and without weapons, and in the restriction of meetings in the case of places of public transit and demonstrations. It is also intended to reform another organic law, the law on the rights and freedoms of foreigners in Spain and their social integration, which has twenty years in force and which was at the time considered the most progressive law of the European Union in the field of immigration, merit of the Government of the People's Party. Today we cannot go back on a subject in which Spain has already made various legislative and regulatory changes, without addressing the crux of the matter, which is the control of migration flows under the immigration and asylum pact, signed and breached by the Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u9	Thank you, President. The Law on Citizen Security or the Law on Mordaza, as has already been said, was passed in 2015 together with the reform of the most conservative Penal Code in years, in a climate of citizen response by the PP government, which some experts call criminal exceptionality. The truth is that it was promised by this Government to repeal it, but today we are faced with an existing law and also with which it has been the Government that has used the most Law bites, much more than the previous PP government. And this law, from a democratic logic, is a problem, mainly because it confuses public order with political order. That is, it confuses maintaining law and order on the street with maintaining the status quo. It makes pre-constitutional use of the concept of public order, as does the crime of sedition. The crime of sedition was incorporated into the Criminal Code in the 19th century, linked to matters of public order, during Francoism served to pursue workers' strikes, and then, with the 1978 Constitution, it was amended but not withdrawn. Public order must respect fundamental rights, such as that of demonstration, assembly and information; what cannot be public order is persecution of dissent and the right to protest. We say it, the PNV said it before and said it at the time Amnesty International, which prepared a specific report just to talk about the Law gag. Many professors of criminal law from more than thirty-three Spanish universities signed a manifesto also warning of the dangers against the fundamental rights of the Law on gags and the reform of the Criminal Code, and up to five United Nations rapporteurs were concerned about the issue. We are going to abstain today because we think that there is no need to reform a law that goes against fundamental rights and that is why today we have tabled a proposal for a law to repeal the Law on Citizen Security, the reform of the Criminal Code of 2015 in relation to the types of public order and the same sedition offence. These three instruments are the beast of the regime against the rights of demonstration, assembly and protest. They are fundamental rights in democratic systems, firstly, because they represent limits to political power; secondly, because they force political power into accountability, and thirdly, because they understand that citizenship is a political asset beyond voting every four years. In Catalonia, there are more than 2800 people who have been punished, most of them for sedition and for reasons of public order, either by the law or by the reform of the Penal Code of 2015, and yesterday we attended one of the last trials for persecution of the dissent of a girl who had sent a wasap calling for a demonstration and who had to be a year without leaving her village. And speaking of repression, we cannot but speak of the president of the disqualified Generalitat, of Mr. Torra. It seems to us a democratic aberration and we are sure that we are not the only ones. The PSOE and Podemos talk about judicial coup and we agree. There is a situation of judicial coup, but what there is also a certain political responsibility of this Government. What happens now to the dialogue table? How do the Catalan parties and the Catalan Government feel at a dialogue table when they disable the president for not taking off a banner? A dialogue table that has so far given a photo and an disabled president, has had no more results. What message do you send to the Catalans, that their vote is not valid, that the presidents put them to the highest judicial bodies in the Spanish State, judicial bodies that you recognize are doing legal coup? These ten years of proceedings have shown that independence is not wiped out by beatings or fines or by beatings or jails. Amnesty and self-determination and stop politically persecuting people who defend rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u11	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, why do valecans charge against a mobilization in Vallecas and why do they charge against a mobilization of cayetans? Why is a bar fight between agents in Altsasu called terrorism and why is a more serious fight with agents involved in Gijón or Seville another crime? Why does a mobilization here, in front of Congress, of retired and retired, of workers, end up like the rosary of dawn and why when ultra cops show up breaking the police cord? Why comments on distasteful social networks mocking an agent involves arresting a person and reporting it for hate crime and why the comments of the tacit agent or another police officer with more serious insults to political representatives and Catalan citizens do not mean anything? You will say that the Police and the Civil Guard act on the basis of the principles of congruence, opportunity and proportionality, but I have commented to you some examples of arbitrariness, disproportionateness, discretion and in some cases political content, action on the basis of a political criterion, and of course, this is serious if we take into account - and Mrs Vehi mentioned earlier - that Spain has one of the most severe penal systems and that this translates into a prison population of the highest in Europe having at the same time one of the lowest rates of crime. If we add to this a rule such as the Citizens' Security Act, the This law, in which ambiguous, unclear discretionary powers are granted - granting in many cases to the State Security Forces and Bodies specific capacities of a judge - we find that Spain has one of the records of disproportion in police proceedings. By reforming - as requested by the proposed law presented today - the law bites, is the problem that Spain has with regard to its penal or punitive system ended? No, but I think the sooner it gets done, the better. And why? Because when a government that is theoretically against this law and has been announcing that it is going to repeal it, that it is going to reform it, has implemented it in more than three months than the People's Party in four years, there is a problem. Tell me, if not, why have you applied it more in three months than in four years, why have you put more sanctions during the state of alarm in Spain than in the rest of the European environment as a whole in the most progressive state of history - in this matter let me doubt it - sanctions interpreting the contrary disobedience, on the basis of Article 36.6, which is one of those that obviously should be repealed ipso facto. But, ladies and gentlemen, another reason - if it is not enough for them - is - before mentioned - the patriotic police. The intellectual authors, the ones responsible for this repressive rule, are precisely those people who are being investigated at this time for having used the cloacas of the State for their internal and external wars using public officials and reserved funds for this purpose. What can they expect from this rule adopted by the Partido Popular in solitary in that government - the spokesman of the Partido Popular SocialCommunista - ultrafraguist in solitary said earlier? After the most drastic social cuts in the history of this state and in the face of the logical citizen protests, they applied them so that no one would protest surgically, through sanction, trying to silence, stigmatize and repress those who spoke. Not only have journalists, workers, photographers, cameras been punished, but before coming to Congress I read that even a girl had been punished for having a bag in which she put "all cats are beautiful", or her acronym - I don't care - making political interpretation of what can or cannot be punished. This rule of cutbacks in rights, freedoms, cannot be any model and, therefore - as we have already mentioned - the United Nations, Amnesty International and the Ombudsman himself have said that the most harmful parties should be reformed - from our point of view, to repeal -. He also mentioned earlier that, of course, after the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, no one was talking about rejections at the border. I'm talking. I was talking to Acnur today and I was reminded that 80% of the people facing the Ceuta and Melilla fences are potential asylum seekers. Do you treat like those people who are asking for help as did the People's Party? I'd be ashamed of myself. You'll know. Finally, it is not only time to repeal this repressive and social control rule, it is also time to create those mechanisms that serve to prevent and ensure that, in the face of possible police abuses, those responsible are identified and punished in a timely manner. There are mechanisms in other Member States of the European Union for this to happen. That is why we and we support the complete repeal of this law, but if you come forward with a reform proposal we will validate it, support it and vote in favour of discussing the amendment at point-by-point. And I ended up like it couldn't be any other way. In the face of the shame we experienced yesterday, which is the disqualification of a democratically elected president, the third of this last decade - it can be seen that some members of the state do not like what Catalans and Catalans choose -, I want to show all solidarity with all the citizens of Catalonia, with their institutions and with President Torra. Visca Catalunya! Gora Euskal Herria askatuta! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u12	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, fortunately, that we are considering the amendment of Organic Law 4/2015 on the protection of citizens' security. The finally sterile exercise of the previous legislature left us with a bitter taste of mouth to which we were rapporteurs of the amendment of this law. We were very close to getting a text that significantly improved the current Law 4/2015 and that today again proposes to modify the Basque Nationalist Party. On that occasion, if you will recall, a proposal for a law exactly the same as the current one was presented by the same proposing group today, with the singularity that we are also dealing with at the same time with another one of the Socialist Group which asked us to repeal this organic text in order to pass nothing less than the old law of kicking at the door. Yes, that of Minister Corcuera, ladies and gentlemen. That served to discover that it was possible to reach agreements and that the vast majority of the groups were aware of the need to reform a law that is basic in the order of our coexistence and use of public spaces, because even the People's Party was then able to set aside its old prejudices that led it to approve with the roll of its majority a law that the Ombudsman denounced and that still presents constitutional doubts that even the High Court still has to consider about them. Ladies and gentlemen, we will hear throughout the afternoon - and we have heard this on several occasions - that this is about a binomial or a disquisition between security and freedom. Do not get confused, there is no binomial; this only goes to freedom, to individual freedoms, because freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is security. They're two sides of the same coin. A threatened freedom is not freedom. Freedom, if it is not protected, cannot be guaranteed, and who is free yes and sometimes no, for it is not truly free. Only where there are guarantees is true freedom, and where there is no security, ladies and gentlemen, there is only arbitrariness and law of the jungle. And it is that the law and only the law makes us all equal and allows us to have rights. There are no rights or freedoms without the law. Those who think that there is a law for the rest of the citizens and not for them, those who skip it and fail to comply with it wanting to rely on privileges, on identity dreams, on historical mandates have no place in this democracy. Yesterday we saw how someone like Mr. Torra, who has been characterized by his supremacy, because he believed himself to be unpunished, ran into the law and the rule of law. He laughed at the complaint made him Citizens, pleaded guilty to disobedience with much gallarity, and now we see him kicking for a sentence that finds him guilty. But it is true that the laws must be adapted and, above all, as is the case with this law, of the 4/2015, modify them if we notice that they are not up to what this society demands in the use of our public spaces and the coexistence of citizens. And it is that this law was born by a majority, in this case of the People's Party, as we have said, that it renounced the consensus necessary to legislate on something that is everyone's: the way in which citizens relate to each other and the shared use of public spaces; something that, by the way, the Socialist Party also did in the days of Minister Corcuera. The old parties, ladies and gentlemen, always used their majority to steal from the rest the possibility of agreeing and agreeing. Fortunately, that time has passed. Today we will again hear thick words - we have already done so - from some spokesman on this law. I think it is unfair, because I am sure that they will focus, above all, on the work of our State Security Forces and Bodies, as they have already done. They will attack them again and insult them; they will speak of the freedom to crush, unless they are the targets of harassment; of police violence, unless they are the ones who exercise it against public officials and their families; of brutality, unless they are the bombs and the shots in the back of an abject terrorist gang that lords like Bildu refuse to condemn. Unfair, because if anything also wishes the men and women of our State Security Forces and Corpses is a clear law; clear, ladies and gentlemen, that protects everyone: citizens in the exercise of their rights and freedoms and professionals who ensure compliance with the law and that public spaces are for everyone and everyone. I think that should be the debate we have. It seems a lie that it has to be another parliamentary group and not the Government that brings to this House the possibility of genuinely exercising a consensus on something as fundamental as the law that manages and restricts citizens' own rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have missed a great opportunity to have presented a draft law of the Government with the consensus that was already reached in the last legislature, with the relevant reports of the Council of State to make this law truly blurred and new account. Our group will vote in favour, and we have already done so in consideration in the previous parliamentary term. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us bet on a better law, let us be able to make a law more respectful of the fundamental rights and freedoms of our Magna Charter and guarantee the safety of our citizens. And above all, ladies and gentlemen, let us dialogue with sanity and serenity, without demagoguery, striving to reach a sensible agreement that can be a real starting point for a better law of citizen security; a law for all, a true law of freedoms, that does not force citizens to choose between freedom and security, as some want to bring today. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u15	Thank you, Madam President. The People's Security Act of 2015, despite what the spokesman for the People's Party says, is not in vain known as the Law on Mordaza, because it is a clearly regressive and anti-democratic rule promoted by the PP with the aim of curbing by the repressive means the social discontent generated by the social and economic crisis, by its cuts measures and also to have greater control in a situation of political crisis of the 1978 regime, especially by the growing demand for collective rights of the nation without a State. And in case it wasn't clear, we heard it here today in the mouth of the right-wing spokespersons in relation to the President of Catalonia. Go ahead my solidarity and that of the BNG with Quim Torra and the Catalan people. [[Applauds]] Anti-democratic because instead of conceiving the norm and the police forces as instruments to ensure that people can exercise their rights in freedom and without interference are used in many cases to undermine them and even to prevent them. This rule empowers the State Security Forces and Bodies to carry out actions that clash head-on against the right to privacy of persons without adequate judicial control; it hinders and limits the right to demonstration and assembly, with particular impact on the right to strike and also on freedom of information and expression. By the way, gentlemen of the PP, demonstrations in front of Congress if you're a Spanishman, yes; if you're a fascist, yes; if you're the Jusapol, yes; for everyone else, cocksucker and sanction. For this reason, the BNG, as broad democratic social and political sectors of all the peoples of the State, opposed this law and has since called for its repeal, a measure that is also included in the investment agreement signed in January between the PSOE and the BNG. Despite this, the current government of PSOE and Podemos has not only not repealed it, but it has been the government that has applied it most. I'm done. Moving forward in democracy means eliminating anti-democratic and unjust rules like this or, by the way, the decree of digital gag. That is why the BNG, despite opting for the derogation, will support the consideration of this proposed law of the PNV, because it goes in the right direction and we hope to be able to collaborate in its improvement during its processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u16	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u17	Thank you, Madam President. By putting us in the background, the People's Party is beginning to process the Citizens' Security Act, or a law that bites, in the midst of an immense crisis, aggravated by a policy of cuts and internal wage devaluation. The crisis did not provoke it by the Spanish people but we did pay it, and in the midst of those years many protests flourish. The then People's Party government can choose whether to fight poverty or to fight the impoverished, and choose the latter. To show a button. In 2012 the government of Mariano Rajoy cut public health and education by up to 10 billion euros, at the same time - for that there is money - multiplying the expenditure on anti-disturbing material by eighteen million euros. This law did not guarantee the safety of anyone, it increased the insecurity of people who wanted to go out on the street to demand a fair policy. Today it accumulates up to 765,000 sanctions; it increased from 87 000 sanctions in 2015 to 250 000 in 2018, however, with fewer protests. They called for the withdrawal of professional colleges, Amnesty International, five United Nations human rights rapporteurs. And today, that we are experiencing a phase of new crisis and once again impoverishment, it is essential that people who are desperate and who can no longer have the guarantee that they can hold public authorities accountable on the street, if they so decide, without having to pass fear; that citizens' demands receive public policies and solutions as a response, and not fucks. Because, look at you, besides the batons - I don't know if by the Law gag or by the Law of Gravity - you have a strange physical property which is that you always fall down. The national government still owes us an explanation why the same concentrations that receive smiles in Núñez de Balboa receive arbitrary arrests and charges in the Vallecas neighbourhood. And whenever I point out an inequality of these someone on the right side goes out to say that this is dividing the Spaniards. It is exactly the opposite: it is to demand that there be only one law, regardless of which neighborhood you live in, and that whoever has the will to go out to demonstrate in Vallecas has full assurance that it will be treated with the same exquisite treatment as those who go out to manifest in the heart of the Salamanca neighborhood. Gentlemen of the Government, meet your commitments to invest in which we vote and repeal the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u18	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Finally, for the Plural Parliamentary Group too, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u19	Thank you very much, President. The Spanish State itself is already a gag for Catalonia, with or without gag law. Obviously, we are going to vote in favour of this proposal, but I think it is worth pointing out that neither Podemos nor the Socialists are the authors of this reform proposal. My loneliness with you, Gerard, in front of racism and the feixism of VOX, but in Spain those who are in prison are the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia to put ballot boxes, when in a full and European democracy of the 21st century those who should be locked up are the robes that rot their country every time they act. [[applause]] [[Rumors]] You have shown that you are not at all interested in resolving the political conflict with Catalonia, because you can continue to use Catalonia as an excuse to cover up your futility. They have also decided that the unity of Spain and that repression are much more important than the well-being of the citizens of Catalonia. Their silence, their conformism, always looking elsewhere confirm that the hatred of Catalonia, which you have been trying to sow for many years, is the only electoral campaign you contemplate, basically because you have no plans for the future for Spain. In any European democracy it would be unthinkable for a president to be disqualified from hanging a banner, less coming from a politicized and perverted administrative entity. And I'm concerned that you're not aware of it, that you're not aware of the ridiculous international you're doing. Faced with this scandalous disqualification, the answer of some is elections, when they know perfectly well that the votes of the citizens of Catalonia are worth nothing here in Spain; they are worth nothing. In Catalonia, the citizens of Catalonia do not decide; in Catalonia, they decide the franchising institutions that you have been endorsing and supporting for many years. The law that we are debating today was made ad hoc for the response of the Catalan people in the streets. And this progressive government has been using it for two years. All this which you are allowing to be done to a territorial minority is an insult to every democratic principle. They want us scared and paralyzed, but President Torra, the Tamara, the Jordi Pesarrodona, the more than 2850 reprimanded by Spain, who have done nothing but defend democracy and our future, have much more dignity than all of you together, and neither of them nor any of us wants the police and patriotic justice to do politics for us. But it seems that some of you are already doing well that way. Stop making excuses to cover up your inability to solve the problems of your country, which are many. I am convinced that the Spanish citizens are the first to be fed up; tired of you putting us as an excuse always, the Catalans, the independenceists, as this country goes down little by little every day. I'm done. The solution for Spain to stop putting in and taking out presidents of the Generalitat de Catalunya, to stop pulling out 16 billion euros that are from the inhabitants of Catalonia and that you waste every year, to stop hurting businesses, workers and autonomous Catalans, the solution is independence. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] We will not be free in Spain as long as we remain part of it. Free political prisoners and exiles and free Visca Catalunya! [[Rumors]] Greetings!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u21	Thank you very much, President. In the first place, all my Sudanese solidarity, with this wonderful Mapuche T-shirt, to the compañe Gerard Pisarello. [[Applauds]] Antifascist and decolonial Sudanese solidarity; against fascism, because they will not pass. With a victim of Latin American, South American fascism, all my solidarity. [[Applauds]] Repealing the gag law is one of the many commitments that this Government has failed to fulfil. I recall that, since its adoption, this parliamentary group, Esquerra Republicana, the Republican Group, has been presenting parliamentary initiatives for repealing them for years. I would like to start by talking, highlighting one of the worst examples of the miseries of the Law gag - and the compañeras of the United Nations We can be sure that they will agree with me - and it is that it has become criminals to the street vendors and the compas. Keep them. Before the amendment of the Penal Code, the retail sale of imitation articles was considered a breach with administrative sanction, and since the adoption of the People's Party Bite Act in December 2014, it has been considered a violation of the law. street vendors, most of the people who could even apply for asylum, became criminals who faced prison sentences and were facing life with criminal records in their police records. I leave here the phrase that survival is not a crime. You came to power, first, with a motion of censure and, then, with an investiture based on a program of profound reforms that aimed to dismantle and reverse eight years of legislative setbacks in rights and freedoms that had left us in the PP's inheritance. The law on the right, called the "Citizen Security Act", was one of those retrograde legislative reforms promoted by the right to pursue political dissent and restrict basic rights such as protest and demonstration, at a time of social explosion due to the ravages of the financial crisis/stagement. It also sought to shield the racist and criminal migration policies being carried out at the southern border in Ceuta and Melilla. But, as is often the case, the right went too far and the European Court of Human Rights had to come to judge the illegality and violation of human rights that the shameful and criminal hot returns, still today...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u22	Madam President, I call on Rule 72...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u23	Excuse me a second, Mrs. Carvalho. Señor Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Rumors and protests.-Mr.Major Perales: It is a shame, you cannot interrupt the speaker.-A honourable Member: Shut up. The president is giving the floor!]] I'm asking for silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u24	Madam President, I ask you to send the speaker now to remove that sign where she puts "FORAVOX" and to abide by the rules of decorum that this House presides over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u25	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Mrs Carballo, I do have to remind you that what we Members have is our word during the speaking time. I think it is not good that there should be demonstrations, and less about other groups in the House, by means of banners or posters. I have made reference to that on other occasions. I would ask you, please, to remove the poster from the rostrum and to continue to speak, which is really important in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. My question is, can I take my freedom of expression? I hear many times here: 'you go, Minister', 'you go, Minister'. I think this is the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u27	Mrs Carvalho, we are not going into a discussion, because I do not think it is good for the Presidency to be debated. Freedom of expression is manifested precisely through the word, and you are precisely speaking in this rostrum. That is why I ask you to leave the banners outside the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is an adhesive, it is not a banner, it is of the Unitat against the feixisme and racism of Catalonia, of the Unitaria Network against Fascism and Racism of the Spanish State. [[The lady]] As I said, the European Court of Human Rights had to come to rule on the illegality and violation of human rights of the shameful and criminal hot returns at the borders of Ceuta and Melilla, a figure that the Rajoy Executive had legalized precisely with the inclusion of an additional provision to the Law gag. Already in 2015 we were all clear about what was being adopted and what this law meant for the devaluation of democratic quality standards. We all knew for what and against whom this measure would be used. Migrants without papers, activists, trade unionists, artists have been the target of the Law gag and also, of course, of the police and judicial apparatus that has instituted absolute arbitrariness, an arbitrariness that can lead you to sanctions of 600 euros for wearing a T-shirt with disputing slogans, addressing a police officer in Catalan - yes, this happened with a friend of mine, it is not a legend -, giving like a Facebook publication and so many other legal abuses that place us in a position of absolute defence to all those who question the status quo. Well, more than enough time has passed for this Government to dismantle legislation that is a disgrace in humanitarian terms and a filth in democratic terms. Not only has this law of shame not been repealed, but during the state of alarm the record of sanctions has been broken with more than a million, ladies and gentlemen. This, although Minister Grande-Marlaska announced in April the intention to replace the legislation. This is the most progressive government record in history. And it hurts me a lot to say, what's the matter? Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the United Nations We can, if your Government is not able to transform the reality of those who came to the government and do not get the idea that there is a truly progressive alternative to improving their lives between citizens, let us see sooner than later how the agenda is imposed would react in Spain. I leave Brazil, my second country, in a mirror. This happened in Brazil, has already happened in many countries of our environment and will happen here, because authoritarianism, fascism, the populist right feed on the fuel of the disappointment of the left. We are going to vote in favour of the amendment proposal and we are going to continue to fight to get one of the worst laws of the last decades removed as soon as possible. I'm done, Madam President. We welcome the comrades of the UPCs for their bill, something the Republican Party has asked for all these years. Now yes, I finish with a phrase from the bishop Casaldàliga, mig català mig brasilier, which basically says the following: without freedom there is no justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u30	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to express my solidarity with Mr Gerard, a political leader, and I would like to tell the VOX Parliamentary Group that they will need much more than just a tweet to frighten Mr Gerard. All my solidarity, mate. [[Applauds]] Having said that, the law whose reform we are debating today, commonly known as the law of gags, could not be understood without the irruption of the 15-M and its threat, its shell to a corrupt system, a system that showed undeniable symptoms of an irreversible process of institutional decomposition. The debates that took place in the squares led to the flowering of a spring - as has been indicated here - from which emerged one of the greatest social mobilizations that has known the twenty-first century, known worldwide as the Spanish Revolution, mobilizations in which we re-claimed in the squares both social and economic rights, as well as civil and political rights. It was in reaction to this cycle of social mobilization that the leaders of the PP devised the known Law gag, the crown jewel of their repressive strategy. This law was led by a former Popular Party minister and was passed in this plenary with the only votes in favour of the PP and all votes against the rest of the parties in the Chamber. A law that was passed to curtail - as has been said here - freedom of expression, freedom of information, freedom of assembly and the right to strike, and that is why on the streets it was baptized as a law of gag. With regard to respect for rights and freedoms, within the reform of the Criminal Code, my parliamentary group is promoting - and this is already public - the reform of the sedition crime, which criminalizes the right to protest, and the repeal of Article 315 so that the right to strike is fully respected. We also undertake to promote the repeal of article 490 of the Criminal Code, in order to repeal the offence of insulting the Crown. I would like to recall that today there are artists who are in exile or in prison for the mere fact of putting in verse what the main national and international media say in prose. And we all know what I'm talking about. [[Applauds]] Speaking of international media and the law, I would like to recall that The New York Times stated that this law brings memories of the worst days of the Franco regime. And, despite the flood of national and international criticisms in which the Law saw the light, the People's Party did not shake its hand in deploying a series of repressive measures that bring us back to the greyest times in our history. But we must ask ourselves who is the grey ex-minister who pushed this reactionary law. For nothing more and nothing less than Jorge Fernández Díaz, the head of the Praetorian guard of M. Rajoy, a former minister who is currently accused of using public funds and public institutions - in particular, the one known as the patriotic police - to spy on and defame his political rivals, including the current vice president of the government, Pablo Iglesias. Today we live again in troubled times and, again, people have taken up the streets again. On Thursday last week we were able to see how the Vallecas neighbourhood was mobilized spontaneously and peacefully before the Assembly of the Community of Madrid. And we could also see how, protected by the Law gag, there was an unjustified deployment of forces, since it was not based on the principles of suitability, strict necessity and proportionality, because I repeat that they were peaceful demonstrations and mobilizations. But we must recognize that the law does not guarantee citizen security, but rather penalizes civic and peaceful mobilization. In the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo we are firmly convinced that a democratic rule of law must have adequate accountability mechanisms for all its officials, including the Security Forces and Corpses, in order to ensure that no one acts in a discretionary, arbitrary or discriminatory manner, which has been quite questioned by the different treatment they have had, on the one hand, as has already been said, the manifestations of the rich neighborhoods of Madrid, the Cayetanos, and, on the other hand, the manifestations of the humblest neighborhoods of the south, the Vallecanos. I would like to stress that in my parliamentary group we consider the reform of the law to be a necessary step on the road to its complete repeal and replacement by a new law on the protection of citizens' freedoms. We will therefore vote in favour of the reform proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party today. President, I want to end with a quote from libertarian writer George Orwell, a writer who mocked the totalitarianisms of the twentieth century and who in his satirical novel Rebellion on the farm wrote these words: If freedom means anything, it will be above all the right to tell power what it does not want to hear. Thank you, President, and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Cortés. [[Mrs Fernández Castañón asks for the floor]] Yes, Mrs. Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u32	Excuse me, President. From our parliamentary group we wanted to ask you two questions. One of the questions is whether you can interrupt the person who is speaking in the rostrum, and the other...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u33	Mrs Fernández Castañón, this speaking time is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. [[One honourable Member: What about the other question?-Mr.Major Perales: The one of others did, that was planned.-Protests]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández-Lomana Gutiérrez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Citizens' Security Act is to guarantee the safety and freedom of all citizens. On the basis of this premise, in the VOX Parliamentary Group we understand that this law is guaranteeing the protection of persons and property, while protecting our State Security Forces and Bodies in the exercise of their functions by offering them a framework for security and certainty, and does not limit or restrict fundamental rights. In VOX we believe that an amendment to the Law on Citizen Security must be made, but always in order to protect the fundamental interests of all and not just a few. [[Applauds]] Here is a balance between security and freedom. Freedom is a fundamental democratic principle, but without the security that the State must guarantee its citizens there is no freedom. This law that the PNV wants to amend is the same that it has served to guarantee public order and compliance with the prohibition of freedom of movement imposed on us by this Government for seventy-five days to contain the pandemic. During the state of alarm more than one million proposals for sanctions under the Citizens' Security Act have been processed, i.e. 42% more than in the first three years of the rule. Ladies and gentlemen, have you served or have you not served the law? Is it now appropriate to amend the Citizens' Security Act, when we may soon have to re-use it? From my Parliamentary Group, VOX, we reject the initiative put forward by the PNV. It is the height of defachation, supine hypocrisy and incoherence that is the PNV that wants to give lessons in citizen security. [[Applauds]] Thirty years ago, its then president, Xabier Arzalluz, said textually in a meeting with the dome of Herri Batasuna: some shake the tree but without breaking it so that the nuts fall and others collect them to distribute them, thus referring to the coincidence of interests between his party, the left abertzale and the terrorist organization ETA to achieve a common goal, that it was nothing but independence and that it was nothing other than breaking Spain. [[Applauds]] You, for five decades, have collected the nuts of the ETA organization's terrorism, and in case you find it difficult to remember, we remind you: 854 dead, thousands wounded and thousands threatened, more than 500 attacks in your autonomous community, and of these precisely 486 members of the State Security Forces and Bodies. These figures support us to talk about memory and security. And they dare to come and talk to us in the Spanish Parliament about citizen security and fundamental rights that are being undermined! The PNV puts on the table these kinds of initiatives taking advantage of the weakness of this social communist government, which needs its support for the approval of the General Budgets of the State; political opportunism. Because the objective you seek with the modifications and deletions introduced is nothing more than a clear break in the balance between the rule of law, freedom and security set out in the law for the former. But one thing is freedom and its defence, and another very different thing is to put an end to our right to public security. You, with the modifications you propose, seek to legitimise the disorders and obstruction in the public roads, spaces and establishments, very typical of the kale borroka and the CoR, Article 36.3 of your proposal. They do not punish the disruption of public security in religious trades, but the rest of public acts and meetings with many people; article 36.1. The illicit planting and cultivation of drugs, narcotics or psychotropic substances is promoted in places visible to the public, and in this way the public health is undermined; article 36.18. You legitimize graffiti and painted in movable or immovable property both public and private. An example are the paintings that are made in favor of ETA and persist in time. In the course of the year, almost a hundred paintings have been reported by groups of victims of terrorism. However, when it comes to protecting the rights of our State Security Forces and Bodies, not there, there are no fundamental rights being curtailed. There you do allow the use of images or personal or professional data of our agents, even if this may endanger your personal or family security or, if possible, the success of a police operation. Look, no, to ensure the peace and security of the citizens, our agents must be allowed to carry out their functions within a framework of stability and certainty. [[applause]] They talk about a law that makes Spain a police state and they bring us another that makes it a real jungle. Its project also encourages massive and uncontrolled illegal immigration. I remind you that the first final provision of the law that you want to abolish, in which illegal immigrants are rejected at the border, is endorsed by the European Court of Human Rights, which considers that such a return is not illegal and does not constitute a violation of human rights. Gentlemen of the PNV, do not bring us a bill that deletes any reference to the powers of the General Administration of the State to replace them by the autonomous public administrations. I say one thing to you, despite your progress in the increasingly competitive decentralization of security in favour of the autonomous police, the day will come - listen well - when the VOX Parliamentary Group, first, ends with the multiplicity of competition in citizen security and, second, ends with the kingdoms of taifas in which each autonomous community has become, and a time will come when all the Security Forces and Bodies will ultimately depend on the central government, with a full recovery of competences in citizen security. He has no doubt that it will be so. The VOX Group therefore rejects this initiative being taken into consideration. And I'm going to tell you something else. You do not like the Civil Guard, the National Police, the prison officials, or the Army, which have helped and supported you at many times of need, when you have requested this government. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand.- Mr Legarda Uriarte asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u35	Thank you, Mr Fernández-Lomana. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Yes, Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u36	President, in accordance with article 71, to demand that certain claims made against our group be remedied, which affect the dignity of our group, because it has been our group's intention that, with this reform, what we wanted was for certain illegals to go unpunished, unknowing, because it is in the reform and in the explanatory statement, that we would not want them to go unpunished, but that we believe that they are already sanctioned in the Criminal Code. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u38	What a surprise, ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we repeat debate, when we repeat initiative, it turns out that the group that passed this law by absolute majority, Mr Istúriz, makes an amendment to the plane, denies the largest, the position that your group held in the last legislature, where in a Commission I believe we reached an important agreement to draw aspects of this law; moreover, using the same arguments used by the previous spokesman of the People's Party to secure and support the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party. I believe, Your Honor, that the exercise of funambulism that you have done today has been very remarkable and that it contributes very little to the political context, unless, Your Honor, you intend to follow VOX, which I believe is in what you are in now. [[Applauds]] Today, the responsibility we have in this House is to send a message to the citizens, a message at a time of uncertainty, a message that I believe should be clear and concise, and that in this country the exercise of freedoms and the guarantee of rights must be a further step forward in our society, and this law is a clear step backwards on that freedom of progress. My party holds the same position now as before. My party has a hundred and forty years of history, Mr. Mateu. In terms of guaranteeing rights and social progress, there are very few political parties that can teach us lessons. That is why I would like to say that it is not appropriate today, nor can we expect another position of a political party such as ours to continue with the exercise we have been doing in this House, an exercise of responsibility which also led us to raise unconstitutionality resources. By the way, Mrs. Dantas, Republican Left did not sign those unconstitutionality appeals. I therefore repeat what lessons, the just lessons to the Socialist Party. What an irony today, isn't it? What an irony. You have said that we have been discussing this debate for a long time. Look, three years ago - almost exactly three years ago - on September 21, 2017, we were talking here about the processing of an amendment to the entire Bildu Parliamentary Group. That day there was also a debate in this House on the Commission of Inquiry into the Partisan Use of the Ministry of the Interior by the People's Party. Ironies of fate - I said -, today we also talk about the Security Act to deal with it and on Thursday we talk about the creation of a Commission of Inquiry on the People's Party and what it did in the Ministry of the Interior. I am not going to say anything new, I think you have already said quite a few of your ladies and gentlemen what was the real purpose of this law. The People's Party was confronted when it passed this law with a complicated situation on the street, a situation that needed to be gagged, a political situation that also needed to be gagged and a situation in public opinion that it also had to gagged with its multiple cases of corruption. To get it, he didn't shake their hand. He did not shake their hand to change the Penal Code or to pass this law; he did not shake their hand to limit the fundamental rights of citizens, to limit the right to expression, demonstration, strike or transit. And what's worse, you have sheltered and sheltered all of this from the Ministry of the Interior. You have created - and I quote literally the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry - a structure designed to hinder the investigation of corruption scandals affecting the People's Party and the monitoring, investigation and, where appropriate, the persecution of political opponents. All this, ladies and gentlemen, was done with the consent, support and applause of a deputy for Ávila who was sitting there and who is still sitting there, but today he is no longer a deputy for Ávila, but turns out he is a deputy for Madrid, turns out he is president of the People's Party and he says he knows nothing. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] But look at what things, what ironies fate has. In Ávila's trip to Madrid he did not hesitate to have a person on his side of maximum confidence, Mr. Cosidó, first, as political godfather in the primaries of the People's Party; then, as spokesman in the Senate, and now allowing him to pay a public salary advising the president of the Junta de Castilla y León on what. Nor did the deputy for Madrid and president of the People's Party come to the presidency of his party to place the reputed minister Fernández Díaz in his national leadership at the head of the interior area. I don't know if it would be to thank you for the management you did at the Ministry of the Interior. I'm finishing up. Mr. Gutierrez, you were talking about the binomial between security and freedom. For my party there is that binomial, but I'll tell you one more thing. Another variable must be put into play and it is equality, equality that you do not share. Without equality there is no freedom, but without an equal and free space there is no capacity if there is no security to exercise it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a priority for our party to work with justice to eradicate political police from the Ministry of the Interior. This is to defend the honourability of the police and the Civil Guard. We need to make profound changes to the Security Act and these profound changes have to affect other areas that have to do with the Ministry of the Interior. He cited earlier that session, which was held on 21 September 2017. Well, to close my speech, I want to make an appointment that I think is quite enlightening not only about what was going on before, but about what is happening now in your party and about the mess you have about these corruption plots and that political police. The speaker of the People's Party concluded by saying: "... an extraordinary person, who has served his country in the best way he could, Mr Fernández Díaz, with honor, dignity and honesty. This group - its own - "will always recognize it. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group.- Very well!]] '" This, ladies and gentlemen, is what the People's Party has turned into and what the Ministry of the Interior and Public Security of our country has turned into. Today would have been a good day if we had all agreed to try to bring forward a normative text that is nothing more than an advance in the rights and freedoms of the citizens of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u39	Thank you, Mr. Serrada. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. - of the Joint Parliamentary Group, to enable TO ASSISTANCES TO BE ABLE TO ESTABLISH IBI BONIFICATIONS TO ENTERPRISES, SMEs, AUTONOMS, TRADE, PRIMARY SECTOR AND ENTERPRISES WHICH HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED, RESTRICTED AND AFFECTED BY THE IBI ACTIVITIES BY THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE COVID-19 HEALTH CRISIS. [[File number 122/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u40	We continue with the agenda item on taking into account the proposal for a law of the Joint Parliamentary Group to empower the municipalities so that, in a powerful way, they can establish IBI bonuses for companies, SMEs, self-employed people, trade, primary sector and entrepreneurs who have been suspended, restricted and affected by the consequences of the health crisis of COVID-19. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me begin by expressing my joy at having the opportunity to defend before Congress an initiative of its own within the restricted quota that plenary sessions devote to taking into consideration proposals for law. Despite my veteranship in the General Courts, this is the first time I have done so after almost a quarter of a century of having sworn the Constitution for the first time in the former Senate sitting room and sixteen years of intermittent parliamentary exercise. I would also like to have words of sincere gratitude to those in Asturias who are working with me to make possible initiatives such as this bill, colleagues who a year ago supported me in the Forum so that I would opt to regain my seat at the expense of being immersed in a political hunt that has cost them militancy and not a few disgusts. Ladies and gentlemen, the colossal health and socio-economic crisis resulting from the pandemic that is hitting the Spanish with force throughout 2020 has no precedent. The paralysis of the activity during the months of confinement and the immediate subsequent months has plagued all the public and private sectors, generating a distressing situation for society as a whole. The restrictions on economic activity that started with Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the health crisis caused by the COVID-19, and that extended until the beginning of last summer, have virtually stopped the Spanish economy, with the known consequences in terms of social welfare. The paralysis continues for many activities and we are all extremely concerned about this second wave of coronavirus that we are already suffering and that can end up exacerbating even more the dangerous situation that stands in the way of our present and threatens our future. It is obvious, even if it is still early to talk about the consequences that all this has entailed on the productive fabric, which will be of an unknown magnitude so far in our contemporary history. That is why we have thought that the time has come to adopt, as a matter of urgency, specific rules that include proactive measures to facilitate the recovery of economic activity, generating confidence in the recovery and generation of employment and, finally, ensuring that a scenario of progressive recovery of normality can be created as quickly and as agilely as possible, while maintaining the highest possible level of health security. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many local authorities who have been expressing their intention to develop tax initiatives to mitigate the serious effects of the paralysis of activity on businesses, SMEs, self-employed people, businesses, the primary sector and entrepreneurs based on their respective municipal terms and who, however, cannot do so because the basic legislation of the State prevents it. This is precisely why this proposal for a law has been managed, that of removing such obstacles without undermining the constitutionally established municipal autonomy, by making rest in each local government and its competent bodies the application of those measures that facilitate things to companies located in its territory through the articulation of this legislative amendment. What is promoted by this proposal is that the proposed tax subsidies can be applied in the current fiscal year 2020 in order to respond agilely to the tax measures that each municipality considers regarding property tax, a possibility that has been admitted by the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. In this regard, it should be recalled that its Third Chamber has repeatedly stated that fiscal ordinances may be applied retroactively when expressly authorized by law, in this case the basic legislation on local finances, since the decision to grant non-retroactivity to specific property benefits such as tax benefits is the sole responsibility of the legislator. As you are well aware, especially those who treasure the enormous privilege of having been mayors or councillors of their towns and cities, the municipalities do not have an all-encompassing freedom to impose taxable acts on themselves and on those of previous years. For this reason, the possibility here of empowering the IBI for this financial year 2020 can only be applied to the extent that a rule with a law rank allows for certain assumptions to be made regarding the early application of a tax figure with respect to the date of publication of the regulatory order. Only then will the local corporation authorized by this unique legal rule be able to agree and make it known, as is also recognized in several judgements of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court. In short, only the law can alter the principle of ordinary legality that the ordinance precedes the debtor, i.e. only to the extent that it was established or permitted by law. As the honourable Members have been able to warn in the only article of this proposal, what is involved here is to add a paragraph with number seven to article 74 of Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, approving the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act, relating to the IBI; a paragraph providing that fiscal ordinances may regulate a bonus of up to 90% of the full share of the tax in favour of immovable property in which any type of economic activity that has been suspended, restricted or affected by the consequences of Royal Decree 463/2020, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the health crisis situation caused by the COVID-19, provided that such a tax is paid by the natural or legal person carrying on that activity. The unique features and scope of the bonus, its duration, annual amount and other substantive and formal aspects shall be specified in the tax ordinance. Similarly, a first final provision is included, according to which, on an exceptional basis and taking into account the circumstances underlying this Act, the provisions of this Act may apply in the current fiscal year 2020 and extend until the tax year 2023, entering this Act which we propose the day following its publication in the State Official Gazette. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with article 31.1 of the Spanish Constitution, article 3 of the General Tax Act, in relation to articles 105 to 116 of the Law on the Basis of Local Regime, recalls the principles of justice, equality, progressiveness, equitable distribution of the tax burden and non-confessionality, establishing its second point that the system will ensure respect for the rights and guarantees of taxable persons. Well, none of these mandates can be fulfilled in the case of those economic activities in which the usual tasks during the state of alarm could not be carried out and which, for the same reason, cannot be taxed by the tax, at least at the time when the restrictions imposed by the coronavirus had to leave their usual task. What is also called for is neither discrimination nor a clear selective advantage in some other tax subjects, since it only corrects a disadvantage to those affected by the tax, although it does not develop any activity in their real estate for months. There is therefore no disguised State aid, but it fits perfectly into what Article 107(1) of the Treaty on European Union allows, not to mention illegal tax exemption, but an impeccable exercise of tax justice. A consolidated case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union through several judgments has stressed that proceedings such as the proposal can only be allowed if they are justified for compelling reasons of general interest. In the present case, the objective justification for the public interest behind this legal amendment is clear, and therefore there is no infringement of the Community provision cited above. It is therefore not possible to consider unlawful aid for tax interventions, such as this, which are intended to alleviate the burdens normally borne by all undertakings or economic activities and not by certain undertakings or activities, apart from the powerful reasons of general interest for this. Together, it should be stressed that, as is well known, legal certainty obliges administrations to create a stable, predictable and integrated regulatory framework. No economic activity could provide for an exercise such as the current one of the pandemic, with such an accused activity being halted for so long. For this reason, it is also recommended that the tax on real property should be tempered in this year to this unpredictable situation that arose with the arrival of COVID-19. The principles of good faith and legitimate trust laid down in the provisions of Law 40/2015 of 1 October 2015 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector are also perfectly applicable to relations between public administrations and administrations, whether they are relations of general or special supremacy, and there is a presumption of good faith which the administrations enjoy, thus declared jurisprudentially since ancient times by the Supreme, but which will yield with proof to the contrary. The High Court has said that legitimate confidence arises when the relationship between the Administration and the Administration is based on sufficiently conclusive external signs, coupled with damage that is reasonably believed not to occur. In short, there must be - and I quote it literally - a threshold of confidence in the stability of the legal order and market situations that justify reasons of public interest. For all this, changes in the legal status quo must always attempt to make the public and private interests at stake compatible through predictability, as if a conduct of the public authorities is surprising and unanticipated or in accordance with the conditions in force, it is then necessary to make reparation for the justified economic damage that may occur. I conclude, Madam President, by summarising that from what I have said, it follows that, as a result of these relations between public and private subjects presided over by legal certainty, good faith and mutual trust, the municipalities which may improve the receipt of the IBI, the property tax, those in which economic activities are carried out in their municipal term and which have not been able to open their doors during the pandemic, should be allowed to benefit not only the productive fabric, but also the employment and social welfare of their territory. If we do not approve it here, in the General Courts, let us know that it will certainly be the courts that will adjust such injustice in the law, which will certainly contribute little to the credibility of this House before the citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. On a position-setting basis, I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u43	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. The initiative presented by the Forum aims to amend the Local Finance Regulatory Act to allow tax ordinances to include a tax bonus on real estate in which economic activities are carried out that have been suspended, restricted or affected by the state of alarm, and all this, we understand, in order to try to minimize the impact caused by the pandemic due to this halting of economic activity. One initiative, in short, like so many others, is to help the survival of businesses and businesses. On the other hand, it also seems to claim part of the autonomy of the municipalities so that they can have the possibility, if they consider it so, to take those measures more appropriate to the needs of their citizens through the fees. That being said, if, despite what we are discussing here, it is the consideration and not the content, we understand that this, the content, should be nuanced, always taking into account what the municipalities themselves are manifesting. I insist that this proposal requires greater nuance and, moreover, it must be borne in mind that this issue is closely linked, or indissolubly linked, to municipal funding. While it might be that at first sight it could be a good measure to alleviate the consequences of COVID on economic activity, it is also true that it would also imply the need for other measures at the level of the municipalities to alleviate this decrease in municipal collection, in the case of opting for such a bonus, because what is taken off one side requires an increase on the other; otherwise, it would mean cuts in other areas due to that lower collection. In addition, and by delving a little further, these measures, to whom would they apply? To all establishments that have had to close, to those that have been open but that have had less collection, to the owners of the properties or only to those owners who are owners of establishments and regent them? If, moreover, it is a question of the municipalities being able to have greater autonomy and to decide in a broader way as to their taxes or fees, this initiative should have been treated with them because it is a matter that affects them fully. That is why I wonder whether this initiative comes from the municipalities themselves and whether it has been treated and agreed, for example, in the FEMP, as a body representing the municipalities of the common system. Because it is paradoxical at times that this role of the EMFF is claimed in so many issues and perhaps now this issue has not even been brought to this body. This initiative deals with a tax in which the outside territories have jurisdiction and, as you already know, this group does not usually interfere with those debates that affect tax matters if they concern taxes or concerted taxes of autonomous regulation in which the historical territories have full regulatory capacity to regulate the different tax concepts, as is the case here. In addition, and should a decision be taken on this for Euskadi, it would be the General Councils for each historical territory that should agree on it, always, of course, with the consensus of the municipalities, as I have said, as entities responsible for managing this tax within our framework, within the framework of the Eudel, the Association of Basque Municipalities, its representative body. As this proposal does not apply to the outside territories and in order not to condition the outcome of that debate because, as I have said, it is a tax issue for others, this group will abstain in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal for a law that we like in Citizens; an initiative that we call a useful policy because it deals with the problems of the Spaniards and not with the problems of the politicians. A proposal with much content and little ideology, where what you vote with is more important than who you vote with. I would therefore like to tell you that my group will support the adoption of this bill, although we will introduce some amendments which seek to improve the text and extend the aid to a wider sector of the businesses affected by the pandemic. The gentlemen of Forum plant bonuses in the tax of real estate to businesses and businesses that have seen their activity damaged by the COVID. In my group, as it could not be otherwise, we see this proposal with good eyes, especially since this legislative amendment has already been tabled by Citizens as an amendment to the COVID decrees adopted in this House. In fact, the City of Madrid, where we govern in coalition with the People's Party, was the first to propose tax cuts both in the IBI and in the tax on economic activities and other taxes at the municipal level. In particular, it takes time in Madrid to approve the 25% bonus on both taxes for, for example, leisure or hospitality. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this initiative which aims to help SMEs, self-employed people, workers and all those who create wealth and jobs in our country and who are having such a bad time. No initiative remains in the double task of saving lives and saving jobs. Welcome to all political forces who want to join in this political truce, leaving aside ideological or party issues and rowing together in the right direction. We speak in this initiative of the municipalities, the first institutional line against COVID and the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic. Our municipalities are the first place that citizens and SMEs come to when they have problems so that they can be helped. That is to say, exactly the opposite of what we are seeing with the Government's decree on the remnant of the municipalities, which was fortunately rejected in this House, but which keeps in uncertainty and without means thousands of consistories throughout Spain. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth highlighting the disappointment that continues to produce us the attitude of this Government, which continues to act in isolation, unilaterally and without paying attention to the plans, the reforms or the agreements adopted in the Commission for Reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens rule in four hundred municipalities in our country and do you know what our mayors tell us? They need help, but not for them, but for their neighbors. There's not a single mayor in all of Spain who's not asking for help. As you will know, ladies and gentlemen, the IBI is a tax that has been transferred but is of a state nature. This means that the municipalities do not have the power to improve it, but need a state authorization that allows them to introduce the bonuses they want. This initiative, ladies and gentlemen, aims to amend the Local Finance Regulatory Act in its Article 74, which sets out the list of bonuses to be applied in the IBI, to gather a more relative assumption of the possible bonus of up to 90 % of the quota in the case of buildings in which any type of economic activity that has been suspended, restricted or affected by the declaration of the state of alarm and confinement from 2020 to 2023 is carried out. It is true, as I mentioned earlier, that some municipalities, such as Madrid, have already regulated IBI bonuses for these affected properties, subsuming this bonus in other already existing bonuses. Because there is no time to waste and all the aid is limited, we have to deal with this and support initiatives like this. We must carry them out in the interests of greater equality and legal certainty for all parties, so that they have the opportunity with this legislative amendment to make these bonuses. We know that this bonus in the IBI of the premises of those businesses that have been seriously affected is not enough, but it is certainly a step in the right direction. Therefore, in Citizens we are working on amendments to improve this change and make aid to SMEs and self-employed more effective. For example, we propose to extend these municipal subsidies also to the tax on economic activities. Ladies and gentlemen, with so many workers affected by an ERTE, the majority belonging to the tourism and hospitality sector - in particular, in the travel agencies only 11% of the employees with ERTE have returned to their jobs -; with barometers like that of ATA, which indicates that the activity of the self-employed does not reach 50% and that there is the possibility of more than 300 000 businesses being lost during the remainder of the year; with a tourist sector giving up the summer season for the mismanagement and the bad image of our country in the management of the health crisis; with 25% of our companies - one in four - in a situation of technical bankruptcy according to the Bank of Spain - almost 40% if we talk about the hospitality sector - with all this above the table any aid is little. With all this information, ladies and gentlemen, how are we not going to put all the measures on the table? How can we not vote in favour of aid just because it is proposed by someone who is not in our ideological tune? How are we going to explain to a self-employed person or a SME that they are approaching the city council in search of help that this is state or autonomous? And why not, let the municipalities decide? The problems of the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, must be above the problems of the administrations or the territories. Let's make it possible because it's in our hands and that's what they pay us for. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u47	Thank you, President. Today I must begin this intervention by regretting a situation that occurred yesterday in Catalonia, and it is that the President of the Generalitat, democratically elected by the Parliament of Catalonia, was disqualified in an absolutely unjust and undemocratic way, through a judicial ruling that some day the European courts are going to have reconsidered. Some of you may be concerned that I say this from here, from the rostrum; what should be of concern to you is that the current Spanish democracy disables a president by hanging a banner, when similar disobediences by other political groups or by other government presidents to the Central Electoral Board have been fined. Having said that, let us go to the question before us, Mr Martínez Oblanca. I must thank you for the presentation of this initiative, although we have doubts because, in fact, the pressure that we all had during the months of April, May, June, of many mayors, of many councillors who wanted to react to a situation of absolute exceptionality - and it is no reproach, of course - can lead us to legislate in hot and to legislate in hot implies giving a possibility through the amendment of the Law Regulating Local Treasurys to include a new - the seventh - potential bonus in the property tax. And one wonders, only in the property tax? In the event of exceptional circumstances, should we not be able to act on the tax on economic activities? Couldn't we even act on the tax on mechanical traction vehicles? How many vehicles of self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises have been immobilized by the imposition of the state of alarm, have not been able to circulate and have continued to pay the tax on mechanical traction vehicles? Therefore, the doubts that attack us are many and we understand that, in fact, an amendment to the Local Finance Act is needed, but at a more global level and for years. It is necessary specifically for the municipalities also to have the capacity to respond to situations of absolute exceptionality such as the one we have experienced. You in your legislative proposal refer to the possibility of improving those activities affected by the state of alarm decree that was finally approved in March and that this bonus will be applicable between 2020 and 2023, but we also do not know what is ahead of us, we do not know if there will be other future state of alarm decrees due to similar situations. Our reflection, therefore, is that the legislative amendment that should be proposed would have to be more profound and not enter into the specific situation of the IBI of certain premises. Do you know how many owners have had to reduce their income, when not condoning the income of those businesses that have had to close because of the state of alarm? Would it not also perhaps be reasonable to propose a bonus for these cases and not only for those in which the ownership of the premises coincides with the ownership of the activity? This is an example not to undermine the proposal, which under no circumstances, but to try to illustrate to them that the problems faced by the municipalities are very different and very diverse and that, when it comes to legislation, we should do so with this broad view, applying the principle of subsidiarity to the maximum. If it were for me, surely the list of potential potential bonuses, not only from the IBI, but from the rest of the local taxes, would be much bigger so that each city council could decide according to what it wanted to prioritize. However, you are also aware of that short-term struggle which, at the municipal level, as in the context of this House, is sometimes raised by political parties. One when he governs wants few bonuses to be applied and, when he does not govern, he wants all the bonuses in the world to be applied and some more. That is why, appreciating your initiative, we are not going to vote against it, but we are not going to support it either; we are going to abstain. I appeal to the whole House to reflect that the Local Finance Act needs to be amended, also so that municipalities have the agility and responsiveness to unexpected situations in an emergency such as that generated by COVID or any other. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u49	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We discussed this bill to enable municipalities to set up bonuses in the IBI. And speaking of town halls, I would like to start by saying that yesterday, at seven o'clock in the afternoon, thousands of people in Catalonia concentrated in front of town halls throughout the country, respecting the distance of security and mask, to protest against the disqualification of the president, Quim Torra, through an unjust, anti-democratic sentence, for hanging a banner that put: Llibertat political prisoners and exiles. You see, for Spanish justice to hang a banner that calls for the freedom of innocent people has to be punished, and it is that Spanish justice, controlled by the far right, does not impart justice, but imparts revenge. Therefore, from here full solidarity, support and outreach to the President, Quim Torra. [[Applauds]] The closure of shops, premises and so many businesses during the state of alarm has caused a dramatic situation. While revenues are reduced to literally zero, bills and receipts keep coming. It is clear that in this emergency context, public administrations must act and help to alleviate this situation, because we do believe in a strong state, unlike all those who have consistently gambled for years to reduce the state, but who are now, in difficult times, the first to come to its rescue. We said this from the outset: injection of resources to prevent the chain of payments from breaking down, measures such as the suspension of the quota of self-employed workers or direct aid to self-employed workers who have seen their incomes drastically reduced, as the Generalitat of Catalonia has already done. In short, expansive policies not to make the mistakes of the past again. This bill focuses on the actions of the municipalities, in particular the amendment of the Local Finance Regulatory Act so that the municipalities can improve up to 90% of the IBI to companies affected by the economic closure. And we must act, no doubt, but, Mr Martínez Oblanca, we do not believe that this is the most appropriate measure to address the needs arising from the pandemic, and I will try to explain it. IBI is the most important figure in the municipal sphere and therefore any change in this figure can have a very important impact that needs to be calibrated very well. On the other hand, it is not a figure linked to a specific service or to the development of an economic activity, but a tax linked to property. In addition, this amendment would mainly favour persons holding real estate where such economic activity is carried out, excluding all rental businesses. We therefore believe that solutions should be provided by means of ad hoc direct aid to the most affected sectors. Therefore, it is not our optimal model of intervention that you propose. I cannot conclude without insisting once again - today I have done so in the Committee on Finance this morning - on the tools that must be put in the hands of the municipalities to deal with this social, health and economic crisis. It is urgent to amend the Budget Stability Act, to end the current framework that prioritizes the payment of debt. We must allow the municipalities to make free use of all their accumulated surplus for years and years of good governance. We must allow them to incur deficits in a context in which there is consensus that the recipe should be through expansive policies. Finally, we must also allow the municipalities to participate in the management of European funds. For all this, we will vote against. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u50	Thank you, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u51	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. This proposal opens two debates which are interesting and which, moreover, this House has an obligation to address: the first, how we assist workers, workers and also self-employed because of the consequences of the reduction of activity in this crisis, which is already a social and economic crisis; and the second, the financing of our municipalities. These are two reflections that are connected. The first point is essential in its proposal for a law because it seeks to establish mechanisms that can reduce the impact on businesses, SMEs, self-employed people, businesses, the primary sector and also entrepreneurs who have seen their activity reduced as a result of COVID19. Mr Martínez Oblanca, that mechanism has a name, it's called a social shield, and that's what this coalition government has launched, surprisingly many times with the vote against or with a speech that is profoundly opposed to the formation you represent. As you know, the purpose of this social shield approved by the coalition government has been precisely to prevent this government from doing the same as that of the People's Party in the face of the 2008 crisis, when austerity measures were imposed, cuts in public services, transfers to private capital and also restrictions on the most vulnerable families. That crisis left us without the basic tools to respond to today's needs. Today we miss those public resources that the People's Party took either in the form of cuts or in the form of corruption. The coalition government has taken over this social shield of tens of thousands of workers' wages through the ERTE. Today we have very good news, and it is how the coalition government and the minister, Yolanda Díaz, have managed to reach an agreement to prolong these ERTs and that families can reach the end of the month as well. Not having enough, this coalition government negotiated in Europe as never before had been negotiated - also with the disloyalty of the People's Party and VOX, which are the first to take out the flag, but then negotiate against the interests of the workers of this country - and in that negotiation it got 750 billion euros for all of Europe, of which 140 billion will come to Spain. On the second issue, that of financing the local world, it is an element of silence that cannot be tackled with patches, and you know that our parliamentary group is also prepared to address it. Moreover, we have recently done so in this House with the debate on the surplus of the municipalities in a decree that was not supported by the majority of this House. We are working to close an agreement and build a new consensus on local funding. This must be done within the framework of the institutions representing the municipal world and, of course, we must listen to the municipalities and count on them, because you have neither listened to the municipal world nor counted on the representative organizations of the local world to bring to this House the proposal that is before us today. These agreements must be the basis for the new financing and local sufficiency measures and must guarantee something important on what we do have consensus on in all the municipalities, which is an unconditional fund equivalent to the EUR 16 billion fund that has been allocated to the Autonomous Communities. This local economic stimulus fund must be exceptional and in order to provide funding to all local authorities, regardless of whether or not they have surpluses. This fund must respond to the budgetary impact and also to the fall in revenue motivated by COVID19, which is the reflection you are putting forward to bring forward this bill. There is also a comprehensive agreement between the municipal world to set up this local fund COVID-19 of €5 billion and this is expressed in some documents of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. I ended, Mr Martínez Oblanca, with two reflections that deepened our vote against this proposal for a law. The first is that if this legal change is approved as you propose, it could give the incomprehensible situation that, for example, the commercial basements of a building owned by a company - let's put Zara - were subsidized in the IBI and, instead, the worker who lives in the third of the same building, who has been sentenced to unemployment by that same company, was not subsidized when paying the IBI. That is an incongruity that goes against the basic essence of redistribution of wealth that must have any tax figure. The second is that the amendment that you are proposing could already be applied on the basis of Article 74.2 of the Consolidated Law on Local Finance. I would like to remind you that it was modified precisely to give an ad hoc response to the need - and you will recall the debate at that time - to see how we were giving tax benefits to the company that wanted to install Eurovegas in Spain, and in our parliamentary group we believe that this is not a good way of dealing with the tax debate with measures that are not structural. In conclusion, Mr Martínez Oblanca, you are starting from an initial reflection that we share in the Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos; the reflection has to do with the situation caused by the unexpected and abrupt increase in public spending COVID-19, we need additional revenue. That same reflection has justified the social shield and those measures carried out by the coalition Government. This must also be the extraordinary solution for the income growth needs of the local world for three reasons: firstly, there is no consensus on what you propose; secondly, it also means reducing income for the municipalities at a time when income is indispensable; and thirdly - and I conclude, Madam President - we would close solidarity between administrations. The state receives 140 billion euros from the European Union, the autonomous communities will receive 16 billion euros from the state and the municipalities at the moment not only receive nothing, but also with this proposal you condemn them to collect less. Therefore, let us join forces to ensure that unconditional fund, which could respond to the needs of our municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martínez Oblanca is presenting us with a proposal for a law that will allow the municipalities to reduce tax burdens and help businesses in their continuity. We are therefore talking about crises and taxes. Today we are talking about the IBI, a tax that entered into force on 1 January 1990 with the presidency of the government of Felipe González. Of course, in creating new taxes and in raising those existing in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, they are real specialists. [[Applauds]] They are also involved in implementing measures as social as those carried out in 2011 by freezing pensions or cutting staff salaries. This proposal is of a powerful nature in its application, since I, who are of numbers, have analysed the actual data in the provinces in which citizens are subjected to greater fiscal pressure. For this we have calculated the ratio between the net share and the liquidated base. It is not surprising to see that it is the citizens of Catalonia, especially those of Lérida and Tarragona, who bear greater fiscal pressure for this tax. And then come the citizens who live in cities with socialist mayors, like Huelva, Huesca or Lugo. One point; in VOX we propose a minimum reduction of 50% of IBI and a total exemption for large families, 50% in families with children and total exemption for large families. [[Applauds]] A measure of common sense knowing that Spain, together with Holland, is the least helpful country dedicated to families and children. Ladies and gentlemen, getting out of the economic crisis requires the following. One, trust me. It suspends the Government in view of the data from the business confidence index, currently at 95.5 points, the lowest value in the historical series. No one can trust the worst government in the euro area by managing the economic crisis. It's not an opinion, it's data. The fall in the Spanish economy's GDP in the second quarter of 2020 was 17.8%, compared to an average of 12.1% in the euro area. Two, credibility. It suspends the Government in view of the deficit of 2.83 % of the public accounts in 2019, well above the initial budget of 1.3%, which then rose to 2%; the difference between 2.83 % and 1.3% is the naught negligible figure of EUR 19 billion. Three, legal certainty. It suspends the Government by maintaining uncertainty about the existing labour framework and by wanting to return to rigid policies that hinder job creation. Four, sense of state. It suspends the Government by not having a plan to undertake the necessary structural reforms needed by the Spanish economy. The European Commission itself estimates that the structural deficit of the Spanish economy in 2019 amounted to 4%, well above the average of 1.1% of the euro area countries, and that we will end 2021 by 5.2% of the deficit compared to an average deficit of 2.1% of the euro area countries. Five, medium- and long-term vision. Spain has to be an attractive country for investment, a country that bets on reindustrialisation, training, innovation and digitisation. And what do we find? Youth unemployment is 41.7% compared to 17% on average in the euro area countries, and we only spend 34% of the aid received from the euro area. Ladies and gentlemen, getting out of the economic crisis requires initiative, not going after events. The VOX Parliamentary Group is the one that has presented the most initiatives in Congress. We have put forward 20 proposals for legislation, including that for the abolition of inheritance and donation tax, a basic measure to encourage the continuity of the family enterprise in Spain; let us not forget that the family enterprise represents, according to the data of its own institute, more than 88 % of the number of enterprises, 60 % of the gross value added and 70 % of the employment in Spain. [[Applauds]] It is an initiative that the Government has illegally vetoed. We are going to appeal to the Constitutional Court. We have also presented - data to September 2 - 489 non-law propositions; by the way, more than twice as much as the PSOE and United We can together, the latter seem to be more interested in attacking their majesty the king than in working. [[Applauds]] Among them, I would like to highlight the one presented on 18 March concerning the adoption of fiscal measures to cushion the impact of COVID-19 on the Spanish economy. We have proposed numerous initiatives to help businesses, SMEs, self-employed people, businesses, the primary sector and entrepreneurs. Among them, first, tax contingency plans proposing major tax reductions, such as company tax and electricity tax; also, tax incentive plans for the return of production from domestic companies to Spain; and the application of reduced and super-reduced VAT rates to help sectors in difficulty. Secondly, financial-economic contingency plans proposing liquidity-enhancing measures, improvements in access to finance markets for SMEs and self-employed people, payment of outstanding invoices by public administrations and the general adoption of the cash criterion for the settlement of VAT. Thirdly, specific proposals for the automotive sector, small business, hospitality, the primary sector, tourism, hairdressers and sports enterprises, among others. We have worked with our councillors and proposed tax and tax reduction measures in municipalities, such as the IBI, the garbage rate or the public domain occupancy rate. We have put forward 320 requests to appear in the Commission and thousands of questions that have been passed on to us by the many economic sectors with which we have met. VOX listens to the citizens and that is why we put forward a motion of censure, demanded by a large majority of the Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u54	Mr. Saez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, common sense should always guide political action, and more so in a situation of economic recession. It is common sense to realise that maintaining and creating employment is the best policy to promote the recovery of private consumption, which accounts for 60% in the determination of gross domestic product. It is the best way to recover the levels of collection and thus cushion the impact of the crisis on public accounts, so deteriorated by the successive governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party. In conclusion, I reiterate that economic recovery will only be possible if we regain consumer demand and confidence and support businesses. This proposal goes that way and the VOX Group will vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Vox Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u56	Thank you, Mr. Saez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Píriz Maya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing today the consideration of a proposal for a law of Foro Asturias to enable the municipalities to establish IBI bonuses for companies that have suffered during the crisis of the coronavirus. It is a convenient and timely proposal that puts on the table the problem that the municipalities of this country have when they want to establish some kind of tax bonus, something for which they are not empowered. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country whose government has only one slogan factory. We were told that we would come out stronger, that we had defeated the virus or that we would not leave anyone behind, slogans adorned with noisy and endless television appearances that were nothing more than smokescreens, because, far from getting out stronger, the left and the extreme left of this country, that coalition government that in the morning insults the king and in the evening lies to the citizens, have left behind millions of Spaniards during these months. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the left and the far left of this country, those of the social shield, those of the slogans, are leaving behind more than 56 000 dead in this pandemic and their families, they are leaving behind more than 52 000 infected health care workers or more than 150 000 Spaniards in receipt of an ERTE who still did not receive their benefit by the end of August. Gentlemen of the left and the far left, would you be able to survive without charging anything since March, like those 150,000 people I have referred to? Do you think they've left them behind? It has also left behind hundreds of thousands of businesses and self-governing companies, which have closed down, are closing down and will be closing down because they are unable to withstand the drastic measures of containment and hibernation of the economy decreed by the Government. They also leave behind the 750 000 Spaniards to whom they generated expectations and applied for a minimum living income, to which they have not yet been answered. Or the nearly 3 million workers in the tourism sector, who were also left behind. First this government insulted them and now abandons them by not asking Europe for the aid that the EU has created for this sector. Ladies and gentlemen, they said they were not going to leave anyone behind, but I think everyone I have mentioned feels that they have. Just as they said that we would get stronger as we see how national GDP sinks almost 18% in the second quarter of 2020, or how according to the updated forecasts of the Bank of Spain, GDP will be reduced by 13% at the end of the year, or how the unemployment rate will be 18% in 2020 and 22% in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about overcoming the 5 million unemployed in this country - stronger, they say - or we are talking about debt, which according to the Bank of Spain can reach 128% of GDP by 2022. And with this data on the table, the Government has opted for misinformation, confrontation with some territories and, above all, for leaving these administrations abandoned, which have taken their toll during these months and have been close to the citizens. They have left abandoned to the municipalities, to those more than 8,000 municipalities of our country, those municipalities to which the Government has not given one euro - or one - during the pandemic, but to those who tried to steal all their savings with that royal decree that established a corralito about these administrations, that decree that was not what the municipalities needed, that excluded the rural world and those who had closed 2019 with remnant of negative treasury and that destroyed the local autonomy recognized in article 137 of the Spanish Constitution. It was a real blackmail to the municipalities and deputies of our country and was strongly rejected by this House without the presence of the minister in the vote, which proved not to know how to lose and not understand the reality of the local entities, for which it is necessary to be at least councillor. But again the government announces a real decree-law that comes late and is insufficient. It is insufficient because it does not include the $5 billion fund for all unconditional local entities, for all municipalities, whether they have savings or not. Citizens are not to blame for the incompetence of their representatives and should not pay for it, which is why they have generated during this pandemic. And besides being an unconditional fund it must be accompanied by a fund of 1 billion to alleviate the deficit of urban public transport generated during this pandemic. This decree, announced by the Government, also goes on to ensure the participation of the municipalities in the funds that Spain will receive from the European Union and to implement a mechanism for the local entities with a positive cash balance to be able to use that balance in its entirety. You know, socialists, that this new decree has raised the opinion against all the spokespersons on the governing board of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces because they consider it insufficient, also the opinion against the representative of Podemos; of all but his. Again alone, socialist gentlemen, back to the rest of the parties, again isolated from the rest of the country's mayors, once again defending the indefensible, but the People's Party will be there during this crisis in the face of the Government's demise of office. In the face of the disappearance of the ministers, in the face of the failure of management and the lies that they have been telling us, one after another, it has been the local entities to which the citizens have addressed themselves to solve their problems, to receive social aid, in order to be able to survive in many cases. It has been the mayors of this country who have spent nights on holiday worried about their citizens while others were dedicated to applauding in Moncloa, filtering wasaps, logos, emblems, slogans, going on vacation, handling media or trying to manipulate public opinion. The real policy is that of our mayors, who every day give a lesson to this government by taking out from where they can help of all kinds for their businesses and self-employed, for their citizens, for their families or their elders. They have been the real social shield and from this goes this bill, to allow these municipalities to remain the social shield of their citizens, to allow local entities to improve their businesses and autonomous, those who make Spain and those who generate real employment, to help them overcome the crisis. That is the way, to lower taxes to boost the activity of our businesses and autonomous, just the opposite of what we expect with this government in the General Budgets of the State of 2020. The Spaniards know that they do not have their Government, that the left and the far left of this country are not a solution to their problems, that when you take them out of marketing, to manipulate the CIS and to control public television they do not know how to manage; they do not know or are expected. Churchill already said: The virtue inherent in socialism is the equitable distribution of misery. The Spaniards know that from those who have made a lie their way of doing politics can expect nothing, from those who left Spain in ruin in 2011, from those who saw green outbreaks, as now, little can wait. On the other hand - I conclude, Madam President - if the Spaniards seek management, seek seriousness, seek solutions to their problems, if the Spaniards seek a party that defends the Constitution, the employment, the well-being and that whenever he ruled managed the left-wing misadjustments, that is the only and exclusively the People's Party. Here we are and here we will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Píriz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group shares the concern about the situation of businesses, SMEs and the self-employed created by the unprecedented health and economic crisis caused by the pandemic. The Socialist Group can share the intention of the initiative, but the chosen route, the exemption from property tax, does not seem the most appropriate to solve the problems. We have three important arguments, I would say, in order to oppose the initiative: first, the Local Finance Act already provides for the possibility of improving the IBI; second, many economic activities are carried out in rental premises and the taxable person of the property tax is the owner of the property, not the tenant. This circumstance is transcendental since it determines the ineffectiveness of the proposed measure. And, thirdly and very important for us, for the Socialist Group, this initiative, this proposal for a law, proposes to reduce the incomes of the municipalities by further aggravating the economic situation of suffocation that they drag from the government of the People's Party. I'll start by scrimmaging the first argument. Local authorities already have a regulatory instrument that can be applied in the sense outlined in the proposed law that we are discussing. Article 74.2 of the Consolidated Law on Local Finance provides that local authorities may approve a bonus of up to 95 % of the full share of the tax - I literally read - "in favour of buildings in which economic activities are carried out which are declared to be of particular interest or of municipal utility because of social, cultural, historical-artistic or employment-promoting circumstances justifying such a declaration". This tax benefit pursued by the proposed law can be used in the current situation on the basis of social and employment-enhancing circumstances. Furthermore, Mr Martínez Oblanca, the municipalities have other mechanisms to help self-employed or small and medium-sized enterprises, perhaps much more coherent and effective: they can grant aid, they can grant subsidies, and many municipalities are already doing so. These economic and financial difficulties of the activities concerned may be claimed in the event that they are taxable to postpone the receipt until sufficient liquidity is available. In addition, the initiative can lead to real uncontrollability because it alludes to affected activities, so implementation will certainly be widespread. Almost all, if not all, activities have been affected by the pandemic. Second weight argument. The proposed law introduces great legal uncertainty with regard to properties that can or cannot access the bonus and could also violate the principles of tax justice set out in the Spanish Constitution: generality, economic capacity, equality, progressiveity and non-confessionality. Why? Because many economic activities, as we told you, are carried out in rental premises and the taxable person of the property tax is the owner of the property, it is not the tenant. Therefore, if this bonus is approved by some municipality, the owners of the buildings in which the activity is carried out could be favored, it could be that without economic problems associated with the COVID-19, and without the measure having any impact on the owner of the activity in the premises that the activity is carried out and that there could be economic problems. Moreover, as the bonus is made on a specific receipt of a particular property, it may be that in 2020, when applying this bonus, it is occupied by an activity that is intended to be supported, but that a few months later it is left empty or occupied by another without any financial problem related to COVID-19. In conclusion, it would generate unfair treatment and render the measure ineffective. Thirdly, the proposed measure would further aggravate the financial situation of the Spanish municipalities. Are you aware, Mr. Martínez Oblanca, of the economic asphyxiation situation experienced by the municipalities since the People's Party government unilaterally adopted the Budget Stability Act in 2012, or in December 2013 Larsal? Have you consulted the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces? We have not heard the institution representing 95% of the Spanish local governments claim what you bring to this debate. IBI accounts for almost 27.8% of ordinary income for municipalities, almost 40% in tourist municipalities, and this bonus could have a perverse effect on public accounts for these municipalities because the accumulation of income reductions would limit their ability to meet other essentially social needs that they need to address in their day-to-day lives. The municipalities have already improved the commercial waste, the entry of vehicles, the supply of water, sanitation, fees for work and activity licenses and the tax on constructions, installations and works by 25%, which is already a good bite for revenue. And this bonus, although it is powerful, being provided for in the norm would open up a tremendous political debate. We've seen him here. We are talking about tax exemption mostly supported by the right-wing bloc and, in front of it, the provision of quality public services. Ladies and gentlemen, expenses in the municipalities - some of you are mayors - have increased substantially in this pandemic time in essential services such as local police, civil protection, firefighters, social services, care for vulnerable people, cleaning and disinfection of squares and streets, management of schools and civic centers... This situation I am describing makes the sustainability of essential services unsustainable if income is reduced. So if this proposal came forward, the municipalities, for lack of economic resources, might have to stop providing basic services to their neighbours. For all these reasons, the Socialist Group cannot support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u61	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on measures to prevent and address the phenomenon of octopus. Mr Bal Francés has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u62	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, ladies and gentlemen of the left, the problem of ocupation is that you are not seeing the elephant in the room, but it is that, in fact, more than an elephant, what you are not seeing is a dinosaur, a dinosaur that is a tremendous scourge that is bittering the life of tens of thousands of Spanish families, who are families that have fulfilled their entire life with the law, who have paid their tax obligations, who have worked hard to get a home and to which the law turns their backs. We have a law that defends criminals and leaves the victims of crime completely helpless. [[The Lord]] Unfortunately, in this House we often see sterile debates, partisan debates, debates that try to encourage confrontation between the Spanish, and I say to you that with this issue of ocupation we have the possibility to offer the Spanish common solutions, solutions of consensus regarding general problems. Says We may be in the presence of an oversized problem. Look, oversized is frustration, it's impotence, it's insecurity, it's the problems of cohabitation that many communities of owners have that meet precisely with the problem of okupation. The law is an instrument that protects the weakest, that protects the most vulnerable from the most powerful; the law is an instrument that protects citizens from the arbitrariness of those who wish to realize their right by themselves without being subject to that law. And we're meeting with some gentlemen who'll take over a house and tell their rightful owner: get into litigation, pay a lawyer, pay a prosecutor, and we'll see tomorrow when the judge throws me out, and in the meantime you have to pay me for supplies because if you don't, you'll be in charge of a crime. This is the best thing that can happen to those who are the victims of the okupation, because it can be found with organized mafias who use their house as a nest to commit crimes, mafias who profit by subleting the house of another to third people or find themselves in situations of extortion, as has happened, for example, recently - as we have learned from the news - in the urbanization Eurovillas, where the mafias were threatening the legitimate owners with burning their houses if they did not pay them money. And we legislators aren't going to worry about these people? Aren't we going to understand that these are vulnerable families? Or do we prefer to keep talking about the Civil War, Franco, Largo Caballero? Or, like today, that we have to necessarily talk about how a confessed criminal, who has confessed to disobeying the mandates of the Central Electoral Board, has been firmly condemned and it turns out that he could not be convicted because he was elected president of an autonomous community. It's something really troubling. There is a huge gap in the law on octopus and the Government is looking elsewhere. The two partners of the Government laugh at the victims of this crime, which only increases the problem. And don't get confused, it's not just a problem of private property, it's a security problem when in the communities of owners we find that crimes are committed and peace and coexistence is broken in that community of owners and it's a problem of coexistence when citizens, tired of doing nothing to defend them, take justice by their hand and see on television how there are cracks, punches and violence, because peaceful citizens are already tired of doing nothing. Do not confuse this problem with that of vulnerable groups who are in a situation of housing risk, who do not deceive us on the left regarding this problem because this is not the problem. For this reason, in the non-legislative proposal we set out a set of comprehensive social protection measures specifically for vulnerable groups, such as the possibility of paying for housing for debts, the study of people in a situation of housing risk, the promotion of municipal care services for these groups, the possibility of the Social Housing Fund being definitive, etc. This is not the problem and they cannot, of course, justify with this problem the legitimization of illegal octopus, which is a crime, which is the theft of possession from its rightful owner. They are mafias, they are criminal organizations, they are anti-system groups that do what I said before: extortion, profit from illegal activity. We can't look elsewhere, they are people who have worked hard to get a home owned or rented. Our system has important gaps that we intend to cover with the proposed law that citizens have registered when it comes to dealing with it: reforms of the Civil Prosecution Act in order to be able to recover the possession and legitimacy of the communities of owners; administrative measures that encourage the competences of the State Security Forces and Bodies so that they can be vacated from housing when it is appreciated that flagrant crimes are being committed within it; increase the municipal competences to fight this scourge; the social measures that I have also pointed out and the strengthening of the Criminal Code, both in the penalties and in the prompt prosecution of these crimes, precisely to deter, so that this problem is not overcome, so that this problem does not increase in our society. As I said last week from this rostrum, the Ministry of the Interior announces that in 2020 there have been 8000 ocupations, 40 ocupations a day, one in four in Catalonia with the placet and the sympathy of the mayor of Barcelona. And this is not an ideological problem, it is not a problem of right and left, however much the left try to make it go through a problem of this kind. We must remedy it, we must be useful and responsible and not waste any more time and not cause citizens to lose their possession and their time, which they will never recover. I mean vulnerable families, homeowners, neighbors who are afraid to let their children off the stairs or who are afraid when they come in at night and enter the portal alone because a part of the building is blocked by criminals. We are putting an end to the patience of our citizens with this problem and we are defrauding their confidence; let us not make further excuses not to solve the problem. Let us tell our citizens today that their political representatives want to guarantee their rights, solve their problems and make life easier for them, because that is what they pay us for. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mr Legarda Uriarte is speaking first of all by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u64	Thank you very much, President. We are presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group with a non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to adopt a series of measures aimed at preventing and curbing illegal housing, buildings and buildings. What is peculiar about this initiative is that we will soon be discussing, and also at the initiative of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, the same measures that are now being urged to be adopted by the Government but in the form of a bill, which will mean that if we take it into consideration now we will start our debate in legislative presentation to the Justice Commission, since it is involved, among other rules, in the reform of the Criminal Code and another seven with an organic nature or not. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, it is now proposed to urge the Executive to take a number of measures and, at the same time, we will be debating through a proposal for a law on the same measures to transform them into laws, but no longer counting on the Government or urging its action. This would be as much as activating two parliamentary mechanisms for the same thing as we consider cannot and should not be simultaneous, neither from a parliamentary nor from a political point of view. Parliamentaryly because non-legislative proposals are the impetus and direction of government action while legislative proposals deal with the capacity of parliamentary groups to initiate legislative activity in the House. Nor do we think that these two initiatives can and should be dealt with with in the same way and in the order presented to us, first of all the drive of the Government's action and then that of activating the legislative power of the House, because calling for support for the first in part by the groups of the House is the direct non-action to which it is treated in the second place, and not only as regards its own processing - which would have no problem at all - but also as regards its content, thus making the debate superfluous through amendments on the latter, a circumstance which goes absolutely against the logic of the processing of initiatives that aspire to become laws. For this reason and in order to co-honest in its parliamentary and political logics both citizens' initiatives and being fully aware of the seriousness of the damage caused by the illegal occupiers of real estate to their legitimate owners and owners and, in turn, to ensure the social, economic and legal protection of persons in a situation of housing vulnerability, we have proposed an amendment so that the future debate on the reform of a wide range of laws with an impact on occupiers will not be manipulated or prevent precise transactions between points of view that may be partially inconsistent. The same amendment would address people in vulnerable situations. However, while the spokesman for the proposing group, Citizens, spoke, we have been given a compromise which, like this, I see as a compromise, let us say, with the amendment proposed by the People's Group basically, with which I have to understand that ours is rejected and, in the end, that will inevitably condition our vote on this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk to you about urban legends. Luis and Juani, a marriage that retires and is going to live in the village, discover by the call of a neighbor that this modest little pistachio that cost them so much, where they raised their children, where they have all their memories, that little pistachio has been ocupated. Francisco, who accompanied Macarena, his wife, to give birth during the confinement, on his return met his octopus house, stayed in the street, with a newborn baby and had nowhere to go. Paola, a young Bolivian woman who lost her job, rented a room at her house, went out to do a message with her two-year-old baby, and when the tenant returned, she had stayed with the whole house. And so, up to the 12 000 octopus that we have been through this year, 12 000 dramas that affect not only the owners but also the neighbors who suffer it. It is not only twelve thousand but hundreds of thousands of Spaniards who are affected by this problem. The image of Spain sinks. Insecurity makes it invest elsewhere, such as Portugal, Greece, Croatia or Turkey. More urban legends: empty housing. Ladies and gentlemen, 70% of the empty houses, which you always talk about, are in rural Spain, and these are data from the INE. Last week, the Socialist MP said that we were late in these measures that my colleague Victor Sánchez del Real had proposed, but that we were late because the Government had already implemented measures through an instruction from the State Attorney General's Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not the prosecutor's office, no matter how much you confuse it. [[Applauds]] A simple internal investigation by the prosecutor's office does not link the judge or the judicial police. What a twisted way to use a simple internal prosecution instruction to show that the problem is solved! And it's that you're always alone in the story. Our parliamentary group presented two initiatives last June to amend the law. If you really want to change things, change the law. By the way, Mrs. Lastra, the Penal Code of 1995, not that of two hundred years ago. [[Applauds]] Because it's... The Socialist Group said that in order to combat this scourge we must build more officially protected housing, something which we applaud and surprise us, but we are surprised because today, a week ago, in the Housing Commission, both PSOE and Podemos rejected our initiative to build social housing. They blamed us for looking for the enrichment of promoters. Get out of the story, ladies and gentlemen! Of the 20,000 homes that Mr.Abalos announced in 2018 there are only 3200 in execution, just 16%. Shame on you, come on. [[Applauds]] Of course, we must help vulnerable families and our young people. I am not tired of repeating to you, the Commission after the Commission, that we are behind Europe in terms of social housing. Make a serious proposal to build social housing, give access to our young people and our families, but do screening, do not go as with Mr Espinar, Senator of Podemos, who accesses I do not know how to a social housing, gives the pass and bags the dough. It's amazing. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: What a shame!]] We don't bake with our vows. In the face of measures that reverse the benefit of the citizenry, you will always find the support of our parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, stop using the Spanish and start serving the Spanish. Let's start building. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Angolo Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u68	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking again today about illegal octopus, and yes, Mr Legarda, I am announcing that we will continue to do so, because illegal octopus has become a social problem that concerns the Spanish and against which we demand zero tolerance. Of course, the People's Party is not going to look anywhere else as 40 houses are sheltered in this country every day by taking them away from their legitimate owners. That is why we will continue to work and add where it takes to end the impunity of those who make the crime the way of access to housing and above all a business at the expense of the workers' efforts, taking advantage of the most vulnerable. Because that and that is all we talk about when we reject the illegal occupation, of protecting the right to property of workers, of the middle and humble classes, of honest tenants. We are not going to fall into the false conflict in which the left, already all extremes, turn this debate to intentionally delve into confrontation, attacking every day a right, undermining freedoms, now facing the right to property and the right to housing, as if they were incompatible things. No, ladies and gentlemen, right to property yes, obligation of the public authorities, of the Government, to facilitate the right to housing, too. [[Applauds]] We will not fall into the direction - sponsored, that would say Mr Rufián - argumentary of those who want to make of the okupación their housing policy, that yes, at the cost of the effort of the workers, pretending moreover to hide the absolute failure of the vice president of Social Affairs, who is leaving behind in this crisis to thousands of vulnerable families, installed in his hypocritical political of "The okupando" must be lived, while he enjoys his impressive mansion armored with the taxes of the most vulnerable. Lessons, none, because it was the People's Party that for the first time legislated to protect the debtors and vulnerable tenants that the Socialist Party had left unemployed and on the street. And if you have to keep insisting on these policies now, do it, let's do it, but don't manipulate it. To fight illegal occupation is not to go against those who cannot pay a home or rent, it is to protect the most humble families from the abuses of the mafia that require them to rent for houses that are not their own, to those who live in fear of being robbed of the effort of years by those who break down locks a business; it is to end the despair of those who cannot defend themselves from those who turn their blocks, their neighborhoods into hell, and use social conflict as a method of extortion to drive them out of their homes. You, from your armored mansions, luxury restaurants and magazine covers are every day farther away than average Spanish wants. People don't want to have a house taking it away from their neighbor, no, ladies and gentlemen. How dare you deny the problem to that family to which you have awarded public housing or are on a waiting list and cannot access it because the mafias of octopus have them octopused by hundreds? Or the worker who has been living for rent and has managed to buy a house, which has now been forgotten and distressed, has to pay rent, mortgage, light and water from two houses, while an okupa lives for free in his own? Or the neighbors who share a building with the narcopies and who live in fear in their neighbourhoods turned into hotbeds of crime? Therefore, one cannot distinguish the legal form of the owner, because the citizens do not care about who the house is, what affects them is that the Okupas from it are making life impossible for them. And look, the government's instructions don't serve to tackle this problem, it would almost be said that they are not to bother those organizations much of the octopus. We believe that there is a need for legislation that does not leave any room, and that is why we present the People's Party's Anti-Okupation Plan, to define octopus as a crime in itself, and that the authorities can evict at most within twelve hours after the complaint, harden the penalties by raising them from one to three years in prison, prohibit registration in the octopus housing and tackle the problem of neighbourhood coexistence, which accuses illegal octopus, allowing legal persons and communities of neighbours to request the eviction of those who commit crimes or alter coexistence. That is why we have reached an agreement, because the Spaniards need to know that the law is on their side, because the ocupation, gentlemen of the PSOE, is not a question of ideologies, it is a question of justice. Put yourselves on the side of the citizens and of the law and not always of those who fail them: the thugs, the Batsuns, now the Okupas. You return to the path of coexistence and respect for the Constitution and our institutions and do not contribute to the destruction of our rule of law, which your far-left partners aim to achieve. Because, look, millions of Spaniards, and of course with them the People's Party, will not allow it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u69	Mrs. Angulo, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u70	I'm done. We talk about octopus, and against the mafias of octopus and the parties or organizations that protect or promote them, zero tolerance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u72	The other day one spokesman here said that illegal octopus was not a big problem, because it affected only 8000 homes, 0.056% of Spanish homes. Another spokesman said that the problem was not that, but that it was the lack of affordable housing, and that was where action had to be taken. With this reasoning, one will tell us that deaths from gender-based violence, fifty-five in 2019, affect only 0.0002 per cent of women in Spain, and it is not a big problem. [[Rumors]] The other will tell us that action must be taken in society, that action must be taken in education and that action must be taken at the grassroots level. Of course, of course, we must act in the cases, but we must also prevent, we must protect the victims and we must prosecute the criminals and the crimes, whatever percentage they have. And these very people who are watching the arms business, they don't seem to see the business of the Okupapisos, of those organized mafias, that you have to be there to see them. There's no worse blinder than the one who doesn't want to see. What we do see is that Spain is being filled with negationisms and negationists of all kinds. I do not say what I say because of what I see on television, but because they are cases that I have experienced personally and, therefore, I know them firsthand.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u73	Mr. Mazón, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u74	I'm done. That is why I repeat that we must act firmly and, at the very least, we must prevent this phenomenon from going any further. We will therefore vote in favour of any initiative in this direction.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The speech was brilliant, Mr Bal, but I think it will be of little use to you, because for the government, apart from not being here today as every afternoon we have in plenary - you are not interested in what is being talked about - this issue does not exist. We saw this in last week's speeches, since both the Commission and the plenary itself talked about this and for the Government there is no such thing. Everything we see on TV, what we read in the newspapers and what we hear when we talk to people or on the radio is not real. They're people who are paid by security companies to buy security items. So, how are we gonna solve anything? If there's no problem... Go to the one who's been taken away from the house and who sleeps in the car and says: You're not sleeping in the car, you're sleeping in your house. Haven't you heard? Well, that's what they're going to say later, Podemos and the Socialist Party, that there's no problem. How are they going to solve a problem if it doesn't exist? They live in another world. Have they gotten so far away from the street? So far away from the street? So big is the bunker of the Moncloa and the offices that no longer know what's going on in the street? The people on the street with the octopus are outraged. They don't realize it. They think they're elites or I don't know what. That no, that is people - as the comrades who have preceded me in the use of the word have said - who have bought or rented apartments where they are living and who have forgotten them to do business with them. In other cases many municipalities are already giving way to their skills and are already doing that job, but you are protecting criminals. Return to the street again to see what is happening, because it is seen that the Government has completely blinded them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vehi Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u78	Thank you, President. Citizens bring us today a non-legislative proposal against housing otupation and tell us that they are concerned about vulnerable families and even the right to housing. Of course, they talk about the danger of families going on vacation and coming back and finding the octopus house. This is literally said in the text of the non-law proposition. Mr Bal, the first thing - and you know it perfectly well - is that there is a very clear difference between breaking and entering, and I would say that the vice president made it quite clear last week. The second thing is that the okupation is given on empty floors. We've been looking at data from the Generalitat. Of the 29 596 empty homes in Catalonia, do you know whose 27 558 are they? Investment funds and big owners. You legislate for the rich and, in this case, for the investment funds and the big owners, who are the same ones who speculate with housing and let the neighborhoods die. This isn't about narcopies or families. Don't fool people. This is going to legislate for the rich and for the investment funds. Do you want to know what families need? Doctors and housing. Do you know what the General Council of the Judiciary says? In 2019 there were 59,671 evictions in the Spanish state, 12,446 in Catalonia, and only in the first quarter of 2020, 3955 in the Catalan countries. Do you know what most of these evictions are? Rent - in fact, 68% - and I remember that you two weeks ago voted against the Charter of the Parliament of Catalonia. Do you want to talk about vulnerable families? Law against the mafia, guarantee the right to housing and law against big owners and investment funds, but do not deceive the citizenry, Mr Bal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I think we can already say that there are debates going from the dishes to the hemicycles and if in the dishes - in what we have seen at least during this summer - it seemed obvious that the maximum was that no truth would spoil you a good headline, seeing the splendour of lies they have said, here we could say that none of the real data or truths would spoil you any obsession - yes, despite the gestures, which also told me that I would continue to do them whenever I wanted -. I will not give more data than those I gave the other day, if you want I will reschedule some of those I gave, but I will point out one question, because it seems to me that it is the one that underlies, it is the one that is at the bottom, because today we are talking about ocupation, other days we are talking about immigration and other days we will talk about whether women denounce false mistreatment or not. We are talking about the imposition of an agenda of the extreme right, and the sad thing is that in this House those who until now contained themselves on the right have embraced the postulates of the extreme right. Because it's very easy, it's a very easy logical sequence, and they're going to see how it's done here too. The first is to find a phenomenon, a typology or even a problem, because there may be a problem around the ocupation that no one has denied, but which of course we do not dimension like you. And the second concatenation of the definition of that phenomenon or problem, of the indication of that phenomenon or problem, is that of magnifying it; magnifying it with a certain pretension, covering other realities that may be parallel to that but that are much more uncomfortable for the interests of the elites. The third succession of this logic, once the problem or phenomenon is defined and the magnification is pointed out to cover up other realities, is to inoculate all the fear that we can to the population with all the possible lies, with all the fake news possible, so that a certain state of panic is generated. And in the face of this state of panic, as the fourth succession and, therefore, the colophon of this sequence, what we do is generate more authoritarian laws, more regressive laws in an increasingly authoritarian and more controlling state of rights and freedoms. That is being accomplished at foot joints also on this issue, because we already have the phenomenon, the ocupation. I am no longer going to talk about what home invasion means with respect to and difference from usurpation, we did it in the previous debate, this is not Barrio Sesamo, anyone can see it in that debate. But already clarified that, clarified that for all the lords that the usurpation and the break-in of dwellings are two different things, we would then have to talk here about what legal mechanisms incorporate us as novelty for something that already has its own legal mechanisms, as has been pointed out previously, in the Civil Prosecution Act or in the Penal Code itself, either for one case - that of the usurpation - or for another - that of the break-in of dwellings. As they care little, we move on to the second phase, which is that of magnification or that of increasing the dimension of the phenomenon or the problem in order to give it greater sonority. I told you the other day, 87,000 families on octopus floors. There are millions of families in the Spanish State. It should be seen that these 87,000 families in many cases are vulnerable families. We must see surveys such as those of the Cerdà Institute - also indicated the other day - which point out that many are women with children in charge of them. Mr. Mazón, surely you also believe that here you must not just do education and pedagogy, but not kick them out of your house so that they can have a decent home to live with their sons and daughters. But I'll tell you more, about the houses that were blocked in 2019, they were of the banks 11,000 and there were around 17,000 evictions that took place at the same time, that is, 11,000 evictions and 17,000 evictions; but the problem is octopus, never evictions. Moreover, according to the General Council of the Judiciary - that I am not very fond of him but that surely we can take these data and they would not have to displease you -, 33 evictions a day by ocupation, and some do not even subdue themselves because they sometimes obey irregular contracts that have not been assessed by law but were under hand, against 160 evictions. I repeat, 160 evictions versus 33 cancellations. And the problem is okupation, it's not evictions! That is where you perfectly complete the second phase, that of magnifying the problem to cover others. And we move on to the third, which is inoculated fear to come up with more lies, and here they do not follow a logic different from what they followed with immigrants. We were told that the immigrants were taking the aid from us, but then the Ministry of the Interior, through the INE, tells us that 74.6% of the recipients of the aid are Spanish and 25.4 foreigners. However, it is the immigrants who are left with the help. We could also use it with abused women. We are told - said an ex-parliamentary of this House, Mr Toni Cantó - that most of the complaints of gender-based violence were false and yet we see that in the year 2020, according to data from the State Prosecutor's Office, the number of false complaints is zero, that is, 0.0000. But for you, however, this was a problem. I could go on with more data, but I want to finish the room. What you want is to propagate more authoritarian laws so that when more evictions continue to occur - because with the most evictions crisis there will be - it will be easier to get rid of; so that then there will be citizens, like a certain José Maria, a citizen who, probably, someone okupe his house, who does not tell us that he has more than one hundred thousand octopus dwellings because he is the manager of a fund called Cerberus and his surnames are Aznar Botella. We probably won't talk about those things like that. What has to be made clear, and I think that with this little more I can say, is that the problem is not the ocupation. This is not a paradise for octopus, this is, unfortunately, a paradise for speculation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u81	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Baldo, what do we do with the problem of the Okupas? asks a left-wing voter; he has always voted for the PC or the PSOE. I ask myself, "Have you set your house aside? No, no, Is there an octopus house in Riola - the town where we were -? No, no, So what are you worried about? The strategy of the right is down. They create the problem for us. They're coming to Congress to pass measures against octopus. They will use these measures to throw into the street those who cannot mainly pay their mortgage and rent. And yes, there is a problem of okupas in this country, that of the deputies who occupy their seats to defend the banks and the vulture funds and not the people so that they can have a decent housing. I occupy twenty seconds of the fifty-nine left over from the VOX spokesman. For mafias, those who leave a bank in ruin, cost us 22 billion to all Spaniards and come out of rositas on the street. Mafias! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u83	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u84	Thank you, President. I'm sorry if the data bother you, but without data we don't know exactly what we're discussing. Occupied housing, 0.056%, data from the Ministry of the Interior, and 80% owned by financial institutions, which in many cases leave them empty to speculate with them and this then creates problems of coexistence. Of course there is a problem, but the problems have a root, and that is not denying that they exist. In other words, there is a root, and that root is the growing difficulty for access to housing, which in Spain, despite being a constitutional right, remains on paper wet by the force of real estate oligarchies. If you were concerned about the right to housing, you would have brought us here, for example, a proposal such as the one that brings us the PAH: the construction of an ambitious public housing park, which also pushes prices down. It cannot be that Spain has 4% and France has 17%. Or if they were concerned, they would bring us a proposal, that of translation to Congress the deputies of the law approved in the Parliament of Catalonia to regulate the rents. Because it cannot be that in seven years rents have almost risen by 96 %, while salaries have not risen. It's unsustainable. Last week, next door, back here, on Olmo Street, in Lavapiés, they tried to unload a neighbor. His name was Paco. I had never stopped paying the rent, not a month, but they wanted to throw him out on the street when he was eighty-five years old. I say this will also be insecurity, right, or does that gentleman have legal certainty? They did not throw him out thanks to the tenants' union and the solidarity of the neighbors, but if they had thrown him out, what would that gentleman have done? Well, look for a roof and more if there are empty roofs. You know perfectly well what the root of the problem is, that there are many homes without people and many people without people, but you do not have the political honesty to bring a proposal that goes to the root of the problem because it would involve regulating the sacrosanct market. Instead, they bring us a little more fear rationing, to see if they divide the workers by fear and mistrust among them. They will count on the vote against More Country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. As every time I go up to this rostrum throughout this session, I will remind you of the democratic abnormality that supposes that the President of the Generalitat has been disqualified by a banner, a banner that asks for something that some of you provokes hives: the freedom of political prisoners. [[Applauds]] The phenomenon of octopus exists. It cannot be magnified, as some do, nor can it be obviated or minimized, as others do. Not all who shelter homes are mafias, not all who shelter homes are vulnerable people. Not all octopus dwellings are vulture-backed or all octopus dwellings are of humble families. The problem exists and must be solved. The problem is not new, it is not a problem that has appeared this week or last week or two weeks ago. In fact, my parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party, has two legislatures, through its deputy Lourdes Ciuro, proposed - and it ended up adopting - an amendment to the Civil Prosecution Act, which has certainly not been enough, which sought to protect small and medium-sized owners, not vulture funds. It should therefore be legislated. I agree almost one hundred percent with the argument of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party. This GNP, when there is a proposal for a law in place, simply seems to have the objective of putting the finger in the eye of the Socialist Group or the government in office. We'll have a bill. I have already told you that some of the aspects we do not share, but others do. When we have the bill, we will be proactive, because the problem exists and cannot be denied. It can't be magnified, but it can't be denied. With regard to this GNP, we are going to abstain. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u87	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u88	Good afternoon, everyone. It's a preconceived reflection. Look at these two gentlemen. [[Shows two photographs, one of Mr. De Rato and Figaredo and one of Mr. Torra i Pla]] One helped - in fact, he devised - a scam of 22 billion euros to the whole citizenry, the other put on a banner. Guess who's been convicted and who's been acquitted in the last 24 hours; guess what. Spanish justice is one against all in which Bankia always wins. Always with you, President Torra. [[Applauds]] VOX is Citizens at four in the morning. This is not the first time we have said this, but I think it is appropriate today to remember it because actually today Citizens bring us back not a PNL but neoliberal propaganda of security companies and alarms. It's thinner - a little thinner - than last week's, but it doesn't stop being propaganda; it's exactly the same. You boast - especially you, Mr Bal, who knows that I respect you - of being a serious, technocratic, data party, and you in this proposal propose nothing less than changing the Criminal Code, the Criminal Prosecution Act and the Citizens' Security Act under one pretext, without data - under one pretext - under one sentence: For the high growth of cases of ocupation. Chimpun! There you go! Like some of my predecessors, I remind you that there are 26 million homes in Spain -26-, only 0.056% are octopus or broken down - only -; the difference is important. By the way, Mr. Mazón, out of respect for you and your party, I will not enter into the miserable comparison you have made with the macho violence on this issue; I will not enter. [[Applauds]] So, useful, serious party, technocrat and data, rather little. You're just, maybe, the coolest part of the block on the right; I don't deny it. We do want to repeal - or at least change - the law on citizen security, the so-called law gags, but because it violates fundamental rights; simply because we are democrats, not to kick people out of the houses. There was a painting on the streets of Barcelona for a few years - Citizens have been doing politics in Catalonia for eleven years, we know them perfectly - that said: Citizens do not exist; it is the banks. Very graphic. 90% of the empty floors in Spain are of banks or vulture funds, which is almost the same. In 2019 there were between 200 and 250 evictions a day; white and bottled. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, I should like to formally ask Mr Mazón to withdraw the comparison he has made between the phenomenon of octopus and macho violence; I believe that it is absolutely unacceptable in a democratic society. Secondly, I think we should try to talk about the real problem. There is much talk of the optupation, but the main problem is the absolute failure of the private management of the real estate resulting from the crisis and the delivery to the vulture funds at a balance price. Do you want us to give you the name of some mob organizations that threaten people to throw you out on the street? Goldman Sachs, Blackstone, Cerberus. These are the main criminal organizations that threaten people to put them on the street with their paws, that have not even had the decorum to stop in their intentions during the state of alarm and threatened the tenants to untie them in an emergency situation like the one we are currently living in. These are the real criminal organizations that detract from the market essential goods to artificially alter the price of things, a crime between one and five years. They don't care about that. And I want to say to the lords of Citizens, of the PP and even of VOX, who are the ones who support the Government of the Community of Madrid: Are they going to comply with the judgment of the Supreme Court so that they return the 3000 social housing units handed over and sold to the vulture funds? Yes or no? Answer that question. [[Applauds]] Because there are 3,000 families in Madrid awaiting you to comply with a Supreme Court ruling. And those vulture funds are the ones that are threatening people to throw her out of their house, those who raise her rents more than a hundred percent in many cases to put her on the street. At the moment the main problem this country has is speculation; if not, how do you explain to me that a company like Idealist has become a unicorn? Why are they good at business? Ask even those of the CNMC, who investigate them precisely for price disruption. We are being imposed on an agenda, and I want to address all the democratic political groups in this House: we have a problem in complying with the general comments of the UN ESC Committee, we have a problem with the price control of rents, which should be falling by the drop in disposable income, and the monopolistic actions of vulture funds are keeping prices artificially, preventing access to the right to housing. That's what we need to talk about. The social organizations are addressing the parliamentary groups to ask us to make an intergroup for the implementation of DESC, so that we can be able to comply with the sentences of the UN DESC Committee that our State has not yet complied with. That's what we can talk about. Why don't we talk about it? Why don't we talk about the millions of empty homes that are now abandoned? Some people were telling us that this is a crime that comes from a long time ago and the truth is that criminal law is loose, ladies and gentlemen. This crime entered our Criminal Code in 1995 precisely to facilitate the take-off of the real estate bubble and the crime of usurpation to the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera cannot be found in our legal system. There is not even that much in franchising because it was a civil illicit, because there is one thing you should know that comes from Roman law, which is the res derlictae, the abandoned thing, which is tacit consent to the use of the thing if it is abandoned. The problem is the abandoned thing, the problem is that we have 1.7% of the housing in public rental park. That is the problem facing this country, which should be social housing if we are to put ourselves at the level of Europe at 17%. I ask the democratic political groups in this House to commit themselves to fulfilling our international human rights obligations and not to those who, in the hope of being able to build the right to housing, are infusing fear because what they want is to fill our neighbourhoods with mobsters and gorillas precisely to break the law and trample the right to housing of the social majority in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u91	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u92	Thank you, President. Sometimes we see that citizens have the feeling that here in Parliament we live in a microworld and, listening to the speeches that are made here, seeing that we have discussed the same subject three times in two weeks, seeing that we spend the day talking about the king, about the flag - even some of them speak here about unicorns, about elephants in the room, about gorillas, about vultures - I sincerely believe that they are right. [[Applauds]] I think we have different priorities than the people we are here. It is true that there are things that concern them and we have to focus on it. What are you worried about today? They are concerned about the pandemic and the economic crisis resulting from it. That's why I wonder what we're doing here debating the same thing for the third time in a week. We Socialists defend the right to property, of course, above all of those families, of those self-employed, of those workers who managed to have one or two houses with the savings of their lives, those who achieved savings because socialist governments allowed them to be the same as the rest, because the socialist governments during the democratic stage were the ones who allowed not only the rich to have housing. That's why we defend them and we're going to defend their property. But here we're talking about something else. I recognize that I do not have the same empathy for those funds that were made with many properties at a balance price as for those families who have their homes and who want to keep them. Look, here we have heard the People's Party say they defend the family, they defend the vulnerable, and I wonder: why did they rescue the banks and abandon the families during the previous economic crisis? [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, you can never give us lessons in equality, you can never give us lessons in how to ensure that people have the same rights. But the most curious of all is to hear the People's Party say that we have to comply with the law. The People's Party of Corruption tells us we have to comply with the law? Of course, if we fulfill it, and ask them to comply, to respect it, and to defend things when they are legal. Gentlemen of Citizens, PP and VOX, today they have gathered again for a simple reason and I must acknowledge their merit. They have come together and managed to create the perception that there is an octopus problem, that there is a problem in this country of home invasion. I'm not going to enter the figures anymore because they've already been put on the table. There is no problem in this country today that people who have their first or second home find an okupa in their home. It doesn't happen, don't say that, gentlemen of the People's Party, of VOX and of Citizens, because it doesn't happen. Do you know when it happened more than it did now? During the People's Party government. Do you know that the figures during the People's Party government in house invasion were higher than they are now? And I wonder: why didn't Citizens bring the initiative here then? Why didn't they defend the same thing they defend now? Because we do defend everyone, everyone, because we believe that it is essential for this country to continue to function. They have created an alarm - and the merit of it must be acknowledged - but the citizens must be calm. We will continue to work to ensure that citizens are assured that their home will not be octopused. The majority of uninhabited homes in this country, as has been said here, are large-scale, bank-based, and those are the ones that are usually overcrowded. In the Socialist Party do we defend that he is okupen? No, we do not advocate for him to be okupen, but we also believe that people should have the security and the certainty that this Government will continue to defend them. In this country Citizens, the PP and VOX should defend the right to housing with the same firmness with which they defend the measures against okupation here. Why can't it be seen that they have brought three initiatives followed to fight for citizens' right to housing? Why can't you be seen putting it on the same scale of values? Why can't they be seen to defend him the same way? [[Applauds]] We believe that there is a problem of perception among citizens about a problem that needs to be addressed, that needs to be addressed and that is why the Government has acted. The Government has acted and the Ministry of the Interior has drawn up a protocol that helps citizens to be sure that, if there is a break-in at some point, it will act and it will be done urgently and quickly. This Government is a serious Government; it is a Government that always defends legality, affects whoever affects it, and we will continue to work for it. We believe that the important thing is that from now on we are defending the 20 000 housing measure, to which the Spanish Government committed itself and which we are going to implement; that we continue to implement the measures that have been put in place at this time to protect the vulnerable, to have a social shield that will protect everyone. I believe that this is what we need to debate in this House, many more times, whenever they consider it appropriate; fewer debates for the spectacle and more debates for the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u93	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bal French, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u94	In the terms of the transaction we have signed with the People's Parliamentary Group and with VOX.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u95	All right. - the EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU Parliamentary Group on Minimum Inter-Professional Salary and Derogation of Labour Reforms. [[File number 162/000067]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u96	We move on to the next point, the non-law proposal of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group on the interprofessional minimum wage and repeal of labour reforms. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u97	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing this initiative, the repeal of labour reform, the lifting of the inter-professional minimum wage, the possibility of the autonomous communities having the capacity to raise the inter-professional minimum wage to the real needs of their population and to the cost of the real life of their population not on a whim and not to strain relations between anyone, not even to seek the seams to contradict anyone, nor to see the huge differences between us and other political forces on the right. We bring it by a very simple thing that for us in politics, for the women and men of Euskal Herria Bildu, is basic: to fulfill our word. We bring this non-law proposal here to fulfill the most sacred word we have, which is what we gave to our people, to the people of Euskal Herria and to their popular classes. And we gave it to him because we want to accompany his hundreds of thousands of steps in the streets for a decade in the form of eight general strikes with feet in institutions that help achieve his goals, because we do not forget that our country, which Euskal Herria, has experienced eight general strikes, three with the previous labor reform, that of 2010, five with the labor reform of the People's Party. Eight general strikes and dozens of conflicts in companies and sectors, such as the Bizkaia metal strike, such as the education strike, such as the health strike, all calling for the repeal of labour reform, all demanding more dignified living conditions for women workers. And we do so, to fulfill our word and we also do so to fulfill another word that we gave in this Chamber, that we were going to be in solidarity with the popular classes of the Spanish State, we were going to be in solidarity with those measures that also make life difficult for them, which also make them live on thresholds of dignity that are not the right ones. That is, in short, our memory and that is why we bring this initiative, because if we lose our memory we lose our dignity in rebellion; and we will never lose our dignity in rebellion by forgetting where we come from and, above all, by forgetting where we want to go. And we do it because all the people who went out on the streets for a decade and who will continue to go out as many times as they need, as they did on January 30, 2020, also to ask again for the repeal of the labor reform, tell us with shouts and with their vital experience things that are very clear, that the labor reform of the People's Party has generated a market - it will be that of Rato, that of "is the market, friend" - that the only thing that it does is to precariousize, that the only thing that it does is to chronize poverty and push more and more people into social exclusion in our society. Because cutting redundancies is only a bulwark for entrepreneurs; because the state of collective bargaining is only an ace in the way for entrepreneurs and never for trade unions, for workers' organisations; because ending ultraactivity is only one more measure of pressure, one more blackmail for employers not to address effective negotiations to improve the living conditions of workers; because the 2012 labour reform, which we are asking to repeal here today, leaves no content and makes measures inapplicable in defence of equality. There is a lot of talk in this House, and the European funds that are coming to us commit us and call on us all to comply with measures that generate a labour market that does not exclude women, because the 2012 labour reform is nothing more than leaving for tomorrow or for ever effective and real equality between women and men, because it chronicles them in poverty, because it chronicles them in the wage gap between women and men, because it chronicles them in labour discrimination and, ultimately, condemns them to make it impossible to reconcile work and family life. That's more precarious and that's the 2012 labor reform. It is curious, in these days when everything is the pandemic and in what is all news about the COVID, to hear doctors and nurses or doctors and nurses talk about having to leave this state because here they did not find resources or support to have decent salaries in order to carry out their work. And they tell you from places in Europe and they don't tell you from here, from where they call them to volunteer. Therefore, we believe that the first thing is to dignify working conditions and quality employment, that this is the first step - I would say that this is the inescapable step - that we would have to take in this House to start dealing with what is coming on us, once we have not yet exceeded what has to do with COVID in terms of health. Because, did we not all agree in this House that the people of essential services - doctors or doctors, nurses or nurses, health workers of all conditions, essential workers - were the heroes of society, were they the ones who had kept the thread of life of society? Why, then, do we condemn them to live under a labour market that condemns them to semi- or quasi-slavery conditions? Why do we look elsewhere when that happens? Probably because some obey interests that have nothing to do with the dignity of the working class and yes with the support of business profits at the expense of those who are always or at the expense of the backs of those who are always. As I say, that is our objective and, therefore, we have presented this initiative and we have amended ourselves, and we have done so in order to improve the drafting but, above all and fundamentally, to facilitate support for this initiative to other political formations, to political formations of which the majority who support the Government, who will surely have no problem in saying that the 2012 labour reform in its most damaging aspects must be repealed. Which of the progressive majority in this House disagrees with that statement? Who of the progressive majority in this House disagrees that the interprofessional minimum wage is equal to 60% of the average wage, according to the European Social Charter? Is there anyone you think you shouldn't do that? Because if there is someone, probably, you haven't even read the government agreement that signed the two political formations. Because what we are proposing is that 60% be raised in a legislature. Is there anyone in this parliamentary majority who is an alternative to that of the extreme right who believes that by setting a minimum ceiling for all that is 60% of the minimum wage, in this example of co-governance and plurinationality, communities cannot adapt that minimum wage to their own reality, raising it, if necessary, but never lowering it and, of course, not harming other autonomous communities? I do not suppose anyone, because I, within that progressive majority in this House, have heard no one say that, for example, minimum living income should be taken away from guaranteed income or guaranteed Navarra income. We're not talking about anything else, we're talking about that. Therefore, in the end, it is an exercise of responsibility that we have done for all those people who tell us to do something useful in politics, to agree, to defend their rights. And we have done it by making an effort, and we have stretched out a hand. It's in your decision if you take our hand or if you decide to escort it and corner it. Make one thing very clear: if they decide not to accept our hand, they are not rejecting the position of Euskal Herria Bildu, they are rejecting the position of millions of workers of the Spanish State who have gone out to the streets - also in the Spanish State as in Euskal Herria - to ask for the repeal of the labor reform and to ask for more dignified living conditions, to ask for decent and quality jobs and for no one to deceive them again by saying that of what he has created I do not know how many millions of jobs, without then saying that they are jobs of a day, of a few hours or of a week, where there were previously fixed and rights-based jobs. In short, as I said at first, it's a matter of memory, and if there's anything we're never going to give up, it's our memory. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments made by the palamental groups, Mr Barandiaran Benito intervenes, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Matute, do not look great. Accepting or rejecting their proposals does not mean either giving to the mess or accepting what millions or hundreds or thousands of people say; it is simply a matter of representativeness. This House and any parliamentary House serve that purpose, not to be a binder of unique wills. With regard to its GNP - that of Bildu, I am sorry - three different issues. The first is the minimum wage. The second, that the possibility of doing so is also by autonomous communities and, in the case of Euskadi, in Euskadi. And the third, labor reform. What is happening is that this whole approach, which in principle seems consistent - and it is not a matter for you, I think it is a matter of regulation - is suddenly tangled with a self-amendment which seems to confuse or completely alter the terms of that debate. I cannot say that I disagree with many of the things that you have said or those that have been formulated here - well, in some sense - both in the non-law proposal and in the self-amendments that you have made. But let me do a little analysis of it. Already several years ago, in 2016, two initiatives were also proposed. First, a GNP at the initiative of the Catalan Group, and then another proposal for a law, at the initiative of the Podemos Group, which also dealt with this issue. By the way, I want to remember at this time who was the advocate of the bill on behalf of Podemos, who was Aina Vidal, then deputy and now friend; I want to remind her and tell her that I expect her as soon as possible here in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] That debate revolved around the reference to whether the reference minimum wage should go, worth the redundancy, to 60% of the average wage, as recommended by the European Social Charter, and whether that constituted what Article 4.1 of the European Social Charter itself stated as the right to a sufficient remuneration to guarantee a decent life for the worker and his family. Well, time has passed, but also many things have passed because it happens that with article 27 of the statute in hand, as it is the prerogative of the government to fix the minimum wage, the Royal Decree 231/2020, of 4 February, updates another one of 21 December 2018, 1462/2018, and provides that the amount of the minimum wage for this year is 950 euros in fourteen paid or 1108 euros in twelve paid, that is, the same amount that was provided for in that non-law proposal and that it is, therefore, already materialized in a large part. To contribute to the promotion of sustained, sustainable and inclusive economic growth must, as envisaged in targets 1.2, 8.3 and 10.4 of Agenda 2030, direct the activity of the authorities precisely to achieve these paid posts in a dignified manner. But I believe that this must be done effectively, not with such rhetorical approaches. Concrete answers are given. Therefore, let me tell you that this kind of non-law proposition is not good for that reason. Because if we are already abounding in your proposal that it be the autonomous communities that do so... I'm going to forget the first proposal because I didn't like the other one either. Do you remember Article 12.2 of the Statute of Self-Government, which provides that the powers of the Basque Autonomous Community include the enforcement of labour legislation? Do you remember what some of us have been defending for decades, which is the Basque framework of labour relations? So how is it understood that they are urging the Government of Spain to introduce a minimum wage in Euskadi? Within the Basque field of labour relations? And how is it understood that they forget that the implementation of labour legislation referred to in Article 12.2 of the statute of autonomy is a prerogative which the Basque Government can also exercise under Article 27 of the statute? It is true that in the self-amendment they seem to correct that, but they do not. We believe that these mechanisms have not been adequate in their formulation. But then, to curl the curl, they end with the repeal of the labor reform. First of one, two, after one and at the end we don't know if we have also been copied a part of our text. But let us see, have you not come to an agreement with the Government of the State to carry out precisely that labour reform? So why are you bringing this text here and not consummating that agreement that you were supposed to have reached? Something is failing in this speech, Mr Matute, there is something in which you are really not contributing anything to this debate, you are simply confusing it. Let me repeat that I cannot disagree with many of the things you are saying, but this is not the form, let alone through a self-amendment. Actually, I'm not going to oppose her, but so, are they really working this way? We can't support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u100	Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Utrilla Cano has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u101	Thank you very much, President. Fermín, taxi driver; Maria, housewife; Manuel, waiter; Angel, engineer; Francisca, teacher; María Jesús, officer; Julián, mechanic; Agapito, hairdresser. Gentlemen of Bildu, do you know who these people are? They are workers of the more than eight hundred murders vilely by the terrorist band ETA, the same ones you consider heroes and call Gudaris when you get out of jail. [[one Member: Bravo!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the floor]] Now they come here to convince us that they will defend the rights of these workers, when until two days ago they were annihilated by their friends. They don't cheat on us. You have come here to blow up our democracy, to attack Spain, to do that policy of merchants who were so critical when they were in the Basque Parliament. How the story changed, Mr Matute, when you criticized the exchange of votes for transfers! Right? Now he changes his vows for the laundering that this social-communist government is giving them. Moreover, you want to take away the rights of the Spaniards, who are free and equal before the law, and manage them from that hypothetical republic that you have created that they call Euskal Herria, where, by the way, it is only you, the nationalists, who are responsible. Since VOX we won't allow it. [[Applauds]] You are the heirs of ETA, there is no doubt. The President told you clearly by giving you his condolences a few days ago, but it is that you have not condemned the violence yet, you continue to have to be condemned on your lists and among your elected positions for belonging to the armed gang, you continue to pay tribute to the murderers with the approval of this government, even some of you have been condemned for the apologia of terrorism. What happens to them is that they deeply hate Spain and dream of seeing it destroyed. On the other hand, do you come here to the seat of national sovereignty to dictate the future work of 47 million people? Look, since VOX we won't allow it. [[Applauds]] The initiative you are bringing here today to debate calls on the Government to transfer the capacity and powers to set the inter-professional minimum wage in the Basque Autonomous Community and in the Navarra Forum. Let us speak clearly: the articulation of this initiative not only breaks the principle of equality of the Spaniards, but it would also entail unnecessary, superfluous expenditure and even I would say that I obscene for the duplicity and bureaucracy that would entail. But it is also unconstitutional, it is that it violates articles 14, 139 and 149 of the Spanish Constitution, which state that all Spaniards are equal before the law, without discrimination of our origin, that we all have the same rights and obligations, regardless of where they were born or where they are living. Moreover, as stated in Royal Decree 231/2020, the very essence of the interprofessional minimum wage is to move progressively towards higher equality quotas, quite contrary to what you propose, which pose two categories of workers, one of first and the other of second. Since VOX we won't allow it. [[Applauds]] VOX will always defend the rights of workers, of those who get up in the morning and fight for Spain. But we must also take care of that business fabric, because it is essential for the workers. Companies are like that scaffolding in the works that sustain the operators. If you take it down, the workers will fall to the abyss of unemployment. But you don't know, because you see the image of the Spanish businessman as an empowered man smoking a cigar that exploits the workers. They don't know. More than two thirds of Spanish workers are hired by small businesses, by micro-enterprises, by small self-employed businesses, and they are really the first to get up, those who work all day to raise Spain. As long as you do not understand this, you will never be able to put a solution to this problem on the table. I'm done. The adoption of this initiative will bring more inequality, more unemployment and deepen the crisis already exacerbated by the disastrous management of this Government. It is ruinous and miserable to bring here the problems of the Spaniards to expose their sovereignistic and insolidary delusions. Do not use the workers to break Spain, gentlemen of Bildu. And if you really want to help the Spaniards, start by condemning the violence, for asking for forgiveness, by demanding that your colleagues who are in jail clarify the more than three hundred murders that still remain to be solved in Spain and, of course, comply with the Constitution, and we even invite you to swear the flag if you want. And if you don't do any of this, please get your dirty hands out of Spain. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u102	Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Matute, Euskal Herria is an entelequia. Foral Community of Navarre, Basque Autonomous Community. That said, I also thought that you had already agreed to this; but if we all saw it, if we had agreed to it. What's the matter, they don't do it? You guys don't do that, either? It is that you have fulfilled with you, because the repeal of labour reform gave you the same. What did you want? The label of a fully democratic party, like the others, and there it has fulfilled the Socialist Party, but with more! He's bleached them, but more! There remains May - not this May, the previous - when it was said: with Bildu, no; twenty times no. How many times do you want me to tell you, with Bildu, right? Sánchez, President of the Government. And at the same time, Vice President Calvo said: Bildu is a red line, the socialists are reliable. For they have done more in whitening!, with much more! And there is nothing more to see in this House and with everything that is happening. But that's right, have you condemned ETA? No, they didn't need it. You still get the prisoners when you get out of jail? Yeah, no problem at all. Do you sponsor the Osteguna? No problem at all. And what about the Gudari Eguna, where it is said that the Etraras are heroes? Well, that can be done without any problem. It's just that you've been bleached. They have whitened them so much that when there is a socialist who dares to say that you represent what you represent, turn him away, shut his mouth, tell him not to speak. It's just that we've come to that point. [[Applauds]] And this, of course, for the democratic system is a sadness, because you know that as long as you win - and you are winning, and I recognize it - freedom is losing. [[Applauds]] And that is happening today in Spain, that Spain is a less free country. And they have bought them up to the account, they buy them up to the language. We have seen these days that the head of state cannot go to Catalonia because it causes, which is the same thing that we were told in our land, that we could not go to some streets, to some villages and to some bars because we provoked. They've bought them all the way to the story! Thank you very much. [[One Member: Bravo!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX and Citizens' parliamentary groups, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u104	Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u105	Thank you, President. What I needed to hear in this Congress was a VOX deputy paraphrasing Jon Idigoras. I don't know what they're going to tell you in your party, whether you're going to get reprisals or not. Oh, my God! That's what I needed to hear. We are very much in favour of repealing labour reform. We can carry it in campaign, it was promised by this government agreement, then it was agreed to repeal it with Bildu and today Bildu brings it back as a PNL. It is labour reform that has been attempted to repeal more often in history. We wonder who you govern for, that is, what the Government of Progress label comes from if one thing that you have promised at least four times has not yet been done. In addition, you have today excluded the payment of social shield supplies. The truth is, the situation is complicated. There are thousands of ERTE that have been extended today. The layoffs go up, the unemployment rate is amazing. There are 41% youth unemployment and 15.8% in total terms. I understand that you are not going to repeal labour reform as much as the people of Podemos want, even if you do not tighten up within the Council of Ministers. Therefore, the only thing left for the people of the peoples of this State is to join in union. And to that we have come today to the rostrum, to say to the people who signify themselves in the fighting unions; that they also do not err in union, because the others are not calling for any general strike because we have the labor reform in force. That's a syllable. The Spanish State is a prison for people and the poor, and the named Government of Progress is not prepared to defend the rights of workers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u106	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u107	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we already know that no initiative from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group can be good for Spain, but this, apart from not being good, is particularly inopportune. You come here today, with the economy sinking - the worst forecasts of the eurozone have Spain -, with an unemployment that could reach 22% next year and with more than 600 000 workers still affected by the ERTE, to tell us about the labor reform that allows precisely this formula of the ERTE as a dam of containment to mass layoffs. Gentlemen of Bildu, I would say that you do not know what you are proposing if I did not know perfectly well that you know very well what you are proposing. We all in this House know what Bildu proposes, which is nothing other than the annihilation of the labour market, the same annihilation you want from Spain. Mr Matute, you have said that you come here to fulfil your responsibility and with this repeal what you intend to do is to generate more uncertainty than what is already in the labour market. I remind you that this is the worst crisis in our recent history. But since it makes us waste time once again talking about a job reform and since we have to talk about it, let's talk about it. In Citizens we have repeatedly raised from this rostrum a realistic and ambitious reform of our labour law, a profound reform that puts our labour market in the twenty-first century and allows Spain to stop being the red light of the developed countries in terms of employment. Undoubtedly, we must make progress in the field of work after decades of bipartisanship by dragging our feet with the reforms, but we must also do so with a calm debate, listening to experts, listening to trade unions, listening to employers and not so, recording a parliamentary initiative to pressure this government that you are holding in order to portray after that shameful episode of a role signed by the spokesman of the PSOE, Podemos and you after supporting the extension of a state of alarm. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of the labour market is a very serious matter to be played with the exchange of chromosomes. And I tell you that, with those who want to return to the labor model of Zapatero's five million unemployed, here has always been our proposal, the proposal of Citizens, to end the duality of labor, that all contracts be indefinite from the first day to end precariousness and improve social contributions that maintain decent pensions. Look, to accept in this time of pandemic and crisis that the Labour Law be repealed, as Bildu asks - I remind you that it is a Labour Law that has protected and served as a network to more than four million workers with the formula of the ERTE - it is like putting in the hands of Bildu the Ministry of the Interior. Because they do not propose the repeal of this reform or of this law from empirical evidence, they propose it from their guts, from their ideological trench, because they do not recognize a reality, and it is that the reforms of the PSOE and the PP have had a positive impact on job creation during the past crisis. And I do not say this, Mr Matute, is assured by the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Spain and other international bodies that I know you do not like but that you recognize it. By the way, speaking of international bodies, you will know that Brussels has warned that the recovery funds, that European manna of EUR 140 billion, come with conditions, and that that small letter expressly says that in order to have access to European funds, the achievements of previous labour reforms must be preserved. So, less bad that Brussels is for them just in case. But you don't just stay there, you also want to raise the interprofessional minimum wage in the Basque Country and in Navarre to 1200 euros. And I ask you, Mr. Matute, why not 2000 or 3500? And why only in the Basque Country and Navarre? What about the rest of the Spaniards? Ah, yes, you say that the autonomous communities can freely raise the interprofessional minimum wage, so I understand that the rich regions will have a much higher interprofessional minimum wage than the poor regions, thus creating new inequalities between the Spanish and between the territories. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, speaking of an interprofessional minimum wage, this also goes for you, because you say you are antagonistic to populist thoughts and the union you have given birth to demands exactly the same thing. Curious coincidences. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you see the partners who support you, partners who do not want the best for Spain or the Spanish. Think very well of the path you want to choose, that of annihilation or moderation, that of Frankenstein or that of Citizens. Thousands of jobs are at stake, our credibility and our recovery. Let us be responsible, because time will judge what we did for Spain. This is no time for ideologies, we have to work to be up to what the Spaniards deserve, because they pay us for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u108	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. We will vote in favour of Bildu's non-law proposal because we agree on its objectives. The labour reforms of 2010 and 2012 served - and that is very clear - to take away the rights of workers and to put the working and living conditions of large sections of the population at risk. Recovering rights, also purchasing power and improving wages, involves repealing labour reform and collective bargaining in its entirety. Also article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, which severely restricts the right to strike. All of them, it should be recalled, are measures contained in the investment agreement signed between BNG and PSOE, which the Government must comply with. In any case, they could move forward. In May, the BNG presented a GNP to urgently modify a specific and important aspect of labour reform, such as the recovery of administrative authorization in collective redundancies. The Government, despite having had sufficient time, did not do so. Well, today it would be a fundamental element of pressure against a company like Alcoa, which intends to fire more than five hundred workers and can do so on its own. Indeed, in the current situation, we once again call for a decisive position on the part of the Spanish Government, also from Galicia, for public intervention and the nationalisation of the aluminium plant, as the only way to ensure the continuity of activity and jobs. It's absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u110	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will vote in favour of GNP, as it is raised in the replacement amendment. We agree with all the points. With point one we are so in agreement that Compromís put it in his investiture agreement with the Socialist Party. In particular, point 8 states that the Government undertakes to ratify the European Social Charter, which may lead to an increase in the average inter-branch wage of 60%. With point two we agree that the autonomous communities can increase the wage set to adapt it to each economic reality, but, as a Valencian, I continue to demand an effort to bring the different economic realities of the different autonomous communities closer together. And, with regard to point three, it is not that Compromís agrees with the repeal of the labour reform, it is that we wonder why it is not already repealed. [[The lady]] In 2014, the aspiring president already announced that the first thing he would do if he came to the government would be to repeal labour reform. He has already arrived; in fact, two years ago he arrived. He has a partner who also agrees to repeal it. There is a parliamentary majority that agrees. What are you waiting for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Finally, I have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u113	Good afternoon. In his speech today, Mr Utrilla made a list. I'm also going to make one of them, so that it will appear in the Journal of Sessions of the Congress: Enric Prat de la Riba, Josep Puig i Cadafalch, Francesc Macià, Lluís Companies, Josep Irla, Josep Tarradellas, Jordi Pujol, Artur Mas, Carles Puigdemont and President Quim Torra; ten of the last twelve presidents of the Generalitat have been retaliated by the Spanish state and today this state has the sad medal of having disabled a president for having hung a banner on the balcony of the Generalitat. [[Applauds]] With regard to the proposal put to us, in general terms we agree - to raise the minimum wage, gradually reaching 60%, in accordance with the European Social Charter, and to seek mechanisms for the autonomous communities to strengthen and raise this minimum wage set by the State - but not with the last question. You put forward a proposal that you have then corrected. He was talking about the repeal of the labour reform and today in his explanatory statement we are told that, in essence, what they claim is this issue. Now, the wording is to repeal those more damaging aspects of the labour reform that the People's Party did. The issue of labour reform needs to be addressed from the point of view of rigour. To remove some more harmful aspects, yes, but first we have to determine what they are and how to determine them for sure that it is working with social dialogue and looking for the objective data of the eight years that have passed since this labor reform. There is a way to make a major change in labour legislation: reduce time, boost relief contracts, review ETOP cases and prioritise the social agreement above the company agreement. There are different elements that, of course, can improve the labour legislation that we have, but we understand that making the proclamation of an empty, rigid and content-free repeal of labour reform cannot be sustained. That is why we shall abstain from the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u114	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u115	Good afternoon to everyone. I think everybody's got it. Someone on the right has said that talking about the SMI is wasting time. I have also seen people on the right who have devoted themselves during the debate on the proposal for a law to talk about many things and not about the interprofessional minimum wage. I'll make a preview, too. You can put our presidents of the Generalitat in prison, you can shoot them, you can send them to exile, you can seize their property, but, as my friend and spokesman Gabriel Rufián would say, this is your defeat. You have nothing more to offer, absolutely nothing more to offer than repression; nothing more to offer than repression and this is our victory. The Spanish Democrats and Republicans, who are there, people of good faith, have disabled a president of the Generalitat for putting on a banner that poses: libertat political prisoners. Meanwhile, there is an heir party of the Francoists that in any democratic country would be illegalized. And in the meantime, there's a party that gets its mouth full talking about crime and crimes that, more than a political party, looks like a criminal organization and a gang of bad guys. Dream Catalonia free! Record to the very honorable President Quim Torra. [[Applauds]] Now yes, what didn't matter - in fact, I see that the popular benches are very empty - and that Citizens told the companion that it was to waste time talking about the SMI, it's not to waste time, friends; it's not to waste time. We will vote in favour of the rise of the SMI with regard to the European Social Charter because it is of justice and law; it cannot be otherwise. As a leftist, republican and fraternal party with other peoples and with all the working classes of this state and beyond, we are going to vote in favour and we are going to call for the repeal of labour reform, because I fought against it as a trade unionist and because we have fought against it also as a party faithful to the interests of the workers from this House; we do not vote for it. There is a percentage of poverty among people working and still being poor that is unacceptable in a democracy, cannot be allowed, and, instead, they say this is wasting time. Well, the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage is a useful and fair economic measure, and its implementation is urgent. It's a useful tool against inequality, and I'll tell you why. Increasing wages, in this case - otherwise they would stay below -, increases the bargaining power of workers, even from a capitalist logic increases the power of consumption - if you have more money you can consume more -, has a domino effect - you get high dumping -. Most of the House certainly agrees with this, but the truth is that we still have no acceptable results in terms of wage distribution. According to the directive and recommendations of the European Parliament and the European Committee of the Regions, for a minimum wage to be of useful reference it must reach 60% of what is laid down in the European Social Charter, and I will give you a very illustrative example and I think it is very clear. If I live in Portbou - Alt Empordà, Catalunya - my minimum wage is 1050; if I cross the border - nothing, 10 kilometers beyond - and I go to Colliure, the minimum wage is exactly 1521 euros. The companies beyond the Pyrenees do not sink; on the contrary, many people are going to work there, and that is what causes the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, creates an upward dumping - the truth is that I do not understand how you can go against it - and also de-territorializes the minimum wage, that is, every parliament or even every city - check what I say - can fix its minimum wage, which is also good. And they do so countries as unsuspecting as Canada and Japan - the latter, by the way, with a much smaller territory - where people can perfectly say: since here the standard of living is higher, it is higher. This creates an effect that never goes down, always goes up. It's that easy. But the same people who are going to oppose today and are going to vote against the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage are the same people who would have opposed the eight-hour working day a hundred years ago, or the same people who, when we voted in favour of the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, said it would be chaos for the economy. No, this is not chaos for the economy; chaos for the economy is other things and elsewhere. As I said before, like the Republican Left, we will vote in favour of Bildu's proposal, as it cannot be otherwise, and I hope that the Spanish Republican comrades and other peoples of the state will be consistent with what they said in the campaign, because today we have seen clearly that the right is united. Let us hope that the left will be united on labour issues, on civil rights issues and on all kinds of issues that unite us as progressives and democrats. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u117	Good evening; thank you, President. In this non-law proposal there are two essential aspects that our parliamentary group, Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo, share: the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage to 1200 euros and the proposal to recover the rights that were injured by the 2012 labor reform of the PP. It also proposes a transfer to the autonomous communities in terms of the possibility of modulating the minimum wage in each territory and, of course, we cannot agree on this. We understand that it is not legally feasible today, since article 149.1 of the Constitution confers on the State exclusive competence in labour law, without prejudice to its execution in organs of autonomous communities. A constitutional reform would be necessary for this transfer of powers. However, the Minister of Labour has expressed in this House, and in response to you on some occasion, her sensitivity to move forward within the framework of the proper regulation of the autonomous communities, and from the United Nations We are absolutely in this line of moving forward in this direction and in a federal approach, but by the proper regulatory channels. This discrepancy prevents us from supporting its GNP, which, on the other hand, has substantial elements with which we do agree. We are very aware of the labor reforms and the damage they have done to the working class in our country. In Spain, the mandate of the Austericide Troika was followed, reducing the basic rights of workers, collective bargaining and their level of protection. The answer was general strikes that we follow many of the ones we are here. Families were blamed for living beyond their means, public sector wages were cut, pensions were cut, education, social services and health were cut, with the results that we are suffering today. The response to the previous crisis was based primarily on transferring resources from the pockets of those who had less to the current accounts of the rich. There were tax amnesties and banks, highways, and taxes on the rich were rescued. As we denounced and recognized the IMF itself in 2013, austerity policies only created precariousness in our country and we became champions in the ranking of inequality in Europe. We, Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communo, are in politics, in the street and in institutions to defend and recover the stolen rights; with this coalition government, we are to protect the social majority with the ERTE, with the help of the autonomous, the minimum income vital, the minimum interprofessional wage or strengthening the public services. At this exceptional, serious time of pandemic and crisis, the objective of the Government's agreement to achieve an inter-professional minimum wage of 60% of the average wage, as required by the European Social Charter, to improve the living conditions of many people performing essential jobs, and we will do so as soon as possible, remains a priority for the coalition government. We are here to recover rights and to do so we need to change labour legislation. With regard to the repeal of labour reform, we agree with the spokesman of her group, Mrs Aizpurua, who in an interview these days expressed it in this way: We are talking about a terminological issue. To me, if I am abrogated by the harmful aspects for the workers, it serves me, because, obviously, one cannot change from night to morning a whole legal articulation. Let's get rid of that and call it whatever we want, I don't care. They were his words and we totally agreed. From the United We can, from the coalition government, have a commitment to the citizenry and we work to make that a reality as soon as possible, and we have already started by prohibiting, for example, the infamy of dismissal of workers for justified misconduct. And, as the Ministry of Labour has already announced, we are committed to overcoming the precarious job situation in our labour market in these years with the false self-employed, which generates insecurity and poverty, and new work situations, such as telework, are being regulated to respect the rights of workers. Just because of all this, there are those who devote a lot of effort and resources to ending this coalition government. From the right they question their legitimacy with their means of manipulation, with illegitimate actions and blockades of unconstitutional judicial bodies, facing even health recommendations to draw political revenue. However, here we are with the representativeness that votes and the population give us, and in this country and in this House we believe that there is a majority that agrees on the recovery of rights and the reduction of inequality. We cannot support his GNP, but we do reiterate our commitment to the recovery of labour and social rights, and to the will of understanding with the political forces that defend the same in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Romero Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is Bildu's intention with this non-legislative proposal that the inter-professional minimum wage established and in force for the whole of Spain should break and be different in the Basque Country and in Navarre, taking into account the socio-economic and productive reality of their territories, and also that it should be set at at least 1200 euros per 14 pay per month. Finally, it calls for the repeal of the 2010 labour reform - which Mr Matute has not appointed at all - and also of the 2012 labour reform. Mr Matute, the role of the interprofessional minimum wage is to guarantee minimum income, a minimum wage for the development of a labour benefit and it is up to the Government of the nation to fix it. This is established in the Spanish Constitution. It is the responsibility of the Government of the nation, after consulting with the most representative trade unions and business associations. It's set annually. In recent years the inter-branch minimum wage has risen by almost 28%. Already in 2017 the Government of the People's Party agreed with the social representatives a gradual increase in the interprofessional minimum wage. But it is necessary, it is always desirable - I repeat, it is necessary, it is always desirable - that these increases be linked to economic growth and job creation. If not, the workers - who are all - in the end we will suffer the consequences of not doing so. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not appropriate to territorialize the interprofessional minimum wage; I repeat, it is not appropriate to territorialize the interprofessional minimum wage. Where would the principle of solidarity remain with which the left is so filled with its mouth? Where would the principle of solidarity among these workers lie? Crossing the interprofessional minimum wage according to the socio-economic and productive reality of each territory is not solidarity. Within an autonomous community, in a region, in the Basque Country or in Andalusia, there are different realities. I will set the example of Andalusia; there are different provinces, for example, Huelva, Almeria, Cadiz, Malaga... , and all these provinces have a different socio-economic and productive reality, as it is not the same in the Basque Country and Andalusia. And also, within the province itself, the socio-economic and productive reality is not the same in one region as in another; it is not the same in one village as in another. Look, I'm going to give you the example of my people, Palos de la Frontera, who have a socio-economic and productive reality different from that of Paymogo, which is a people of Andévalo, or that Aroche, which is a people of the Sierra de Huelva; of the Sierra de Aracena and Picos de Aroche, to be more accurate. Therefore, should there be different minimum interprofessional wages in each of these regions, in each of these villages or in each of these provinces? It does not support what you propose in this non-legislative proposal. Mr Matute, you put in the same bag the 2010 labor reform and the 2012 labor reform and it should not be like that, it should not be like that. The 2010 labour reform was made by the Socialist Government and was more of a magnet of labour reform, it was more of a pseudo-work reform, which was also clumsy, ineffective and unable to stop the destruction of employment and much less to create employment. It has nothing to do with the 2012 labour reform, which the People's Government did; it was a different labour reform. Fatima Báñez, who was Minister of Employment at the time, made an employment reform for employment. As a result of this labor reform, first, the bleeding of unemployment was stopped in Zapatero's time and then began to create employment. Thanks to the 2012 labour reform, more than three million jobs were created, and I look! In this pandemic it has avoided mass unemployment, mass lay-offs and managed to maintain more than four million jobs with these ERTEs. Mr Baldoví, if they had abrogated the labour reform, these ERTEs would have disappeared and those four million would have been stopped by now. It incorporated telework into that labour reform, which is now so important and so presumed by many. Youth unemployment fell by 20 points, which is now 41 and rising.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u120	Mr. Romero, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u121	I'll finish quickly. And there was a significant reduction in the Gini coefficient of inequality. It allowed the record of women working in this country, more than nine million. And, in addition, it boosted collective bargaining, adapting it to the reality and needs of the company. This and many other things benefited all the workers of Spain and also those of the Basque Country. Specifically, since 2018 when you supported the government we have right now, indefinite recruitment in the Basque Country increased proportionally more than temporary recruitment, and that is to be thanked.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u122	Mr. Romero, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u123	I'm done, Madam President. We believe that this labor reform that you intend to do in the company of the Bolivian-style communist groups of Venezuela, Bolivia and Cuba would be detrimental to Spain. Thank you all very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u124	Thank you, Mr. Romero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u125	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, after listening to the spokesman for the People's Party about the world of Oz, I think I should point out a few things. It was their labor reform that led to fraud and allowed part-time days and contracts to become full-time real-time, converting two-hour contracts into eight-hour real-time contracts. It was their labour reform that allowed 10 million illegal overtime to be created each week and 55% of them not to be charged. It is their work patterns, which continue to persecute them because today they have also condemned justice, in this case in the field of work, because they have wanted to illegally cut the compensation of their own workers by qualifying as eventual people who are 33 and 34 years old working with you. [[applause]] I am surprised by his pride, that pride with which he speaks of a model that provoked five strikes, which was censored by the European Commission, which was criticized even by the Banco de España because he said that it only served to devalue wages. A model that is an absolute ruin for those who will never - never - accept a three-day or three-hour contract as a fair and reasonable job, for whom we will never consider the two and a half euros per room made as a fair and acceptable salary. Of course not and, by the way, I would also like to remind you that Law 35/2010, which allows ERTEs, was made by a socialist government. [[Applauds]] Focusing already on the GNP under debate today, the truth is that it gives us the opportunity to talk about the labor relations that have mutated, and Neruda said it: We, then, are no longer the same. Since January, the world of work has turned around like a sock, today we urgently legislate for distributors to have rights, we regulate teleworking and we confront the situation of women so that new forms of work do not suppose that we are buried between care and non-responsible uses of time. We need to update the framework rule governing the labour market and the social protection system, leaving behind - of course - the labour reform of the People's Party, ending with a macabre system that only last year generated 21 million temporary contracts, 12 million lasted less than six months and 6 million less than seven days. That Government was willing to do so, and that commitment also had a timetable and a road map. After the repeal in the past months of dismissal due to absenteeism, we continue to return to the sectoral agreements their priority vis-à-vis those of the enterprise. A regulatory plan for the coming months where ultra-activity will be recovered, subcontracting and its agreements will be limited and the mechanism for disengagement of collective agreements will be revised. And this is only the first stage, let us not forget that the Spaniards with their vows decided to dismantle this labor reform by attacking the heart of precariousness and temporality, not with a blast that left the official bulletin and the working framework blank and without rights the next day, but brick to brick, agreement on agreement, progress after advance. Nothing can and should be changed without social dialogue and political dialogue, we believe in it and it has proved that it has worked well in these months; indeed, this very morning we have seen its last fruits. This timetable of the Government has already marked this rise in the inter-professional minimum wage until it progressively reaches 60% of the average wage in Spain, as recommended by the European Social Charter, but I will only comment on two issues. Beyond the fact that wage fixing is the competence of the State under article 27 of the Workers' Statute, that its exceptionality is protected in article 35 and the equality of the Spaniards in 149 of the Spanish Constitution, we cannot agree that one worker from the Bayas polygon in Miranda de Ebro has less minimum wage than another under the same conditions in the Arasur polygon in Rivabellosa, when they only separate five kilometers even if they are two different communities, Euskadi and Castile and León. No, no, And we cannot accept this resolution by the proposing group, we do not share that selective way of fighting for workers' rights. What we do do is to bet strongly on a policy of wage growth, so did our president, Pedro Sánchez, with the biggest increase in democracy, 22% in 2019 reaching 950 euros this year. In conclusion and as a summary of all this, I will say that in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are very keen to create a new regulatory management of the world of work, where we value the essential care and services, which is where we have seen our well-being reside; to address the digital divide between small and large enterprises; because everything has turned around, from the first to the last of the articles of the Workers' Statute. We must think that this is no longer applicable to what we are living for or what is coming. So, ladies and gentlemen, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are waiting for you to build a new 21st-century Workers' Statute because, as Stefan Zweig said, we have already left yesterday's world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u127	Only the self-amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u128	All right. Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. The vote will take place on its terms with the incorporation of the self-amendment. We vote in five minutes. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you can only vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen, and I also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematic procedure cannot do so again from your seat. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, we voted first of all to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March on the protection of citizens' security. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Organic]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 112 plus 238 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 70 plus 133 telematics votes, 203; against, 42 plus 99 telematics votes, 141; abstentions, 6 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u130	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. - of the Joint Parliamentary Group, to enable TO ASSISTANCES TO BE ABLE TO ESTABLISH IBI BONIFICATIONS TO ENTERPRISES, SMEs, AUTONOMS, TRADE, PRIMARY SECTOR AND ENTERPRISES WHICH HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED, RESTRICTED AND AFFECTED BY THE IBI ACTIVITIES BY THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE COVID-19 HEALTH CRISIS. [[File number 122/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u131	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, in order to enable the municipalities to potentially establish IBI bonuses for companies, SMEs, self-employed persons, trade, primary sector and entrepreneurs who have been suspended, restricted and affected by the consequences of the COVID-19 health crisis. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 112 plus 238 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 42 plus 109 telematics votes, 151; against, 70 plus 106 telematics votes, 176; abstentions, 23 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-29-CD200929.u132	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was eight and fifteen minutes of the night.
