ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u1	The meeting was called to order. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is the fourth one we have celebrated since the declaration of the state of alarm, which takes place under the conditions already known to reduce the face-to-face assistance of Members of Parliament. As in each of the previous sessions, I would like to express, on behalf of Congress and all its members, our regret to the families of the deceased, including those who were elected by the General Courts as a defender of the people, Don Enrique Mújica. It unites us all to work to overcome this crisis and to minimize its effects; it also joins us in thanking those who dedicate their efforts and work to care for the sick, to reduce the number of contagions or to ensure the maintenance of the security and coverage of the needs of all those who form this country. Thanks also to those who assume the limitations imposed for health reasons, sometimes under very difficult conditions. It is these health limitations that prevent Congress from housing today the burning chapel of which it was its president between 1979 and 1982, Don Landelino Lavilla. Many of the best qualities of this House today and democracy owe them to him, to his knowledge, to his work and to his legacy. Joining in his memory is the most appropriate tribute for those who always sought the spaces of agreement between the different and recalled that it unites us all the will to live together and achieve higher rates of progress and well-being. For this reason, the Bureau of the House, on behalf of all its members, approved yesterday to offer to his family - to which we accompany in the feeling - the holding of a public act of recognition in Congress when possible. In memory of all of them, I ask you to keep a minute of silence. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u2	In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the Chamber the exclusion of item 18 of the agenda of this meeting, corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 12/2020 of 31 March, of urgent measures in the field of protection and assistance to victims of gender-based violence. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u3	We begin with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u4	Mr. Sanchez, I'm going to tell you what you always forget in your weekly 'president' allo' about the coronavirus. Spain is already the country with the most deaths per capita in the world, 18,000; and we are the country with the most infected health care workers in the world because of a disastrous policy of purchasing health supplies. We are also, according to the IMF, the second euro economy that is going to be the worst in the economic crisis. Since today there are already 3.5 million workers subject to ERTE who wait for their benefit without arriving, and there are 47 million Spaniards who today serve a month of confinement, with no more hope for their part than another fifteen days of confinement, because they are unable to make a massive test plan to normalize the situation. [[pointing to the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón]] For once be humble, wear the black tie you used to honor the French victims of the Bataclan and tell us how you intend to manage this crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u5	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Believe me if I heartily tell you that the dead, the dead compatriots as a result of the COVID-19 feel like their own and will have their deserved recognition once it is the total victory over the COVID-19. And with the same frankness I say to you, Mr Casado, that the containment measures since the state of alarm are working because we collected a reality that was 35% of daily infections and today it is 3%, which is the last data we have known today, also as a result of the fact that we are increasing the number of tests, so what I am telling you is that we are taking tough measures that are having effectiveness and that are protecting, saving lives, and are benefiting all Spanish citizens live where they live, because they are measures that are being applied homogeneously throughout the Spanish territory. So what I want to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, is that they are measures endorsed by science and, secondly, that this effort is recognized by such important international bodies as the World Health Organization. From there, Your Honor, we want the total victory over the COVID-19, and we want to do it with unity: with the unity of politics with science, with the unity of the Government of Spain with the autonomous communities and the municipalities, with the unity of the Government of Spain with the social actors in that social dialogue that we have opened, and I would also like the unity of the whole of the forces of this House, above all to put in place - from my heart I say this - a plan of social and economic reconstruction which, in view of the figures that the International Monetary Fund has thrown out, is essential not only in our country but also in the whole of the euro area. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u7	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u8	Useless, unworthy, irresponsible, incompetent, indecent, disloyal: these are the cheerleaders who dedicated me to supporting the state of alarm when their partners left him behind, and four are the minutes he has dedicated to us in twenty-four days. Is this the political ups and downs? Is this the spirit of the heart covenant that he offers us? Is this the loyalty and unity that imposes on us with one hand while the other releases the classic doberman of the Socialist Party? Mr Sánchez, the agreements are based on trust and no one trusts you anymore. He's fooled everyone so much that he doesn't even believe in his classmates anymore. He said in his weekly sermon that he is the highest representative of the Spaniards, but that is not true. You are not the king however much you invoke some round of consultations or do not defend Don Felipe from the insults of Vice President Iglesias. The representation of national sovereignty is in Parliament, therefore, if you want to agree something - which I doubt - let us do with light and stenographers: on social policy, in the Commission of Autonomous Communities; on the health emergency, in the Conference of Presidents; on the Toledo Pact, in the Commission and in the paper created, from which its partners rose; on the future of young people, in the subcommittee of the educational pact, from which you rose. On the economic emergency plan, bring decrees, because we have shown that when they are sensible we can support them, but do not sell us their theater of guiñoles, of which you do not know neither the script nor the characters; just know that by the time the curtain falls we have to be all responsible for their mistakes. You only care about power and we only care about the Spanish. That's the real distance we have between you and me, the one that separates us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, as a result of the confinement, I am convinced that the Spaniards will soon recover normality, something we have called from the government the new normality, because nothing will be the same as a result of the COVID until we find the vaccine. And, I hope, Your Honor, that this new normality was also accompanied by a new way of doing politics really - indeed, Your Honor - because it is true that the magnitude of the economic and social crisis that we are going to encounter as a result of the economic slowdown and also as a result of the confinement for the eruption of this global pandemic will need everyone's help. May that new way of doing politics, Your Honor, bring with it the general interest rather than the partisan interest. And, in that regard, I appeal to your political strength and to the House as a whole for this agreement for social and economic reconstruction. I hope that we will find ourselves in the next few days, Your Honor, in that much-needed agreement for our country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW WILL THE GOVERNMENT THAT THIS CRISIS DOES NOT PAY CITY AS IN 2008? [[File number 180/000071]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u11	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus, from the EH Bildu Parliamentary Group. Mrs AIZPURUA ARZALLUS: Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, despite the warnings of the scientific community, in spite of the WHO recommendations for prudence, the interests of employers and large companies have been imposed and non-essential activity has been launched without the level of security sufficient for this. It happened in the 2008 crisis, protecting the interests of a few over the general interests. That is why my question is: How will the government ensure that this crisis is not paid for by citizens, as it happened in 2008? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u12	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honour, I totally disagree with your approach in your question; on the contrary, I believe that it has been the result of the dialogue between the social partners and employers and trade unions, which we have co-responsibilityed, and we have all co-responsibilityed on the return to economic activity and always, not only under safety criteria, but according to scientific recommendations and according to the recommendations of labour flexibility from the impulse to telework, which are so necessary in these days of pandemic. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what I can tell you is that what the Spanish Government has done since the decree of the state of alarm has been to put in place a lot of measures to weave this network not only of support to families, not only of support to the workers, but also to the productive fabric, to maintain them, and an income policy that is currently benefiting a whole, I think I recall, of 25% of the working population; that is, an unprecedented enormous effort that the Spanish Government is making as a result of the outbreak of the pandemic and its economic and social consequences. The maximum that I presented when I decreed the state of alarm personally at the Council of Ministers on 14 March was that the economic and social consequences of the pandemic would not mean leaving anyone behind, and that is, Your Honor, what this government is doing humbly in all the Councils of Ministers: trying to give a social approach and not leaving anyone behind in this enormous crisis that is unfortunately affecting the whole planet. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u14	Mrs. Aizpurua Arzallus.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u15	Thank you. I would now like to remind you that it is not about the economy or health - which has prevailed at the moment in this debate - that it is not about the economy or health or health versus the economy. It is a healthy economy, it is a question of preserving the economy, but not at the expense of the health of workers; it is a question of not giving priority, as economic powers do, to their economy, to theirs, to theirs, to our health, because people's lives are worth more than the profit accounts of large companies. I know that economic failure is inevitable, but it will be less how much better and how much sooner the pandemic is controlled. There is one thing that you will not be able to defeat me, Mr Sánchez, and it is that it is impossible now to know the final consequence of returning to non-essential activity, but it is obvious that, even in the best possible scenario, with that decision, what we will have is a slower exit from the epidemic, which will have negative consequences for the economy and society. At the first plenary session that was held around COVID-19, we called for the closure of non-essential sectors; we were told that no and two days later it had to be decreed; we asked again a week ago and we were also told that no and, now, frankly, I say that I hope to be wrong; that I hope that in two weeks we will not have to be voting again more drastic measures for a burst of cases. I know that I cannot ensure, I know that neither can you, no one can ensure that this is not going to happen, but what I am asking you to do is to take the necessary measures today to prevent this from happening, to ensure that companies are under strict control to ensure that they comply with all health and safety measures for all workers. Finally, I make a plea, a final comment. It is never necessary to put the emergencies of a few above what is important to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u17	Thank you, Madam President. I share with you that the economy must not effectively be countered to health. That has been one of the approaches taken by the Government of Spain from the outset. In fact, the result of the effort of the confinement of the state of alarm since last March 14th we are seeing it today. We were at 35% and today we are at 3%, with a slight rebound. That has much to do with the state of alarm, with the strict measures of confinement that we are applying as a society and, thirdly, with an effort being made by the whole of the institutions to increase the number of tests, which is rising. Spain is one of the countries, internationally recognized, that the most number of daily tests is doing to the population, more than twenty thousand, and we are increasing precisely that number of tests, with which I believe that there is nothing to counter, nor is it the approach of the Government of Spain, health with economy. On the contrary, both things go hand in hand, and that is the approach we are taking. Your Honor, you and I can disagree politically. What I can assure you is that all the measures taken by the Government of Spain are the result of the advice of the scientific committee that advises and recommends to the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. VEHI CANTENYS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT OPINION DOES YOU DESERVE THAT GREAT SPANISH ENTERPRISES HAVE LEGAL BENEFITS INCREASING THE PARO AND DUTY OF PEOPLE'S CLASSES AND THE PUBLIC SECTOR? [[File number 180/000078]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u19	Question by Mrs Mireia Vehí Cantenys, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u20	Thank you, President. Mr President, Amazon has made historical peaks on the Wall Street Stock Exchange, Glovo has multiplied the distributions in supermarkets by four times, Blackstone has invested more than ever in assets in Europe and BlackRock, another investment fund, stands as the political commissioner of anti-crisis measures in Europe. What steps will your Government take in relation to big companies and big capitals to share wealth?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u21	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the government agreement we signed with the two formations supporting the coalition government made it very clear. He made it clear that there is indeed a social injustice that we need to resolve at national and European level. The Spanish Government is advocating such tax harmonisation at European level to end tax havens and, secondly, has proposed in its government programme and in the investment debate a review of corporate tax taxation precisely so that large corporations pay more. Moreover, the Government of Spain - it has been criticized by the opposition precisely for this - has been one of the first governments in the world that has raised a digital rate to the great digital corporations of the world. Thus, from the point of view of taxation, fiscal justice, in order to achieve this social justice, the Government of Spain is located where it is expected, in progressive parameters of struggle for social justice and, consequently, to strengthen the fiscal justice character that our tax system needs here in Spain and throughout Europe. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u23	Mrs Vehi Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u24	Thank you, President. I am glad to hear this tone, but in concrete terms we do not yet have any taxes on the banks or the big capitals or the big fortunes. Nor have you considered turning into public some companies of collective interest, for example Endesa, which also has profits of billions of euros. And you keep talking about war, while sending thousands of people to work, who - those who still have work - will do so without the necessary security measures. You often say that victory is going back to normal. What normality, Mr. Sanchez? Is the normality of your Government that of precariousness, misery and inequality, the same as Mr Zapatero in 2008, which after left-wing speeches then stood beside the banks and the powerful? Is its normality to manage the Spanish State as the board of directors of a company? You have long renounced sovereignty. Not us. We want to recover all sovereignty, we want the right to self-determination to recover all rights: bread, work, health, education, culture... I have finished, and I say this to you clearly: we do not forget that we have a political conflict, nor will we forgive them for the management they are doing of this crisis.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u25	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, you mix different things that have nothing to do with each other from the point of view of your question. I think it is important to underline and reinforce, at least with numbers, the arguments I am giving you. On the contrary, the Spanish Government has been among the first. I insist, not only in Spain we have discussed it in this Congress, but also in the rest of the world a digital rate has been proposed, the approval of the financial transaction tax. Mr President, we can be blamed for a lot of things, but we cannot be blamed for not being at the forefront of that taxation that we need in Europe and that we also need in the world. During this month of validity of the alarm decree we have done many things in favour of families or workers and self-employed people. There are already almost one million self-employed persons who have already applied for the cessation benefit. There are 3 889 000 women workers who are benefiting, for example, from ERTs. As far as companies are concerned - we have said this - we are already going through the second line of EUR 20 billion, with a ceiling of EUR 100 billion that we expect to ensure the liquidity and, consequently, the subsistence of the productive fabric in our country. As far as families are concerned, I would like to remind you that 1 290 000 consumers will benefit from the guarantee of energy supply to vulnerable consumers. And also, from the point of view of the institutions, we are injecting into the autonomous communities, for example with advances on account, greater resources at a time when they also have tension in liquidity. In short... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND SECOND AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WHAT RESPONSIBILITIES DOES THE SECOND SECOND SECOND Vice-President TAKE ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THIS TERRIBLE CRISIS THAT COSTED HIS LIFE TO THOUSANDS OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/000080]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u28	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u29	Thank you, President. Mr. Churches, you have gone from laughing at the coronavirus to blaming the People's Party for everything. They said it was a flu less aggressive than that of every year or that the coronavirus was absolutely controlled in Spain. I will tell you something: you are Vice-President of the Government of Spain and you are responsible for everything that is happening. Didn't you suspect when Italy closed its borders? In what head can it be that the world's major multinationals cancelled the Mobile World Congress at the same time as you pushed people to manifest on 8-M? With you in the government, Spain has the highest death rate in the world and, Your Honor, they are not peaks or curves; they are Spanish, with names and surnames, who have died in solitude and without the affection of their own. In this whole scenario, what responsibility will the vice president assume? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u30	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr García Eggea, all responsibility, because in the Council of Ministers there is a collegiate responsibility and, in the modest responsibility that I have, coordinating - as the President of the Government has given me - social policies, and trying to prevent this crisis from leaving without protecting the citizens of our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u32	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u33	Thank you, President. Mr. Iglesias, let us reflect together on why you will be remembered as Vice President of Social Rights. For giving the police and the Civil Guard masks, for getting PPE for health professionals, or for being able to protect the elderly for whom you are responsible? You will be reminded by putting ideology above the health of the Spaniards, because it lacks foresight and there is plenty of propaganda. They have acted with irresponsibility and negligence. It was irresponsible of Minister Illa to say that the country had sufficient resources; it was irresponsible of his friend, Nadia Calviño, when he wished for an unsignificant impact on the economy; and it was irresponsible of the Minister of Consumer Affairs, who, with 16,000 dead on the table last Friday, asked: what film do we see today? I would recommend one in which a communist government commands people to fight unprotected against an invisible enemy, where based on lies covers their incompetence and causes thousands of deaths without anyone being able to say goodbye to them. It's not a movie or Chernobyl; it's today's Spain, the one you're ruling. I saw him moved by Excalibur, the Ebola dog, but not a single gesture of mourning for more than 18,000 people killed in Spain. Your Honor, no press conference will make up for the tremendous pain that Spain is suffering today. And, by the way, so that they do not take everything, I inform you, Mr Iglesias and Mr Sánchez, that the applause of eight o'clock is not precisely for you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u34	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Let me invite you to reflect on the role your party is playing as the main opposition party in Spain. Think about the feeling that some citizens have when they see political opposition in other countries. The opposition must criticise - that is sensible - but do you not think that the people who voted for you, who voted for your party, would not want a slightly more constructive attitude on your part? Mr. García Eggea, I am not going to ask you to think like me, but I am going to reach out to you and ask you to assume a minimum common denominator, which should have nothing to do with your ideology or mine, which is the Spanish Constitution. The Spanish Constitution has social protection mechanisms and has mechanisms to defend the general interest that should be the lowest common denominator that would unite us, in exceptional circumstances, with the Government and the opposition, to face a pandemic that no government in the world was able to foresee. Look, when you try to persecute VOX to see who says the greatest barbarity, to see who accuses the Government of Spain of more communism, I think you are disappointing a fundamental part of this citizenship that wants to see us united. And we again reach out to him for reconstruction agreements in this country that need the help of the whole world, the opposition forces, the trade unions, the companies. I make this recommendation from the heart: stop competing with VOX to see who says the most barbarity; return you to the Spanish Constitution and patriotism, Mr García Aegean. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: WILL YOU DESIST FROM ENJOYING THE VENEZOLANO CHAVIST MODEL IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u36	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u37	Mr Vice-President, are you going to give up imposing on Spain the Venezuelan Chavista model?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u38	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I must remind you that we are in Parliament. This is the seat of popular sovereignty and I just have to ask for a little seriousness, respect for this House and respect for many Spanish citizens who are wearing a white uniform and who are playing with life and health to protect us all. You see, as I told your colleague in the People's Party, it is up to me to coordinate the social policy of the Government. My job is to get out of this crisis without leaving anyone behind, as happened in 2008. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u40	Mrs. Olona Choclán.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our democracy is bled out and it is not just because of the coronavirus, but because this Social Communist Government is taking advantage of the tragedy that plagues our nation to impose its totalitarian regime and its communist regime. Mr Vice-President, your model is Venezuela and you are following step by step the path that that Democrat has already taken - in his words - Mr Hugo Chávez, to turn Venezuela into a pure misery, to limit and take away all rights and freedoms from our Venezuelan brothers. First of all, with the destruction of our nation, which is going to take advantage of a natural catastrophe; in the case of Venezuela it was in 1999 with the tragedy of Vargas, as you well know, which buried more than 50,000 souls in Venezuela, and in this case the coronavirus. Secondly, with the control of the intelligence services; you have already succeeded, Mr. Iglesias, you have already been armored in the Commission that controls the National Intelligence Centre. Thirdly, with the control of the media; they have prostituted Spanish Television, they have watered with millions of euros the private media affected by the regime and what they do is to persecute free journalists who rise with a critical voice. Fourthly, with the control of opinion; monitoring social networks, identifying critical opinion flows and censoring the dissident. How? Through the ministry of truth that they have created in a parastatal way and in which companies prominent as Newtral and Cursed, that is, Mr Ferreras, Mrs Ana Pastor, Mr Roures, are the Gestapo that monitors the official truth. Finally, by eliminating the dissident, in communist terminology, Mr. Iglesias, the enemy; in the case of the political adversary they cannot physically eliminate him, but I have no doubt that they will try, very singularly, to illegalize our political formation. I say to you, Mr Vice-President, that you are not that lamb that you are trying to appear before this House today, but that exalted sectarian who cries out of 'homeland or death' to the troops to impose a totalitarian regime. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u42	Thank you. I give the floor to the second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I believe that you are discredited by the speech you have just made and I believe that this House and our society do not deserve this government to devote half a second to this. In difficult circumstances such as those we are living in, you devote your time to asking and controlling the Government to talk about Venezuela and the Sixth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMING THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CREATE THE SOCIAL MEASURES THAT HAVE ADOPTED DURING THE STATE OF ALARMA Do they effectively protect the social rights of the most vulnerable sectors? [[File number 180/000075]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u44	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Iglesias. Mr Vice-President, even at the risk of looking like a social communist, do you believe that the government is implementing all appropriate and possible measures to try to protect the most vulnerable population during this state of alarm? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u46	I give the floor to the second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, I believe that you and I entered this Congress at once four years ago - who would say it has only been four years! - and, although we were not part of this House twelve years ago, we both remember what represented the 2008 crisis and how that crisis was faced. In 2008, banks were rescued, and this Government has made a historic mobilization of resources to rescue people. After the 2008 crisis, there were supply cuts, and this Government has banned supply cuts. After the 2008 crisis there were evictions, without housing alternatives, and this Government has banned evictions, approved rent subsidies and approved mortgage moratoriums. After the 2008 crisis you and I think we learned how not to get out of a crisis. If you ask me if what the Government of Spain has done is enough, you humbly replied that it is probably not and that more needs to be done. If you tell me: you will have to do more in this country to protect families, I tell you that surely you do and that we can certainly do better. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u48	Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u49	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Vice President. The truth is, I very much agree with you. We could talk here today about yesterday, we could talk about the ban on layoffs that was not such, we could talk about the moratorium on self-employed people that came late, we could even talk about the minimum living income, which will surely also be late. But I'm interested, I think we're all interested, to talk here about the present, about today. And today in this country, unfortunately, people can go on a crowded subway to work, but they can't bury their elders; that's what's going on. As you know, it seems to us, our parliamentary group, a huge irresponsibility to open our hands to activity again, but it is what we have and what we have, so today I ask you to protect families, all families, whatever they are, who are being forced to work and who have nowhere to leave or with whom to leave their children. We ask them to protect them with a paid benefit, which they do not have to choose between contagion or abandonment. We think it is important to protect these people and, above all, we really want to believe that your Government, that this Government is not letting itself be pressured more by the employer than by the virus; but, above all, we want to believe that your parliamentary group and yourself, if it is happening, are not silent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u50	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rufián, I have to say that I agree with most of the elements that you point out. It is true that this Government has built an unprecedented social shield in the history of our country, but it is no less true that there are sections of the population that remain unprotected. I'm very lucky and I have a garden in my house to take my children out. That is precisely why I am aware that millions of families in this country are having children on floors of forty, fifty, sixty meters. He assured him that the Government was working. I am aware that social aid does not reach the whole world and that 50% of the Spanish population cannot save, that there are sectors of the informal economy and precariousness for which the aid is not coming. And I assure you that this Government is working to ensure that as soon as possible this social shield also reaches those who have it most difficult. I am aware that everyone cannot go to work protected in their car and that they have to go to public transport, and we continue to work. You and I, Mr. Rufián, share republican values, the values of defense of the common. Therefore, from these values I ask your political formation to participate in the reconstruction agreements that we are going to propose precisely to defend... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA SANDRA MONEO DEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHEN THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION THINKS RENEW PRESENCE CLASSES? [[File number 180/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u53	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training of Mrs Sandra Moneo Díez of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, Spanish families are experiencing terrible times; to the dramatic health situation - many of them have not even been able to say goodbye to their loved ones - the economic situation must be added. The International Monetary Fund, without going any further, foresees that the crisis is particularly in Spain for the very management that is being made of the coronavirus. Health crisis, economic crisis: our country cannot afford to face a new crisis, the educational crisis. You, Minister, know that giving up the course face-to-face or decisively betting on the reopening of schools is not an innocuous decision, it has its effects. That is why I ask you, we ask you from the People's Group, with the maximum health guarantees, always with the maximum health guarantees, when does the Ministry of Education intend to resume face-to-face classes? Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u55	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Moneo, thank you for your question. As you well know, they are not circumstances that depend on Education, they are circumstances that depend on the Ministry of Health. It is health standards that have forced us to replace face-to-face educational activity with remote activity. When Health, which is the highest authority in this matter, informs us that conditions exist, opens up the conditions for us to be able to reopen schools, we will gladly do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u57	I give the floor to Mrs Moneo Diez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, you are part of this government, you talk to the Minister of Health, you have to have a timetable and you can press for the necessary health measures to be taken so that our students return to the classroom as soon as possible, because that idyllic world where from night to morning we have put more than eight million students in front of a computer and we have also intended that that computer replaces the personal relationship with the teacher does not exist, first because what does exist is a digital gap - you have quantified it by 12%, you will have to explain where it comes from - but it is also that it assumes that in all households there are two, three or four electronic devices, so that parents can telework and each of the children has a computer at their disposal. That, Minister, is not knowing the reality. In addition, there is a socio-cultural gap that affects precisely those pupils who have the most difficulties, those who can fatten the numbers of early educational dropouts. It is said by Unesco, Minister: the prolonged closure of schools increases exponentially the risk of aggravating the difficulties. You can't afford that luxury, Minister. So when you get out of here and meet with the counselors you have to lead, you have to put in place a specific support plan, you have to quantify it, you have to provide it economically and, above all, you have to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Moneo. I give the floor to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u60	Yes, Mrs Moneo, the deduction - the corollary of your intervention - is irresponsibility. Do you consider that the conditioning of health measures in this country, the pressure on the Minister of Health to open schools can lead us to a solution? You're completely wrong. What is it you're proposing? I'm going to formulate all the work we're taking on from Education that you know perfectly well. Indeed, we are concerned about the digital divide. But it's not a digital divide. I wish there was a digital divide; the digital divide is solved with economic resources. It's a social divide. What really masks the digital divide is the social divide, and that is not so easy to solve, it is not solved in twenty-four hours. But, Your Honor, we are working in coordination with all the educational administrations, also with those regented by your own party: we have coordinatedly adapted the teaching schedule; we have coordinatedly made vocational training and training more flexible in workplaces; we have coordinatedly resolved the public offer of employment; coordinatedly, because we have met five times - this will be the fifth, the sectoral conference that I will actually keep within an hour - and, of course, I can assure you that we have spoken a lot with the counsellors and counsellors of the autonomous communities, and we are online, and we are going to foster a great agreement that will provide certainty to families at a time of uncertainty and that will allow us to take responsibility and go through the end of the 2019-2020 course, supporting us also in 2020-2021, to resolve, being promotion the general rule and repetition the exception, which will have nothing to do with the causes of the coronavirus. The general rule will be... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED CAYETANA ALVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THAT IS PROVIDED FOR TRUE AND COMPLETE INFORMATION IN THE CRISIS OF COVID-19? [[File number 180/000081]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u62	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mrs Cayetana Álvarez of Toledo Peralta-Ramos of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: Madam Minister, the whole nation wonders, with pain and astonishment, about this chart. [[Show a chart]] It is developed by the University of Oxford, the very favorite source of the President of the Government. It shows the countries of the world with the most deaths per million inhabitants: we are the first, we are the worst. This is not symmetry, this is leadership in the worst sense, this is an immeasurable tragedy and a radical failure. I repeat: Spain is the country with the most deaths per million inhabitants. And I ask you, simply: Why?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u63	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, you were asking me about the transparency of this government; you have now changed the question. Referring to an international authority, which I believe will have the same validity for you as the chart you have pointed out, the Director General of the World Health Organization said last day 9 textually: Spain exemplifies the unified response that is needed to fight the coronavirus. I do not believe, Your Honor, that these statements of the world's own responsible for controlling the pandemic fall to you in a broken bag. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u65	I give the floor to Mrs Alvarez de Toledo Peralta-Ramos. Mrs ÁLVAREZ DE TOLEDO PERALTA-RAMOS: If we are an example of unity, why do you ask for it now? I have asked you a question in the right sense of the word. Sometimes we Members come to this session and take the opportunity to try to collate, nail a headline, get a applause or tweet; what I am looking for is an answer, because I don't know it. I have indications, yes, and, look, this is also a sign: the countries according to the number of tests they have carried out. [[shows a photograph]] The president of the government today has bragged about the number of tests, a ridiculous thing if not a macabre joke, a joke as macabre as listening to Mr. Iglesias present in the Bolivian bishop plan preaching here the Constitution and patriotism. The government has become, Minister, a black hole of incompetence, lies and irresponsibility, and I want to make you an order: first, a point of order, of your responsibility: the tests, make them come and tell us the name of the famous company, which you refuse to say what it is, that of false tests, and, secondly, an order on behalf of the nation, a more than a moral political order: there is no more urgent, nobler, more necessary task, more patriotic, yes, and also more human than finding out why Spain is the first country in number of dead. It is your obligation, because it is a catastrophe, because it has happened under your mandate, and with an aggravating: you boast of being the incarnation of the protective State. Social protection, they say; social shield, they proclaim. Social orphanhood is what you provoke. With Sánchez Spain, we are on our way to triple leadership: deader, more drastic confinement and the worst economic destruction; it is a balance to cry. I want to tell you, Minister, that you are not even able to count the dead. At least give them the posthumous tribute of finding out why they died; not what they died, that we do know, but why they died. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u66	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, Mrs. Alvarez, your speech doesn't deserve it from a country that's confined trying to save lives. [[Applauds]] It is a speech that absolutely discredits the position of your group. And I tell you more, Mrs Álvarez, I do not think that a large part of your party and your group think as you think. You are in a competition with your VOX partners in autonomous communities and I assure you that you will not be able to say a bigger insult than one of the spokespersons said about the pandemic and euthanasia. You can't compete in that field. What are you trying to insinuate, that when the Autonomous Communities are accountable to the Minister of Health they are lying? What are you implying? Do you now want to do the work of the Senate Committee which has met many times already trying to clarify the health situation? Are you amending the plan to those involved by the People's Party in that Commission? Honestly, I believe, Mrs Alvarez de Toledo, that you are wrong, because the adjectives you use in your interventions, to which you are already accustomed, are absolutely disqualifying adjectives, but you do not have any nouns. You have no substance in your intervention, you make no proposal, you do nothing but try to discredit the political position. Your Honor, despite the fact that every time you intervene in this Congress you express the grudge - or at least try to do so - this government and the political parties that support you are going to reach out to the People's Party, despite you, and they are going to reach out to you to try to get this country to a basic consensus on aspects of social and economic reconstruction that citizens demand of us, that citizens demand, because at this moment political unity is essential to get the country out of this situation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u68	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE GOVERNMENT'S DEPARTMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE ANY TAX MEASURES TO RECEIVE FROM WHOM ELSE HAVE THE RESOURCES NEEDED TO FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19? [[File number 180/000076]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u69	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Finance. Has the Government planned any fiscal measures to raise resources from those who have the most to fight COVID-19 and its consequences?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u71	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u72	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. We, I imagine as your group, consider that taxation always has to be fair. Taxation in the pre-pandemic, during the pandemic and after the pandemic has to be a taxation that provides sufficient resources, that allows citizens to enjoy a welfare state, a security mattress that allows them to cope with normal situations and also those that arise in such important issues as health, education or social welfare. You know, moreover, that this Government is based on a progressive agreement that called for a series of tax reforms that were aimed precisely at achieving that progressiveness that we believe must deepen our tax system. We will therefore continue to work in that direction, and we will do so with responsibility and, of course, with the inspiration that the welfare State always has in the action of this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u73	Mr. Errejón Galván.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u74	Thank you, Minister. I have these wishes, although we have not yet seen any developed ones. It is true that there were a whole series of proposals, let us say, on progress towards fairer taxation, but the time is exceptional. The confinement is correct, but it is expensive; it is expensive because it requires resources to protect the Spanish families that are confined - and there we have to insist on a quarantine income again, because many people are staying on the road without being able to access the aids, which have many requirements - and it is expensive, because it will require a lot of public investment to reboot the economy, diversify our productive apparatus and modernize it with an ecological transition. Of course, the fundamental question in this case is: who is going to pay for this? There are two options: this can be paid by raising public revenues or it can be paid, at last, by cuts that will end up paying the usual ones, who paid the previous crisis. You know that better than I do, Minister: for there to be an increase in public revenue, we must put order in the Spanish tax system, which is a profoundly unjust and ineffective system, which rests on the shoulders of the middle and working classes and allows the millionaires, if they want, to get out of our country. So we raised 7.5 points less than the eurozone average and stopped receiving EUR 80 billion, which would now be very good for economic and national reconstruction policy. For this reason, More Country proposes a COVID rate to balance the balance, a COVID rate to do two things: one, set two more tranches in the IRPF for those who have more money, for those who earn up to 100,000 and up to 600 000 euros - the right calls this middle classes and mathematics calls it 1%-; and two, increase 1.5 points to those who declare more than 1 million euros in the property tax. Madam Minister, we will agree that this is a moment of national solidarity, but sometimes at the moment the young people who fill their mouths shouting Spain, when they have to choose between homeland and heritage, always choose heritage. You and I know that there will be no reconstruction of our country if there is no fiscal justice, and believe me if I tell you that this is the time to do so, as a national emergency, by understanding the majority of citizens and by a civic and republican spirit and evidence: we will not have a 21st century country if the millionaires continue to pay taxes as in the 19th century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u75	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Errejon, we agree that confinement is necessary to save lives, and from here, as always, we have to thank all citizens for the effort, discipline and exemplaryness with which they are carrying out that task, which allows - I insist - to save lives. I would also like to say to you, Your Honor, that I consider you to be a solvent and intelligent person and that you know perfectly well that there are measures that can be implemented in crisis situations and others that have a long and medium journey, and that we must take them into account the structural reforms that this country needs, not only in order to be able to tackle this pandemic more intensively, but also because they are necessary for everyone to contribute according to what he has and each one to receive according to what he needs. That is the progressive inspiration, the progressive inspiration that our tax system must have. In this regard, I say to you that two tax figures have now been taken up in this House to discuss with your ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that they will do so with all the rigour that this issue deserves. I would also like to say that this Government is clearly demonstrating that it is doing a different management of this crisis. We did nothing more than reach the Government, when we started to implement all our programmes; we are doing so during the crisis and I can assure you that we will also do so after the crisis, with that great pact that we have called for social and economic reconstruction, which will obviously have to provide this country with a strong welfare state. We'll have to make it possible. And I say to you, Mr Errejón: we are wrong, but less bad that we are. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VICTOR MANUAL SÁNCHEZ OF THE REAL, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL THE GOVERNMENT FOLLOW BY INCLUDING MEDIA PROTECTION WITH THE MONEY OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/000073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u77	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Víctor Manuel Sánchez del Real, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u78	Minister, in addition to the cost of public television, such as Spanish Broadcasting, the autonomous, the municipal, and in addition to the propaganda apparatus that you have at your disposal, have decided to give 15 million euros to your television friends in full royal decree against a pandemic. Not content with that, they want to dedicate - already announced - more than 1 billion euros of institutional advertising to their media friends. Not content with that, they want to devote - it has been announced and is being negotiated, as we all know, because it is being published by the means themselves that had asked - a 30% tax relief to those who invest in advertising in those same media friends. In Spain 14 000 euros per year are devoted to advertising investment. We're talking about you taking 4 billion euros from the Spaniards, 4000 plus a hundred plus 15 plus propaganda televisions. In these circumstances, in this true state of propaganda, what do you hide?, what do you want to hide? I'll tell you. They are hiding what the VOX Parliamentary Group told them a week ago, that today there would be more than 18,000 official deaths and probably many more than 24,000 that we calculated a week ago in all of Spain. Therefore, I ask you: Will the government continue to buy media protection with Spanish money?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u79	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez del Real, the Government of Spain does not buy media protection. The Spanish Government protects itself with its day-to-day work and its commitment to Spanish society in the fight against the virus. I would like to mention that all institutional communication policies are materialized in terms of transparency and in terms of the legality in force, and the aid that has been decreed for the media - some of them in the Royal Decree Law 11/2020, as you well know - have a consequence or reason in the economic impact of the coronavirus crisis, in the impact on employment and on income and in the need to guarantee public information, the information of the various media in order to generate public information. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u81	Mr. Sánchez del Real.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u82	Thank you, President. Don't you then deny me the greatest? I have not been able to deny that 4000 plus a hundred plus 15 public televisions are destined to buy a Pretorian guard at the service of this Socialcommunist government, a Pretorian guard dedicated to concealing that. This was called a bubble last week and this week is the truth: 18,000 official dead and 24,000 dead or more, among them many hidden. [[shows a document]] You are hiding something, because we do not know today how many dead there have been in Spain because of the coronavirus. That's what you're hiding and that's why you buy the wills of the media. Not happy with that, his Pretorians, his Pretorian guard, his assault guard watches what we do, if we send a lot of kisses. You point out who is guilty and the media condemn. Tonight someone may die and watch propaganda on television, without the hand of a good son to speak his eyes when he dies. That is what they are achieving with their propaganda and their state of propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u83	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, Mr. Sánchez del Real, it's really serious in a political representative like you to echo false noises and news. I repeat that it is a serious irresponsibility. I will put some expressions in quotes of those bubbles at a time of major health crisis in our country. I open quotes: Chinese plague; this government wanted to introduce euthanasia and by the way is applying it with our elders; communist jauria that tracks the networks; concentration camps to lock up asymptomatics. You can say that this has been said anonymous profiles. No, they're not anonymous. They are bulls and falsehoods promoted by personalities of their own party. Please reflect on it. What the State Security Forces and Bodies do in the networks is, of course, to control their use to take advantage of and commit crimes related to the coronavirus or to give false news that undermine the public health of all citizens. And there we will continue to be, working and informing citizens so that they do not let themselves be guided by those bubbles, which have either a lucrative purpose, or the purpose of causing a social alarm with a breakdown of public health. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u85	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE WITHDRAWAL OF DECISIONS AND THE PREVENTION OF COVID-19 HAS AFFECTED THE EMPLOYEES IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u86	Questions to the Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Does the Government believe that the delay in prevention and decision-making has affected employment in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u88	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u89	Mr. Echaniz, thank you for your question. We believe that the Government, in the area of labour, has acted promptly. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u90	Mr. Echaniz Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, due speed: three million workers welcomed to ERTE and more than one million self-employed workers subject to a cessation of activity - among others - still today, Wednesday 15, have not charged, and have not charged for their incompetence, and the worst is that they will not charge until next month. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking now about the thousands of dead, the thousands of affected and the thousands of families who have lost their loved ones because of their foolishness and lack of diligence; we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the families who, because of their incompetence at the moment, are deeply distressed to arrive at the end of the month. Ladies and gentlemen, your continuous improvisation, your delays, your incapacity are being a real calamity, a real misfortune for the most vulnerable in this society. You spoke of social shields and have left the workers absolutely to their fate; even the 'kellys' have stayed out of the thousands of ERTE that have occurred. You do not care at all about the anxiety with which the workers are living of not being able to process a discharge, a postponement of a quota or an ERTE, because you, Minister, deceived them with the reinforcement of the public service templates. One begins, ladies and gentlemen, breaking society and then asks for unity; one begins by considering enemies to companies and ends up breaking the labour market; one begins by assaulting the heavens and ends up beating the ground. The fault, Minister, is not yours alone, it is the fault of the President of the Government, who appointed her Minister of Labour without knowing what an ERTE is, or appointed the Minister of Health without knowing what an effective diagnostic test was. Your Honor, all Spaniards feel shame, pain and anger for their irresponsibility, ineptitude and negligence. Here, ladies and gentlemen, in this country, it has fulfilled everyone, it has fulfilled all Spanish society but its government. That's why, Your Honor, we demand that you pay everything you owe to millions of Spaniards who need those benefits... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u92	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u93	Thank you, President. Mr. Echaniz, let's remember, because, look, last March 4th the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy drew a work guide to address the COVID-19 pandemic. I will remind you how your party described it, which, as you know, also has good economic biases; it was qualified as an alarmist, and we were also told that we acted hastily. That, Mr. Echaniz, was last March 4th. I regret your statements at that time, just as I regret your intervention today, which has turned out to be more a series of insults than a political proposal. But, look, Mr Echaniz, there are indeed different answers. When you ruled, the first step you took was the Royal Decree Law 3/2012, which consisted in firing cheaply and making layoffs more flexible, and the first step you took, as the Spanish and Spanish know, was to turn Spain into a yard in terms of precariousness and enormous wage devaluation. What the Spanish Government has done, humbly, Mr Echániz, has, for example, been to prohibit dismissals. And do you know what the Government of Spain has found? The response of the main opposition group saying no; not to those ERTE that today host more than three million people; not to those ERTE that today exempt social security quotas from hundreds of thousands of companies. They have said no to the allowance for domestic workers; they have said no to the special allowance we have created for workers who remain outside; they have said no to the measures we have taken for fixed breaks; they have said no to the Mecuida programme. [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado makes negative gestures]] Mr Echaniz, honestly, you are playing and you believe that what is at stake is the Government of Spain, and the Government of Spain believes that what is at stake is the future of this country. Join, be responsible and save the future of our people together with the Government of Spain and the governments of self-government. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED BARANDIARAN BENITO GIFT, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHAT IMPLICATIONS DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT MAY HAVE ON THE WORK MARKET THE REDUCTION TO THE MITTY OF THE QUOTATIONS THAT THE CC. [[EAJ-PNV]] AA. CAN YOU FOR THE EFFECTIVE LOOKING FOR EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING, INCLUDED IN THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 11/2020? [[File number 180/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u94	Question by Mr Íñigo Barandiaran Benito of the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what implications does the Government have on the labour market if the reduction to half of the amounts that the autonomous communities can devote to the effective search for employment and training, included in the Royal Decree Law 11/2020?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u96	Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u97	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor, for this question, which the Government of Spain considers to be of the utmost interest. As you know, the COVID-19 pandemic has become a huge social and economic crisis. The answer is that the evolution of employment will depend on the actions we develop at three levels: the most important are the decisions taken within the European Union - which is no less; it is key for our country, precisely because of the productive structure and the labour market it has - but also the decisions taken by the Spanish Government and, of course, the decisions taken by the autonomous communities. Active employment policies and coordination with each and every Autonomous Community will be key. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u98	Mr. Barandiaran Benito.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u99	Minister, however, at the meeting of the sectoral conference on 1 April 2020, the Autonomous Communities learned that there was a reduction in the amounts that could be allocated to active employment policies, namely from 2232 million to 1048 million, or 47% of the previous amount. This is also the result of the fact that the seventh additional provision of this Royal Decree Act makes it necessary to allocate such amounts, such income from vocational training contributions, on an exceptional and extraordinary basis, to any of the benefits of the unemployment protection system. We understand that this has some logic. However, Minister, I would like to convey a reflection to you. We believe that it is a serious political mistake to divert funds from active employment policies to finance passive employment policies; it is also a very serious mistake to put it as if it were a disjunctive. You know as well as I do that vocational training aims to facilitate the qualification of workers to the needs of the labour market. That is why, in this exceptional situation, in which many companies and jobs are going to disappear, it makes little sense to decapitalise the policies that will promote the employability of workers - active policies - to finance benefits in situations of need - passive policies, which are also essential. Somehow, not being very successful the simile, do you not think, minister, that it would not be wise to divert funds for researching the vaccine to masks and respirators? It wouldn't make sense. Why? Because it has an absolute lack of logic. On the contrary, Minister, let me say that we understand that greater investment in employability, active employment policies, is required at a higher level of unemployment. That is why we discussed that decision to make that transfer in that particular form and to that particular object. We believe that they should seek funds from other different sites, not from active policies, which are immediately linked to the future of workers' employability and, therefore, to the recovery of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u100	Thank you. Minister of Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u101	Thank you, President. Mr Barandiaran, first of all, as you know, we do not know what we are going to have in terms of training. It's not $2 billion. We do not know today, because, as is known, our employment is falling apart. Therefore, we do not know what the distribution is. Secondly, you know that active employment policies exceed 5 billion and remain the same. The decision taken by the Government of Spain is a difficult decision, like all of them. In view of the consideration that many employment and employment advisers throughout the State had made, aware that they would not be able to implement the training policy and that there was a problem because of the finalist nature of the training policies, the Government of Spain had two possibilities. One possibility was to convert those training funds, which would not be able to be executed, into remnants of treasury affections to SEPE, as happened, by the way, during the 2016/2018 financial year, as this House knows, and another possibility was to feed people and give protection for unemployment. Perhaps we are wrong, although we believe we have chosen well, because, if not, those funds, as you know, would be incorporated into treasury remnants and not executed. Yesterday we distributed, as you know, EUR 1048 million for autonomy, which will also be flexible for the first time. I want to thank you for your tone and the active collaboration of the PNV. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONE CONCEPTION GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT IS PROTECTING THE SPAIN IN THE CRISIS OF COVID-19? [[File number 180/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u102	Questions to the Minister for Health. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u103	Thank you, President. Minister, there is no Oxford study that has been able to rebut that, because of its management of the health crisis, our country has baffling world records. Spain is the country with the highest number of cases per capita; Spain is the country with the highest number of deaths per capita; and Spain is the country with the highest percentage of infected health care workers. With these data, which are scientific evidence and are not random, does the Government consider that it is adequately protecting the Spanish population in the crisis of the COVID-19?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u104	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u105	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gamarra, from the very beginning the Government is working to protect the health of all Spanish citizens. We face - as you know - the largest pandemic in a hundred years. Instruments have been activated and unprecedented measures have been taken. Resources have been mobilized at the health, economic and social levels, as well as at the unprecedented level. We cannot be satisfied with either the number of infected or the number of deceased, but all administrations, I repeat, all administrations are working tirelessly to overcome the virus. I would particularly like to highlight the work of all health professionals in their exemplary capacity. I would also like to highlight the exemplary compliance of the Spanish people as a whole with the drastic measures decided by the Government. We're focused this week on bending the curve; we're getting it. Let's all work together in this direction. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u106	Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u107	Mr. Illa, not like this. We expected you today to make mistakes and ask the Spanish for forgiveness, but we already know that their pride prevents them, prevents them from asking for forgiveness because they have not been adequately protected. Protecting the Spaniards is acting on the recommendations of international bodies, and you hated them; you were occupying the role for which you truly came to the Government of Spain, you were busy in conversations with the independenceists, and the virus continued to advance. Protecting the Spaniards was gathering materials at the beginning of the pandemics. WHO warned you on February 3 and 11, and you didn't. There was no reason to take any further action, he said, and the virus continued to advance. To protect the Spaniards was to have controlled flights with Italy. On 28 February, 83% of the diagnosed cases were imported, most of them from Italy, and until 10 March it did not, and the virus continued to progress. To protect the Spaniards is to know the epidemiological reality: test, test, test, Mr Illa, massive test to the population. It is still not possible, despite the successive announcements of millions of tests made by the President of the Government and yourself. Today we do not know how many Spaniards have already been tested. Protecting the Spaniards is to be effective, but the unique command to centralize the purchases was used by you to requisition the purchases to the autonomous communities and generate unprotected with their inefficiency. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u108	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u109	Protecting Spanish health care providers is equipping them with protective equipment, and they have not yet done so; we have the front line in the fight against the unprotected pandemic. Not another day, Mr. Illa. Are you going to do something at some point? Protecting the Spaniards is giving them clear, simple and consistent messages, giving them certainty, but incoherence and improvisation direct all their actions. You go without course in the face of the important descalation that we have ahead of us. The problem is that you don't go alone, it takes us all Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u110	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u111	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the Government of Spain has always followed the recommendations of the World Health Organization. When the World Health Organization declared an international pandemic on 30 January, our country was already meeting all the WHO recommendations. When the ECDC, the Centre for Disease Prevention, proposed social distancing measures on 12 March, our country already complied with them in areas of significant transmission. On 14 March, our country was the first number of infected and dead to declare the state of alarm, and fifteen days later, on 29 March, we took a more drastic step, reducing activity to those essential sectors, always following the recommendations of the World Health Organization. Your Honor, a lot of the data you've given are not true, and you know it. For this Government, the first priority is the health of citizens, the second priority is the health of citizens and the third priority is the health of citizens. We are defeating the virus all together, sumense - sumense - with unity and loyalty, the same as we offer them. Summese, let's be, please, Your Honor, all up to speed. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN LUIS STEEGMANN OLMEDILLAS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WILL YOU SOMETIME REPORT THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REAL NUMBER OF DEATHS BY COVID-19? [[File number 180/000072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u112	Question by Mr Juan Luis Steegmann Olmedillas, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u113	Good morning, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. My question is: Will the government ever report the actual number of deaths by COVID-19?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u114	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u115	Thank you very much. The Government reports every day on the number of people killed, the number of infected, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs, the number of ICUs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u116	Mr. Steegmann Olmedillas.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u117	Thank you very much. Look, Minister, you know that VOX has helped you a lot, because you wanted to help the Spanish and you want to help the Spanish, with more than 1500 initiatives, Minister. Because of its poor management, Spain is now the country of the world with the most deaths per million inhabitants. What a success, what a government! You claim that the deceased are confirmed cases by PCR and that is not true. In this tanatory where you have converted to Spain there are thousands of dead who have died without the PCR. What are they? There are four layers of corpses: the first, cases of poorly counted COVID-19 in which you do not make PCR; possible, probable, suspicious; do not count them as confirmed and therefore come out of the statistics, what good! The second layer, mainly elderly Spaniards who have died in residences with poorly diagnosed COVID. The third layer, the bodies without autopsies in order. The fourth, collateral victims of patients who have not come to the hospital or the doctor for fear of becoming infected. This explains the excess mortality that has been detected not only by the MoMo surveillance system but also by the courts. You're going to investigate it, but you're just not cooperating. Do you know that your Minister of Justice has not requested the particular 'cause of death' in his circulars? Do you also know that death registrations do not include the cause of death and that officials are going to have to go to the file looking for death certificates? Is it coddling or is it bad faith? Choose. It is useless to ask them to be competent - it is useless - but at least they do not lie to us. It is an insult to the dead and a contempt for those who mourn them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u118	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u119	Thank you very much, President. Mr Steegmann, the government has done and will continue to do a transparency effort in all matters concerning COVID-19. On the subject of deaths, I ask you to be especially serious; I ask you to be especially serious. Spain communicates the number of people killed by COVID in accordance with the international protocols of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and WHO; communicates them in time and in form, in twenty-four hours and according to the international forms, and communicates the deceased persons who have previously been diagnosed by COVID-19, as established by the international protocols, Your Honor. This is what the Government of Spain is doing and what Spain will continue to do, and you know perfectly well that the mortality of COVID-19 in our country is 10.46%; in Italy, Belgium and the United Kingdom it is over 12%, and in France it is over 15%. The figures are what they are, Mr Steegmann. I have appeared weekly on the Health Commission of this Congress and there I have the opportunity to share and discuss arguments with you. He's repeatedly telling me that he's offering me his help. I have three sessions - and I add this as a fourth - trying to see where the help you offer me is. The first help I ask is that we be serious about the figures and the data. If you don't want to collaborate, if you don't want to join the collective effort to beat the virus, at least don't misreport. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED TO GUARANTEE THE AVAILABILITY OF INDIVIDUAL PROTECTION AND TEST EQUIPMENT TO DETECT COVID-19 IN SuffICIENT NUMBER TO BE ABLE TO ENSURE THE APPROPRIATE PROTECTION OF WORKERS DECIDED TO ESSENTIAL ACTIVITIES, AS THE RESULT OF POPULATION IN A SCHEME OF DISCHANGE OF CONFINATION MEASURES? [[EPI]] [[File number 180/000085]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u120	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u121	Thank you, President. Your Honor, does the Government have a plan to ensure the availability of personal protective equipment and testing, first of all, for people who are at-risk collectives and who are heroically fighting the virus and, second and foremost, for the millions of workers who have returned to work this week?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u122	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u123	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the government has been working for many weeks, even a few months, in two directions. First, in the purchase of personal protective material and other sanitary material that was needed to combat the virus and, second, in the activation of the production of material necessary also to combat the virus, especially in the two categories that you mentioned: personal protective equipment and diagnostic test, whether PCR or rapid diagnostic test. All of this complements the work - which I recognize - of the Autonomous Communities in these two chapters. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u124	Mr. French Ball.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u125	Thank you. Your Honor, we all have the certainty that the government is improvising. This is creating insecurity and fear, it's going to create what I call the alarm within the state of alarm. On Sunday night, again, entrepreneurs and workers were watching the BOE - instead of watching a movie on television - because they did not know if the next day they had to resume work without having masks, for example. Did you have any plans, or did you also improvise, for example, the measurement of the distribution of masks in sixteen stations of the Madrid Metro? Are we the citizens who have to buy the masks at the pharmacy? Is it only the companies that are responsible for providing the workers with masks? Clarify it to us, tell us. Do you not think that these measures should run away from unilaterality and have the consensus of the opposition and the social actors, precisely within those plans of national reconstruction that Citizens propose? And I ask you about the teams: Now the masks are useful, when last week or two were not? Or were you guys playing misinformation with people because there weren't enough masks? Please report well. Are you guys finally going to do the massive tests? And in that scenario of descalation, which you call yourselves, are you really going to propose the forced confinement of asymptomatic people? I imagine it'll be with judicial control. Explain it to me, if you don't mind. Will the children be able to go out and play on the street? Will families be able to be in hospitals, accompanying their loved ones? I'm finally asking you about the hiring. What happened to the tests that weren't reliable, they gave him back the money, they changed them for reliable tests? Was it a brilliant idea to buy from a company that did not have Chinese government approval? Because you still have an obligation to act with transparency and information, the state of alarm does not relax with regard to these obligations. Tell us who the middleman was, tell us who the middlemen are now in the press. And finally, tell us who are the experts in which they support their decisions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u126	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u127	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, in the area of personal protective equipment, the Government's priority was health professionals. In this sense we developed an option to purchase these products, all of which met the standards necessary to be used in the European Union and which were reviewed upon arrival in Spain to check that their technical specifications corresponded to the material actually supplied. The second priority has been to provide protective equipment to those essential service workers who, because of the characteristics of their work, required it. In addition, I would like to acknowledge the work that business and trade union organisations have done to adapt their mechanisms and their work or production processes so that all their workers have the necessary protection required by the new conditions of the Covid-19. Finally, last week - on Wednesday - the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control adopted for the first time - on Wednesday last week - a recommendation for the use of masks. The Government of Spain the day after - on Thursday - already defined a new type of mask, the hygienic mask, which has been regulated by three UNE standards, the last one published this morning. In this regard, the Government of Spain has three priorities: the personal distancing of people - ideally two metres, at least one metre -, frequent hand washing - as it seems, very effective - and hygiene in public and private spaces. And, in line with what the ECDC recommended last Wednesday, the Government of Spain put on Monday and Tuesday ten and a half million masks at the disposal of those people who could not, by the means of transport they used, maintain the interpersonal distance we recommend. As far as diagnostic testing is concerned, the Spanish Government's strategy is based on the RCPs: we make 20 000 daily and we are working to increase them. We are on top of the European countries. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u128	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent call by the VOX Parliamentary Group for the Government to explain the measures it will take to deal with the biggest economic crisis in Spain since the Civil War. For your defence, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, we are experiencing moments that are crucial for the future of our country, exceptional moments that require effective, urgent and compelling responses that serve to limit the consequences of this pandemic; moments that also demand serenity, calm and broad-sightedness. Since the end of January, as you know, in VOX we have been presenting an endless number of initiatives: some health care, others economic ones, also in defense of the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards that under no circumstances can be ignored or violated because they are in the state of alarm. All of them have been registered in this House. There are 1834 questions, 73 non-law proposals, a proposal for a law and 62 requests for information on COVID-19. The content of some of these initiatives I have been able to defend here, in the past, and, as you know, in the economic field VOX has advocated from the outset for the implementation of measures to ensure liquidity in companies and the maintenance of employment, and all this in defence of our productive fabric. He also knows that in order to avoid the destruction of a company or a job of more we proposed that the State take over the payroll of all workers for at least three months, of all workers who, as I say, have been held in their homes. [[The lady]] In VOX we are fulfilling our obligation and we have been offering effective measures, close to the needs of our workers, our traders, our self-employed and our SMEs, and today we are doing it again by exercising control over the government, denouncing the uncertainty of some measures and the misconception of others to save the productive fabric. And we have asked, it is true, for this government to resign because we believe that you are infiltrating the worst possible ideology at the worst possible time. Honestly, the policies of this government, if they continue to succeed in its most communist version, will not only not get us out of the crisis but will sink us further into it. So today again we come to fulfill our obligation and look beyond, with hope, because there is an alternative to the concept of sinking our economy so that we can expropriate it cheaper and then subject the Spaniards to dependence on a basic government income. That is why, in addition to asking him now to explain the steps his Government is going to take in this crisis, I will also talk about what we believe should be done. Since the Government is dedicated to opposing the opposition, and we have witnessed this in the last few weeks in the House, we will use it to tell the Government what a Government should be doing. The thousands of Spaniards who are confined to their homes, those who have lost their jobs, those who have seen their businesses closed and those who have doubts about our future deserve to be told that there is a promising tomorrow to write. And it is that the future is not yet written: it is up to us to write it, just as it was for our parents and grandparents to write successfully the recent history of Spain. They received a devastated, isolated and divided Spain, and left us a prosperous, open and concordant Spain after having forgiven each other. Some of them have died in these days, many of them alone; others are now fighting against the virus, and all deserve to be thanked, let us not forget, and let us remember part of the legacy that they and others have left us, also in the economic and industrial arena. There were thousands of people with specific names, names and surnames who were able to lead, transform and inspire our nation, who opened Spain to the world by driving our primary sector, by modernizing, for example, the wine, oil, fruit, red fruit or fishing sector, or by revolutionizing the textile or tourism sector worldwide, putting our country on the map. We could remember, for example, how on September 25, 1941, in the midst of the war, that is, in a situation substantially worse than that which we have today, the National Institute of Industry is founded, an institution that, under the command of Juan Antonio Suanzes, created of nothing - or, in some case, rescued and relaunched - industrial companies such as Seat, Pegasus, Ence, Electric Network, Endesa, Sevillana, Hunosa, Ensidesa, Santa Barbara, CS - today Repsol -, Enagas, Butano, Bazán, Spanish Shipyards, Iberia, Aviaco, Aeronautics Constructions - today part of Airbus -, companies grouped by the INI that came to represent 30% of our gross domestic product. All this, out of nowhere. Or we can remember that, thirty years later, the attraction by José María López de Letona of the company Ford Almussafes in Valencia, together with the pre-existing industries of Renault, Valladolid, Seat, Barcelona, and Barreiros, in Villaverde, was an opening of gates thanks to which many other car factories later arrived in our country, such as Opel, Citroën, Peugeot, Volkswagen Nissan, Mercedes-Benz. With all of them, a massive car industry came to Spain, whose rebuf was also installed by the auxiliary industry, which has created Spanish giants who today compete as world leaders and which, by the way, is leading the transformation of their sector by electrification of the car. Thanks to all of them Spain is today the second car manufacturer in Europe, as rare as it seems, the first in diesel and one of the first seven in the world. In the next thirty years, Spain has committed a major investment in infrastructure of all kinds, launching our industry to construction, engineering, infrastructure management, in which, again, today it is a pioneer in the world. But in the next 20 years, which are the last 20 years, there has been no similar impact initiative, and now is the time. Madam Minister, as we have seen, in the past Spain has been able to create its own industry and attract foreign investment; Spain has created jobs and wealth at a rate and in this grave present it is essential that we do so again in order to generate a better future. Today, the efforts of an emergency government that Spain needs should be focused exclusively on saving the health crisis and avoiding the economic crisis, and that is why there must be someone, appointed by the government but outside it, who is thinking only of reindustrializing Spain. We need to look for a professional of recognized prestige that we can support all parties to lead such an ambitious project and form an equally qualified team for this work. In Italy they have done so with the former world president of Vodafone, the former world president of a great technological company, and their mission is to rebuild the country; I insist, it has to be someone with professional baggage and conferred authority but apart from politics and politicians. Returning to Spain, and partly thanks to the automotive sector, our industry has been able to assimilate and develop innovative concepts such as robotics, just in time, just in sequence, efficient logistics processes, continuous improvement, the Six Sigma, Industry 4.0, continuing training, dual vocational training, integration of suppliers within the factories themselves, the economy at work, rotation of tasks to avoid routine, quality audits and so many others. Thanks to these expectations and other analogues in other sectors Spain is in a good position to take advantage of the technological transformation that will alter the competitive positions of companies. Productivity increases associated with new technologies can favour a spring of industry in Spain that will create high value added jobs. Spain, which neither wants nor can nor should compete in labour costs, has to do so in talent and reliability, and that requires changing the way we have managed our human capital. Today, Spain has one of the best fixed networks in the world in the digital field, but unfortunately it lacks an ambitious digital agenda that makes it possible for digital transformation to drive innovation and progress. On the other hand, we have a whole series of young entrepreneurs, not so young, autonomous in more than one sense, with innovative projects in a wide variety of fields that just need a little support to develop their projects and make them grow in medium-sized enterprises. We have a consolidated pharmaceutical industry, with which we can stimulate the creation of biotechnology projects, we have a unique opportunity to develop perhaps the most ambitious project in our energy history if we are finally able to attract the particle accelerator to Granada and if we are able to agree on multiple administrations. We have the ability to generate a technology industry to develop robotics, artificial intelligence and other high-tech projects if we lay foundations similar to those laid in Silicon Valley 70 years ago. That is, a culture of respect for those who take risks, tolerance for failures, celebration of others' successes, a conducive legislation to be able to take those risks; universities that offer excellence in the areas of STEM, in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, to attract brilliant minds; a budgeted client, who demands and consumes technological initiatives, such as the military industry, which is so badly treated in this country, and launchers and nurseries where project creators can collaborate and learn from previous experiences, as well as a legal framework that favors venture capital financing for new credits. We have a huge world-leading experience in the banking sector, a very sophisticated sector that could help relaunch the fintech sector if a favourable regulation is adopted, or at least a regulatory sandbox so that new projects can be approved and work together with the Administration in the best way to legislate the sector as progress is made. As a result of the previous economic crisis of 2008, we have an unusual amount of Spanish talent with experience all over the world that we could try to attract with a genuine return operation. For all this and much more, as I said last week, the opportunity now presented to us is very clear, but it requires Spain to move from fiscal hell to employment paradise, from poly-administrative bureaucratic labyrinth to the style of investment imitated around the world. The future of Spain is played in that we are able to make Spain an attractive country for investment, fruitful for industry and favorable for entrepreneurship and employment. In short, in Spain we have an enormous potential that can and must be liberated, but we will only achieve it with an attitude favourable to development, growth and the creation of wealth, with an indisputable framework of legal certainty, with a reasonable and predictable fiscal environment, with a political environment conscious of its important but limited role as facilitator or catalyst, and all this is achieved only by departing from any temptation to yield to Marxist, Chavista or Communist ideas, because the confidence of a country takes a long time to build but very little to destroy, and that is precisely why its Government, unfortunately, will not be able to do so, but fortunately others will do so, and for the good of Spain we hope it will be very soon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u130	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u131	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to address all our fellow citizens, since this is the first time that I am speaking today, and above all to show my empathy, my accompaniment and my sympathy to all those who are having a particularly bad time in this situation, in particular those who have been mentioned frequently this morning, who have not been able to say goodbye to their loved ones in this exceptional situation, but also to all those who are confined in their homes, making a great effort to maintain high morale, to contribute with their efforts to get our country out of this very difficult situation as soon as possible. Go these first words to accompany them, to thank all the Spaniards, who stay at home, who are working so that Spain does not stop. I would also like to convey a message of encouragement to you. We must keep our spirits high, we must continue to turn to helping others and also continue to seek solutions, dedicate our capacity and creativity to giving new answers to this unprecedented situation and try to overcome in the best possible way this new daily life that we are facing. I want to send them all a strong hug and all my heart. Your Honor, the statement of your inquiry was about how the Government was going to deal with the biggest economic crisis in our country's recent history. Let me start by telling you that in order to overcome the economic crisis, the first thing we have to do is to overcome the health crisis. As we have consistently said, there can be no dichotomy between the economic and health situation. In order for the economy to work well, we have to overcome this situation of exceptional health and that is why we have been taking prompt, effective measures, guided by the recommendations of the health experts and aligned with what the countries of our environment are doing, as my colleague the Minister of Health has once again explained in detail today. The priority objective is to contain the health crisis, preserve people's lives and prevent the collapse of our National Health System. That is why, from the very beginning, we have devoted many resources to strengthening the human and technical resources of the health system, improving coordination - a particularly important issue in a decentralized system like ours, in which it is the autonomous communities that have the responsibility for management in both the health and social services fields - and facilitating and enhancing investment in research, trying to give as soon as possible with that vaccine that we all want. I believe that this is the only way to deal with this crisis in order to be able to act in any other area or on any other front with a view to the medium term. We must tackle the health crisis as soon as possible. That is why we have had to take the drastic measures necessary to deal with it and, in particular, the confinement of citizens and social distancing; measures that have a clear economic and social impact. That is why, although at first the impact on our economy came from the closure of China and the global value and production chains, at second the fall in demand and the closure of the borders mainly affected the tourism sector. It is now, in this third phase, when we see the effect of falling production, of falling demand for the measures taken in our country to reduce the mobility of people; something I am sure that your lordship shares that it is absolutely essential if we want to reduce the curve of contagion and keep this virus at bay. The data confirm that the strategy followed by the Government is correct to relieve pressure on the health system, but, in parallel, we have also wanted to weave a dense safety net for citizens, especially for the most vulnerable, and also to take a set of measures to preserve economic activity in a kind of hibernation, a reduction in the pace of the economy, to avoid the destruction of the business and industrial fabric, the destruction of jobs. I am pleased that you share this objective, as I have heard this morning in your presentation. This is the objective that has guided all the measures that we have been taking from the first day until yesterday, when the deadline for the quarterly tax returns for 95% of the autonomous and SMEs in our country was extended to 20 May; measures that you know well, since we have been reporting to this House on time. As an example, let me recall a few here. To alleviate the costs of businesses, we have approved a moratorium on the payment of taxes and contributions to businesses and self-employed, in addition to postponing debts with Social Security. To reduce the families' bill for their basic energy supplies, we have extended the electric social bonus, we have banned the cutting of supplies and we have also banned the increase in the price of butane from the last resource price of natural gas. To give liquidity to local corporations for social assistance, we have enabled up to 300 million euros of the surplus they had in 2019, in addition to a specific program of another 300 million euros for this purpose, especially to care for dependent people. To alleviate the mortgage burdens of families and self-employed, we have approved a mortgage moratorium, both for regular housing and for small business premises. We have also approved a moratorium on the payment of rental rents, distinguishing between large tenants and small tenants in order not to transfer the problems of vulnerable tenants to the latter; we have adopted the suspension of evictions for rent-free rent and a new rental aid programme with EUR 700 million. We have also enabled the rescue of pension plans and savings funds and the moratorium on non-mortgage loans. In order to maintain the incomes of workers and self-employed persons who have not been able to work during the state of alarm, to which you have referred, we have created a cessation benefit for self-employed persons who see their billing reduced by 75% or who have to close. We have exempted them from paying their workers' contributions when they are in this situation, and we have made temporary employment regulations more flexible, ensuring workers' access to benefits. This does not include new subsidies created for particularly vulnerable groups, such as domestic workers or temporary workers. Finally, to ensure the liquidity of the companies in our country, among the first measures we take is the strengthening of the pre-existing lines of the Official Credit Institute and the creation of a new line of up to 100 billion public guarantees. We have recorded - the latest data I have - almost 50 000 operations on this new line for a guarantee amount of more than EUR 5 billion, prioritising autonomous and SMEs, for which operations that total more than EUR 6500 million have already been approved. This is a tiny part of the many measures that we have been taking and that we continue to complete. Also in the digital field - which I know is of particular interest to your group - we have launched the Plan Accelerate SME to help the investment necessary for teleworking; we have created a conversational assistant for the elderly, a chatbot through WhatsApp that has been experienced as a pilot in the Autonomous Community of La Rioja; we have developed a self-diagnostic app for mobiles, AssistanceCOVID-19, which has already been deployed in six autonomous communities after the pilot of the Community of Madrid, to unlock the 112 service; we have launched a unified web; we are developing artificial intelligence tools to care for people's displacements, to be able to prevent and identify possible agglomerations where the risk of contagion can be increased. Both the INE and the Ministry of Transport are going to make these reports public, and I would like from here to thank the telecommunications operators who are up to the task, helping us to have this information so important for decision-making. I would like to point out here that, with full respect for our individual and collective values and freedoms, safeguarding the right to privacy and privacy of citizens, protecting the public and collective interest. In short, there are many measures that we are taking from the very beginning. I agree with you that the future is not written and that is why I think it is essential to help those key sectors, tractors of our economy; to help those sectors most affected by this crisis, among which, of course, is tourism, also culture, the automotive sector - which you have mentioned - and industry. We have to bet on that productive fabric. In all my public interventions I always say that Spain has important assets; important assets in physical and digital infrastructures; with an industrial fabric of large leading companies in its sectors and also SMEs that have adapted and compete without any complex at international level. But, above all, the most important asset that Spain has are its people; people who are supportive, creative, flexible, adapt to the new circumstances and who will come forward. In this regard, my interpretation of your question is that you agree with what this Government has been doing, namely to try to protect the productive fabric, to maintain employment and, ultimately, to have a basis on which we can build as soon as possible this great plan of reforms and investments, this plan of economic recovery; a plan that necessarily has a national but also a European aspect, at least, in order to be able to deal with the huge amount of investment that will be necessary to undertake this reconstruction, this economic recovery. But before we reach that stage we have to overcome the health crisis, we have to ensure that jobs are maintained, that the incomes of citizens are protected and that we find the right balance between the need to limit people's mobility and to maintain a minimum of activity in order to have that basis on which to build the next phase of our economy, the exit from this health, economic and social crisis. Now, as important as knowing when we will be going out is also knowing how we will be going out, and the only thing I would like to make clear to you, Your Honor, is that with this government we will all be going out together without leaving anyone behind. I hope that you will support us in that process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, you have started saying that there cannot be a dichotomy between the management of the health crisis and the management of the economic crisis. With regard to the management of the health crisis, I refer to what Dr Steegmann has brilliantly defended all these weeks, and I would particularly stress that if they had taken certain measures in time - and especially with regard to the tests and the verification of the health status of many Spaniards - perhaps the exit from this crisis would have been another, because, like any geometric progression, the final product depends entirely on how the series is started. In the economic sphere, it is very important for the Government not to dry out the plant that is our Spanish economy. That is why we have always talked about infusing liquidity and saving employment. And that is precisely why we are saying that someone outside this government should already be thinking about how to rebuild Spain and, possibly, the best solution, as we say, would be someone of recognized prestige in the business world who had no political connection, a name of consensus with which we would be very willing to collaborate. Because the economy, Minister, as you well know, is a state of mind. The economy depends on the future expectations of the actors who make up the same economic reality in which we are all involved. And in that state of mind, what economic agents have to do with growth is trust. For there to be confidence there must be at least one Government that does not interfere with economic growth, that does not think development is bad, that does not think that economic growth must be stopped, that does not think that these are notions of another century, but quite the contrary: a Government that is willing to cooperate, a Government that is willing to make life easier for those who create jobs, for workers, for small traders, for self-employed people and for all those who generate wealth in our country. We welcome many of the measures that we have been proposing for a long time, but we regret that many of them are late, because the appropriate measures taken on time no longer have the same effectiveness. Then there is another part that worries me much more and that is that I think it is well known that in this government there are at least two factions in the economic sphere. You lead one and the representatives of Podemos lead another. I am very afraid that in more than one Council of Ministers - and I am deeply sorry about this - you are not the one who is taking the cat to the water, but the opposite, those of Podemos. But what I'm really worried about is seeing you embrace the same vocabulary and the same prohibitive desire. You have said to ban many times. He then spoke of measures for some Spaniards, for the self-employed whose billing has fallen by 75%. Hey, and for all the others, for whom 50% has fallen, 60%? Are there no measures for those? The communist pompite model is, as always, strangling the economy and then giving gifts to some members of that same economy - who, of course, owe their own subsistence to the state - and to others, nothing. That is why I say that I am particularly concerned that you acquire that same vocabulary and that same philosophy. It has been right in one thing - or at least we agree on one thing - and it is that the biggest asset in Spain, its biggest raw material, is not oil or diamonds - we do not have that kind of raw material - but we have a very important one that is Spanish and, especially, the talent and creativity of all those who make up our economic sector. You're also talking about leaving no one behind, Minister. I think those same Spaniards cannot think the same, because at the time when the state had to have responded we found that there are 800,000 workers on the street. The measures, especially those of liquidity that you are offering, come late, Minister, and are again put at the service of an administrative bureaucratic machinery that is exasperating managers, companies, SMEs and traders who fail to reach that necessary liquidity. You say that you leave no one, but the employees we have confined to your home do not feel the same, and we have not given them a solution to re-enter the labour market. You say you don't leave anyone behind, but that's not what the self-employed think, 3.2 million self-employed people who've already seen how they've forced them to close their business while they were passing the March quota. The self-employed organisations complain that 70% of the employed persons will be left without help for cessation of activity and without exemption from the quotas because they cannot demonstrate precisely the 75% drop in activity to which you referred. And when he says that he leaves no one behind, I believe that health care providers should also feel rather misunderstood, because precisely the negligence of this government has made us have the highest rate of infection and infection within those professionals who are so important to our country. All the major crises of the Spanish economy in the last century had their origin in the accumulation of a great deficit of competitiveness and balance of payments, and this was being seen coming from before the crisis. We must not allow this pandemic to conceal the economic crisis and the recession that was already coming, because we had all the indications that they pointed in the same direction. That is why it is far more important than ever that today we have a government that generates confidence in the markets, that generates confidence in economic operators, that is capable of generating in all Spaniards and in all those who are looking to Spain from outside the confidence that a better future awaits us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u134	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, too. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u135	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I'm going to give you a few thoughts on your reply. Firstly, it is clear that we need to overcome the health crisis as a first step towards economic recovery, and at the moment it is up to us to persevere in the measures we have taken, not to lower our guard and continue to adopt complementary packages to support the productive fabric, the workers and the families. Secondly, you said that expectations, mood, are fundamental. I believe that citizens know that they have in us a responsible government, a prudent government, a government that is doing everything possible to try to deal with this very complicated situation in the best possible way. But, above all, they have a Government committed to the whole population, especially the most vulnerable. In this sense, I am drawn to the attention that they want to build a better future starting with a kind of apocalyptic description of our reality. The truth is that the Spanish economy, until the end of February, even until mid-March, has had a very robust growth, higher than the rest of the countries in our environment. The truth is that international markets trust us, as reflected in each of the public debt auctions this week. Let us trust in our country, let us also speak well of how positive our country is and we are not constantly calling for a crisis that did not exist, that was not with us until the health crisis and, consequently, the economic and social impacts have reached us. Thirdly, I would like to point out to you that the Government is in constant contact with the social partners. We have practically daily contacts and tomorrow I will have a teleconference again with the representatives of the employers, with the representatives of the workers. We are in constant contact with the autonomous communities, with health experts, with our European partners to take the necessary steps together. And I want here to pay tribute to these social actors who have such an important role in the vertebration of our society and who are acting so responsibly in this very complicated situation. This is where I disagree with you at all, because it seems to suggest that all the public is suspicious, is negative and that, however, a private entrepreneur would be the person who could clarify and give us the vision of the future that our country needs, that it would be someone independent without any influence, that would represent the general interest. The truth is, it is not my experience; I believe that if there is something clear in this crisis, it is the need to strengthen what unites us, to strengthen the public, what citizens trust and do well. I also trust the public sector and I know that public workers are constantly striving to improve the lives of their fellow citizens and, at this time, trying to respond to daily needs and also preparing for the exit from this crisis, that reconstruction programme that is going to be fundamental and that I hope we can start discussing as soon as possible. The fourth reflection is that this crisis should not make us forget who we are, what our values are, what our principles are, what society we want to remain in the future. In this sense, I do share the importance of creativity, as you have said, and also of solidarity and resilience. I am proud of the behaviour of all Spanish entrepreneurs, of Spanish workers, of Spanish citizens, who are leaning on each other to get out of this very complicated situation together. In short, Your Honor, I believe that we share the objective, I hope that the whole parliamentary arc that is here today will share it; the Government is working and putting everything on its side to try to get out of this health crisis as soon as possible and to accompany society as a whole so that the negative impact, which is inevitable from an economic and social point of view, is also minimized. I believe that the best service that can be done to our country at this time is to act loyally, seriously, by making constructive and realistic contributions that will help us get out of this situation as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u136	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. - THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES OF THE MEASURES INCLUDED IN THE REAL DECRED LAWS APPROVED BY THE GOVERNMENT FROM THE INITIATIVE OF THE CRISIS OF COVID-19. [[File number 172/000016]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u137	Thereafter, the People's Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to Congress to the Government to explain the economic and social consequences of the measures included in the Royal Decree-Laws adopted by the Government since the start of the COVID-19 crisis. For your defence, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Calviño, welcome. I want my first words, like yours, to show admiration and gratitude to all the health workers and to all those who are at the foot of the cannon to ensure the tranquility and the supply of the entire population. I gather the glove of your embrace and your support for all the families of the 18,579 deceased, and I would like to ask you a question: if you consider it appropriate for the Government of Spain to decree official mourning to honor those deceased and for their families to see how they are effectively supported and sent the affection and recognition of the entire Spanish population. [[Applauds]] Mrs Calviño, I imagine it is not easy for you to come here to answer questions from the opposition on a day when all the front pages of the national newspapers teach us a forecast of frankly alarming economic figures, and believe me if I tell you that it is not easy for us to come to the government at this time, in the face of the tide of real decrees that have been adopted in recent weeks. We are faced with the height of improvisation and legal uncertainty. A real economic decree is passed every three days, the criterion is changed from one to another and even ministerial orders are needed to clarify its scope and interpretation. Real decrees that are published at night and after leaking to the press texts that finally do not see the light, sometimes only a few hours after its entry into force, thus causing confusion and insecurity in the millions of Spaniards who are affected by these real decrees. A royal decree has even been validated on the same day that it was exhausted. Mrs. Calviño, do you think it's minimally serious? What would have happened if this House had rejected that royal decree? This way of acting highlights the complete absence of a serious, rigorous plan that generates confidence and certainty in the Spaniards, who feel so abandoned by their government, however much Mr Sánchez repeats machaconically, in those endless talks worthy of banana republics, that they will not leave anyone behind; today almost all his ministers have repeated it here. Empty words, Mrs. Calviño, as always; great headlines with less force than the time it takes to pronounce them. What certainties does the Government offer the Spanish? What future project do you have for the whole of Spanish society, for workers, for businesses, for the self-employed, for the whole of our country's productive fabric? We don't know why they didn't say anything, Mrs. Calviño. My group is aware of the special moment that we are experiencing and have been loyal to the Government, much more than you have been to us on other occasions and, of course, much more than your own partners, including your governmental partners. But, above all, we are loyal to the Spaniards, to whom we owe ourselves, and that is why we say to them that we do not, that we are wrong, that things can be done in another way and that, to follow the path that we are going by the hand of the Communists of Podemos, the consequences of this crisis will be devastating for Spain. Because, Madam Vice-President, let me tell you that it gives the impression that Churches are winning you the game, at least in these last royal decrees. Mrs Calviño, I told you that you lack a plan to deal with this crisis, and that worries us enormously. A plan must necessarily have three parts: a rigorous analysis of the causes, a realistic description of the current situation and future consequences, and a list of effective and possible measures to reverse those negative consequences. In you we can't see any of those three parts. With regard to the causes of why Spain is being plagued by this health and economic crisis more virulently than other countries, I will not stop much because, unfortunately, they are known for all the lies of the Government and frivolity or, if you prefer, pride, with which the warnings of international agencies were taken in front of a pandemic that, while it is true that it is global, strikes our country in particular and, in fact, we have the worst ratios of contagion and deaths per capita in the world; the worst ratios in the world, Mrs Calviño, and that always has a reason. If I stop anything else on the second of the premises, the realistic description of the situation. Mrs. Calviño, against what they were saying and you just said from this rostrum a few minutes ago, in the last year we were no longer well. The economic growth they inherited from the People's Party was shrinking rapidly; it is true that we grew more than the rest of Europe, but it is also true that we were the ones who were the most likely to reduce that growth in Europe. You inherited robust growth, but did not reach this pandemic with robust growth. They managed to lower growth forecasts to three times in six months, and they still didn't get it right. The public deficit grew again last year for the first time since 2012, a deviation of more than 25%, Mrs Calviño, as much as they said they would meet the already relaxed goal that you set yourselves. They did not tell the truth with the public deficit either to the Spanish or to their European partners. Our labour market was losing its strength in forced marches; in January almost 250 000 jobs were lost and you were, however, taking out your breasts. They have not done a single reform of the many we need over the past two years, and the only signs they sent to everyone were that they were going to raise all taxes and even create some new ones. This is the sad record of your economic policy, Mrs Calviño, until the arrival of the coronavirus in our country in early January. And today you're still breast-feeding. To deceive yourself, Mrs Calviño, is the beginning of a wrong conclusion. From there, I have already mentioned this: blindness in the face of a reality that we were being warned of by all the international bodies and that could easily be predicted by observing the situation in which other partners were in the European Union, particularly Italy. You yourself stated on 4 March that the impact of coronavirus would be insignificant and transitory; on 4 March, Mrs Calviño, when analysts estimate that the fall in GDP in the first quarter was 12%. How can you say, Mrs. Calviño, you didn't see it coming? Doesn't the government have models for economic prediction? Where are those models or conclusions that the model came to? I'd beg you to make them public. And there came the 8-M and then the hecatombe: declaration of the state of alarm at four days, the total closure of our economy, the complete absence of testing, the loss of jobs - almost 900,000 jobs lost in just fifteen days -, the ERTE that already affects more than 3.5 million workers, the closure of companies - up to 122,000 employers less in those fifteen days - and the rapid approval and running of that cascade of real decrees of an economic and labor nature, with rectifications, changes of criteria, etc., so that these are real decrees that can be said as a whole to generate more uncertainty than confidence, more doubts than certainties. Some of those royal decrees were scandalously insufficient - there is the one referring to tourism and those 200 million that do not arrive, minister, absolutely for nothing -. Most have no economic memory, all of them lack a contingency plan for the public administration, so that in some cases, such as ICO or SEPE, the implementation of these measures has collapsed, making them unserviceable. In short, and as usual in socialists, much grandiose announcement but little positive result. As I said earlier, the Government is constantly repeating the mantra that we will not leave anyone behind, but that is not the reality that the Spanish are experiencing, Madam Vice-President. You leave behind the self-employed mothers who complete their maternity leave in March or April, who will not be able to accept the benefit for the cessation of activity - you, who presume to be feminists -; you leave behind 1.5 million self-employed, 50% of the total, who are excluded from the benefit for the cessation of activity, with virtually no activity and with the obligation to pay the April quota as well as that of March; you leave behind the self-employed mutualists, who are left out of all the measures that you have approved - we speak of about 450 000 families, minister -. About 3.5 million workers who are subject to an ERTE have not received their benefit and are already 45 days old without entering their current accounts, Mrs Calviño. They condemn the autonomous communities, and I explain myself. They announce the advance of 28 billion euros of the deliveries on account instead of returning to them the 25 billion euros of the VAT outstanding in 2017, which belongs to these autonomous communities because it has been paid by their citizens and it is their responsibility by law; and they do so knowing that with the foreseeable fall of tax revenues this year these autonomous communities will have to return billions of euros from the year 2022. They also require billions to improve the employability of the unemployed and you are going to use them simply to pay the unemployment benefit; not to create jobs, but to pay the unemployed. That is the Labour Policy of the Socialist Party, as it weighs, Minister. And they also condemn the municipalities, for those who announce an injection of 300 million - you did this morning - when they continue to hold them 700 million of the VAT of 2017 that, as in the case of the autonomous communities, belong to the neighbors of those municipalities. They require companies to have PPE that are incapable of providing not only to the public sector as a whole but also to health care providers, when they know that 95% of companies lack such PPE because they are not on the market. How can one demand something that is impossible to comply with and that the State itself does not comply? Presumably not to leave anyone lying, Mrs. Calviño? You're still claiming you're not letting anyone down? This is the situation that millions of Spaniards are experiencing. This is the reality that neither Mr. Redondo's communication tricks can hide and you, Mrs. Calviño, must be honest and recognize it, because, if not, you will hardly be able to implement measures to alleviate its effects and will follow improvisation after improvisation, until the final disaster. And from now on what? What is your road map for the future? Mrs Calviño, Spain does not need a government dedicated to blaming everyone: experts, the European Union, the autonomous communities, the opposition. No, Mrs. Calviño. Spain needs leadership, and in sight it does not have it; of course, it does not have it in this Government. But I repeat: what is your road map for the future? What do you have in mind? What impact does this crisis have on our economy? Other international bodies, other countries, are making their impact predictions public. Why doesn't the Government of Spain do it? Why don't you do it? Do you have any plans for the gradual return to normal? France has it and has made it public, with dates and by productive sectors. Why don't you do it? Do you not realize that your way of acting, as I have already told you, generates more insecurity than trust and more doubts than certainties? How long will the period of descalation last? How much do they estimate GDP will fall by 2020? And in the year 2021? How much do you think we're going to close the government deficit this year? And the public debt, how much do you think you're going to raise, Mrs. Calviño? [[The lady]] You will have to have some foresight that can facilitate us, because so far we do not know it. What measures are they thinking of reversing this situation when the health crisis has passed? We haven't heard any of them. What about the job, Mrs. Calviño? What are your estimates?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u139	Mr. De Olano, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u140	I'm finishing up. The IMF believes that the unemployment rate will rise by 50% this year, 2020, and will drop slightly in 2021. What's your prediction? I know it's a lot of questions, but they all have to be asked by you. They have to have some foresight, be it realistic or not. Well, tell us about it. Today you have the opportunity to answer these questions and, if we are lucky, you can even give us some clues about what they want to do for the future. Mrs Calviño, loyalty demands truth on both sides, but you have become accustomed to lying a lot, and that in these circumstances becomes unbearable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u141	Thank you, Mr. De Olano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u142	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, as I explained in the previous question, the absolute priority of our Government is to overcome the health crisis as soon as possible, while protecting the productive and entrepreneurial fabric, as well as the employment and income of workers, in order to have a solid basis on which to build the country's recovery. All the measures we have been taking during these weeks have been aimed at that triple objective and have been guided by the principles of prudence, accountability, transparency and balance. I have had the opportunity, as I explained a moment ago, to detail them in this very rostrum and, on the other hand, to obtain the support of the House for being appropriate, proportionate and responsive to the needs of our country. At all times we have followed the indications of health experts and international bodies, both in the support measures of enterprises, self-employed persons, workers and families, and in the measures of confinement, social distancing and reduction of mobility. So improvisation and incoherence, none; agility and determination to respond to changing circumstances, all. Indeed, the justification for the strict measures to reduce citizens' mobility lies precisely in the need to contain the spread of the epidemic, which, as we have seen, is widespread throughout the world. In the absence of pharmacological instruments, the vast majority of countries affected by the epidemic - I would say that all at one time or another - have resorted to similar measures of containment or social disintegration with greater or lesser intensity, with greater or lesser speed. Spain is one of the countries that has addressed these measures before in international comparison. The data show that it is a successful strategy, as the drastic reduction in mobility is leading to an important and positive result in controlling the spread of the virus. In fact, following the Royal Decree-Law of alarm and the strengthening of measures of health containment, especially during last week, we have observed a significant drop in the rate of infection and in the two weeks of reinforced confinement the effects have been even more relevant. Interweek mobility has been reduced to levels similar to that of the previous weekends and we have reached a minimum of 10% mobility during the holidays of Holy Week, the epidemic figures have shown a clear downward trend and, as the Minister of Health has indicated - and showing all possible cautions - I do not think it is unreasonable to say that we have doubled the incidence curve of coronavirus, in the light of the current indicators of reproduction and contagion. You said you didn't. I say, don't you? So, how? Because these are the measures being addressed in all countries and we see that they are having a positive impact on disease control. In these circumstances, since Monday we have returned to the situation of confinement before the two weeks of reinforced containment and have acted on the basis of the forecasts of evolution and the views of the epidemiological experts, as I have pointed out. That does not mean that we are at all in the same situation as we were at the time, especially because these two weeks have given companies and workers scope to adapt their behaviour to the new reality, developing the necessary protocols in the different sectors and companies to ensure maximum safety for those who have to go to their jobs. I think this is very important, because we do not have to send a message of insecurity to the workers; quite the contrary. What I have seen is an enormous responsibility on the part of trade union representatives and business representatives to strengthen the safety and health protection of all those who have to participate in the labour market, and our recommendations have been reinforced with regard to those most vulnerable groups, who will not have to physically go to their place of work and stay at home. In addition, awareness-raising campaigns have been launched and significant work on the sharing of protection elements has begun. In this regard, I would like once again to thank the cooperation of large companies, small companies and representatives of the social partners, who play a fundamental role in the vertebration of our country, as we are seeing in this exceptional situation; talking to them, talking to them, coordinating with them, right? So, how? Obviously, Your Honor, all these effective measures to combat the health crisis to contain the epidemic have a negative impact on economic activity and this does not surprise us. If at first the means of containment had a limited impact on some sectors, such as tourism, we were able to maintain a positive overall economic tone, as I said, until the end of February, even until mid-March, there was no significant macroeconomic impact, even on the labour market. However, the declaration of the state of alarm and the strengthening of the restrictions of movement brought with them a fall in production and employment with a significant macroeconomic impact, especially following the closure of some sectors of activity with great weight in the supply of our country, such as retail trade, hospitality or restoration. It is a process that affects all countries, but it has a special impact on ours, given the significant weight of these activities in our gross domestic product. The final, total consequences are difficult to estimate due to the high degree of uncertainty in which we manage and that the impact is exponential - I think you said it yourself -; just as the virus extends exponentially, the impact also increases exponentially with the number of weeks in which we are in this extraordinary situation. That is why, because of the enormous uncertainty in which we find ourselves, from the very first moment I said that the forecasts had to be taken with great prudence, because at first it seemed to me that they were too optimistic as they predicted an unsignificant impact. Please quote me correctly with the entire quote. I have always called for extreme prudence with different predictions. As an example of this high degree of uncertainty, the newly published consensus forecasts have an unprecedented range, as GDP growth by 2020 is estimated to be in the range of at least 1.8% to at least 15.5%. Within this range, the International Monetary Fund published yesterday a forecast of a fall in GDP of 8% this year, in line with the euro area average, and a rebound of 4.3% in 2021. All estimates, however provisional, point in a clear direction, and it is that this fall in gross domestic product, consistent with the extraordinary containment measures, will be transitory, and from the fourth quarter of this year we will move towards a major recovery in 2021, confirming that, as with previous epidemics in other parts of the world, it will be an intense but short-lived crisis. I insist that this is the unanimous view of all national and international analysts, I do not say, says the consensus of analysts, now, with a tremendously broad range. Here I do not share your call to give a number, whether realistic or not; in times of great uncertainty I prefer to exaggerate prudence, respond with agility and determination to what comes to us every day, try to anticipate how we are going to make the exit and not devote much effort in giving figures that perhaps do not correspond to the total final impact. However, the way in which we act from the public authorities, mobilizing national and Community resources, coordinating budgetary, monetary, financial and structural policies to tackle the pandemic and address the subsequent recovery, is key to achieving this exit forecast from the fourth quarter. In fact, this is also recommended by the International Monetary Fund, acting in the way that the Spanish Government is doing, strengthening resources in the health field, limiting the impact on economic activity, implementing the necessary policies to achieve a rapid normalization of the situation after overcoming the health crisis. In fact, the International Monetary Fund stresses that Spain is among the countries that are offering a stronger and faster fiscal response to this crisis and that it is among those that have addressed more ambitious measures to protect vulnerable groups, something fundamental in this situation. I am not going to list the measures again, I have already had the opportunity to do so in the previous inquiry, but I do think it is very important to continue to address the crisis in this threefold area, health, economic and social, and I hope you will tell me: yes, and share this threefold vector of action. The unprecedented budgetary response in the recent history of our country that we are giving, up to the circumstances and in line with what other European countries are doing, will undoubtedly have a budgetary impact from the point of view of the deficit and from the point of view of the public debt. Many of these measures are going to be extended beyond the state of alarm and, in addition, automatic stabilisers, the fall in tax revenues and the increase in the costs necessary, among other things, to protect workers will come into play. Yes, Mr De Olano, it seems to me very important to protect workers in this exceptional situation. That is why it will be so important to take decisions with prudence, responsibility, ambition and to strengthen the role of the public sector, which I believe is one of the great lessons that we can already draw from this crisis at this stage, as I have had occasion to point out. The budgetary impact is not exclusive to Spain, it is going to be given in all our European partners, it is going to be given in all countries, worldwide. All are taking steps that will increase their public deficit and public debt. That is why the European Commission, the European bodies, have made the rules of budgetary discipline more flexible. These are positive measures, but they are not enough, because this is a global crisis and we have to give a common, at least European, response. We are also working on this front, and I hope, Mr De Olano, that you will tell me that you share this objective of seeking a common response at Community level. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is acting cautiously, responsibly, transparently, guided by the evolution of the pandemic, by the criteria of experts, of international bodies, in a very complicated environment, in which very difficult decisions must be made to achieve the delicate balance between the containment of contagion, which is our absolute priority, as it cannot otherwise be, and the protection of the productive fabric and employment. I am sure that, in the meantime, it shares these objectives. That is why I urge you to move together in this direction, because I believe that is what the Spaniards expect and what Spain deserves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u143	Thank you very much, Madam Third Vice-President. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Calviño, you have forgotten to answer the question about national mourning. You see, Mrs. Calviño, I have to insist that you don't. You tell me there was no data to say that in Spain we weren't doing very well, and you've breast-feeded again. I tell you that failing to meet the public deficit by 25%, not to reach the growth rates that had been planned, despite having lowered them three times in six months, and that almost 250 000 jobs were destroyed in January, are indicators that should at least alert a minister of the economy. I also regret your lack of concreteness in your responses. I've asked you multiple questions that you haven't answered. He said yes, they're going to have a budgetary impact. Man, Madam Vice President, don't fool us! Why does France do its predictions? Why is the IMF able to do it? Why is the CEO able to do it? Why is BBVA able to do it? However, the Government of Spain refuses. And you boast of transparency, Minister! I insist: so no, so it is impossible, minister; so it is impossible. This lack of concreteness, as far as the future is concerned, confirms my worst wishes. You lack a plan to get out of the crisis. You have come up here to say that the fiscal response of the Spanish Government is among the most ambitious in Europe. In France this response amounts to 23% of GDP, in Germany 60% of GDP and we remain at a modest 13%; not only are we not the most ambitious, but we are less than half that of France and five times less than the Federal Republic of Germany, Minister. So don't breastfeed, do me a favor, be a little humble and tell us the truth. I do not ask Mr. Sánchez, because it would be preaching in the desert, I ask you. Tell the truth. Do not come here to boast of transparency and then hide absolutely all the data. Mrs Calviño, between the story and the job, you fight for the job and forget about the story. Between the story and the maintenance of the productive tissue, choose the second and give up the story. You may not temporarily become the most famous minister, but I assure you that the Spaniards will thank you and you will have fulfilled with loyalty the promise made to your majesty the king, which is to serve your country loyally. My parliamentary group supported it in the first steps they took, Decrees 6, 7 and 8. It was necessary to approve them; they were clearly insufficient and were late, but they were well on their way. Insufficient; I already told him about the perrics 200 million euros for the whole Spanish tourism sector; the line of endorsements, which pompously announced as the greatest mobilization of public money in history - something that is not true once again nor was accompanied by a contingency plan for the ICO - and it turns out that a month later only a number of frankly insufficient applications have been approved. We cannot say the same about Royal Decrees 9 and 10 - we do not support them - in which a change of strategy is clearly seen. From there - I told you before - you began to let the economic policy of this country be in the hands of the Communists of Podemos, and that, Mrs Calviño, believe me that I am deeply sorry, it hurts me and I worry you can't imagine how much. Mrs Calviño, you are the Economic Vice-President of the Government and therefore responsible for your economic policy, do not allow it to fall into the networks of impoverishing communism; give the battle in that Council of Ministers, do not let it be won by Podemos. I told him that Decrees 9 and 10 have made a twist that endangers our product fabric. The change in the criterion on the duration of ERTs by the State undoubtedly condemns thousands and thousands of companies, which will be engaged in the closure; SMEs and self-employed will have to bear burdens that, I fear, will - as I said - be involved in the closure. They're in time to reverse it. We haven't warned you, Mrs. Calviño. But why would that change of mind with the ERTEs in a matter of days? Come up here, please, and explain it to us, as they presume transparency. Mrs Calviño, pay attention to the opposition; we have put forward dozens of proposals for law and not law, we have experience, we know how to manage, we have managed to get Spain out of the worst economic crises and we are only guided by the vocation of service to our country. Listen more to Mr Casado and less to Mr Iglesias, the Spanish will thank him. And let me finish with a sentence from my spokesman, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, written in an opinion article published this weekend: Don't give it all to an impossible rescue of the European Union; we are a great country, with entrepreneurial ranks, with talented young people and with autonomous people who know how to suffer, you just have to believe in them, they only have to believe in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u145	Thank you, Mr. De Olano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. To conclude the debate, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u146	Thank you very much, President. Three fundamental ideas to answer Mr Olano. As I said in my first speech, the protection of the health and life of citizens is the number one priority for our Government. Each of the steps we are taking is guided by this fundamental goal. As the President of the Government said this morning, we feel the dead as our own. If all citizens are suffering from this situation, they suffer the pain of their fellow citizens, imagine us, that we are in a position of responsibility and that we face this situation trying to find the best answers to deal with this emergency. I pay a daily tribute in all my speeches to all the workers, not just the health workers, to all those who are making this country stop, to the workers, to the entrepreneurs, to all the citizens. I think this is what we have to do right now, support, support and support. There will be time for mourning. I believe that feelings do not depend on the colour of the tie and that if anything is demonstrating this government is its enormous empathy, its enormous understanding, its solidarity with society as a whole. This would be my second idea. If solidarity and dialogue were the fundamental principles and values of our Government before this epidemic, it is even more the sign of identity at this very delicate moment. There is no improvisation, there is a response to changing circumstances, there is an approach with different scenarios, and we will have to talk about recovery and we will have to deal with those sectors that are most affected, as I pointed out earlier, because this crisis strikes all people without taking care of their language, their race, their circumstances, their borders, but it affects differently the different economies, and it particularly affects those sectors that are important for our country's gross domestic product, so we will have to support such important sectors as tourism, restoration, leisure or culture. We are already looking after them and we will continue to look after them in the coming months. We are already doing an analysis exercise with experts of different characteristics, with a multidisciplinary group, to see how this descalation has to be done and the President of the Government has called all the political forces, the social actors, with whom I constantly see myself, the autonomous communities, the public administrations, for this great agreement of social and economic reconstruction of Spain, because we will need to continue all supporting, rowing in the same direction to get together from this dramatic situation in the best possible way. Third and final reflection. I do not intend to enter into your constant provocations, which have accompanied me in the last twenty-two months since I came to the Government, although I am going to share a personal reflection with you, and it is that I have had more than thirty years of professional experience, I have always had very difficult jobs and in the face of difficulties I have observed that there are three types of attitudes: those that hide to see if it happens, those who sit down to criticize what is done and those who take a step forward and put all their energy in seeking solutions. I've always been in this third group. [[Applauds]] I'm holding hands with them again so they can decide which group they want to be in and that this time they are on the right side of the story. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u147	Thank you, Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-04-15-CD200415.u148	We turn to the point concerning the request of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and Republican for the creation of a commission of inquiry concerning the accident of flight JK 5022 from Spanair. As agreed at the Board of Spokespersons, there is no previous debate. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] The establishment of the Commission of Inquiry is therefore approved. The meeting rose. It was 12 and 40 minutes from noon.
