ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the attendance, at our own request, of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies to report on the extraordinary European Council held on 23 April, to report on the ordinary European Council held on 19 June, as well as on the extraordinary European Council held on 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 July 2020. To report on the European Councils, the President of the Government has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. These days we have experienced facts that will be remembered by future generations for the pain of the loss and sacrifice of the population and also for the height of sight in the response. We have taken a step further in the success story of our common project, which is the European Union, and that is why I would like - although not being orthodox - to advance the conclusion on the European agreement, before describing its gestation and its details. After all, your ladies and gentlemen know what the resolution is: hope has overcome fear, Europe has found its place. When Europe has been faced with the greatest challenge in its history over the last hundred years, Europe has been able to respond. And, for its part, when Spain proposed a Marshall Plan to address this pandemic calamity - the greatest calamity in the last century - Europe approved a Marshall Plan. I therefore compare it, ladies and gentlemen, to give an account of the European Councils of 23 April, 19 June and the most recent one, held from 17 to 21 July - as the President has pointed out - whose conclusions finally approved the package of support for recovery in the face of the economic and social consequences of COVID-19, which has been called the Next Generation of the European Union. And, on the other hand, I will also report on the European Council's proposal, pending its adoption in the European Parliament, which is the multiannual financial framework for the financial period 2021-2027. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start by looking back. It seems necessary to me, since since the beginning of 2020 the history of humanity is being written at a dizzying speed. It is important, therefore, to pause to reflect, even for a few moments; it is necessary to analyze with historical perspective what are the answers to certain circumstances, especially at times when the world is changing in such a dizzying way. This year 2020 is one of those moments, it is a turning point, and it is worth highlighting through the three lessons that contextualize the importance for Spain and Europe of the agreement reached at the July Council. First of all, from this rostrum I have referred in recent months to a situation very similar to that of the Second World War; it was the devastation that it left behind that caused the European States to work together for a common future, for peace, and in this context was born what we knew as the Marshall Plan, to which I also referred on other occasions and to which Spain unfortunately could not benefit as a result of the affinity of the Franco dictatorship with the Nazi regime. It is precisely in order to avoid a new war that the ECSC was created in 1951, and from then on this community of European States began to form, which is still protecting us today. The transformations, which have been many in the history of the European Union, are there, but the decisive changes have been few and very far-reaching. Ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Maastrich of 1992, by which it was officially born in the European Union, the launch of the single market, the launch of the single currency, I would also say even the integration of Spain and Portugal into the European Union, are perhaps the only milestones comparable to what happened just ten days ago in Brussels. Europe did not have the right response to the 2008 Great Recession and has had another very different response to the 2020 Great Pandemic. The 2008 was a setback for Europe; the 2020, ladies and gentlemen, has been a step forward and it is fair to acknowledge it. The 2008 showed how the hidden success failed, and the 2020 thing we must achieve among all that is an absolute success. Therefore, the first lesson I would like to share with you is to remember the Treaty of Lisbon of 2007 - the last to date - which establishes the need and duty of the European Union to work together in favour of public health. One of its articles reads, and I quote: The European Parliament and the European Council may also adopt incentive measures to protect and improve human health and, in particular, to combat cross-border pandemics. The first lesson has therefore been to return to being who we are, to be Europe so that Europe protects Europe, to believe again in the Union and in the principle of reciprocity, united; to bet on continuing to write the history of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, from our identity in the world, gathering the witness of those States that more than seventy years ago joined together to overcome the devastation of the Second World War. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, let me look at another historic event that has taken place in recent years. In the 2009 German federal elections, the Alliance for Germany ultra-right party obtained 0.1% of the vote; in the last elections, in 2017, it obtained around 12%. In the Italian parliamentary elections of 2008, the ultra-right did not reach 10% of the vote, located also in a specific area of the Italian country, in the north; in the elections of 2018, the North Salvini League obtained 17% of the vote throughout the country and soon after it became 34% in the vote estimate. In the 2012 French presidential elections, the National Front, which already had some roots in French politics, obtained a little more than 17% of the votes and was appalled by the second round; in the 2017 elections, however, the leader of the National Front managed to compete for the second round and reached 34% of the votes. In Sweden, the ultra-right had only 1.5% of the votes in the 2007 elections; it entered the Swedish Parliament for the first time in 2010 with 5.7% of the votes and in 2018 it was the third political force, with almost 18% of the votes in that country. In Spain, to finish this review without talking about other significant countries such as Holland and also Austria, the ultra-right parties did not reach even 2 tenths of a percentage in 2008. Even in 2015, the ultra-right, in its first general elections, obtained less than 60,000 votes in our country; in the last elections, in November last year, it became the third national political force, with 15% of the votes. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]] The truth is that it is appreciated that they recognize that they are the far right of this country. [[Applauds]] This disturbing development, ladies and gentlemen, undoubtedly responds to a number of complex reasons, but there is no doubt that one of the main reasons has been the increase in inequalities, social exclusion and, consequently, the political exclusion and abandonment that citizens have felt by the national and European institutions in the last decade. There was a brutal economic crisis in 2008 and the response from the institutions was not adequate. Europe turned its back on citizens, advocated austerity precisely when we needed expansionary policies and only managed to open painful wounds in the most vulnerable. In this decade, radical nationalism returned to Europe and the far right also returned to Europe, because Europe was wrong. In 2020, with the dramatic crisis created by the pandemic, Europe could not make a mistake again, it could not abandon citizens again, and it did not; it could not let the most vulnerable fall again, and it did not. And I think this is the political message that we have transferred all the leaders in July. The second lesson is therefore the following: in a great crisis like 2008 a policy was made that did not think about people, but about the economic macrostructure, and when politics forgets people, people forget politics. Thirdly, and to conclude this introduction, ladies and gentlemen, allow me once again to look back, this time only a few months, when the legislature began, in the investiture speech. This Government had a country project based on different crucial transformations, we said then. As you will see, the pandemic has not changed its priorities, but, on the contrary, it has strengthened and consolidated them by aligning our political agenda for transformations with the European Union's political agenda for transformations. The first is the digitization of the economy. We have seen in these months how digitization has become essential - I would say - to keep in touch with the world, and here are the data from the EPA and the number of millions of workers who did so via telework. Digitization has therefore become essential to keep us in touch with the world; to maintain, as I said before, productive activity through teleworking and, even, to continue the educational activity of our children, with all the difficulties, with all the weaknesses that we have seen in the educational system and, consequently, with all the will to transform and guarantee equal opportunities also to our children and girls. Alongside this first transformation, the digitization of our economy, we have the second, which is the ecological transition. For the coronavirus we will find a vaccine - and I hope it will be soon, ladies and gentlemen - but for the climate disaster there will be no vaccine. All we have to do is stop it and we are in time to do so, also generating health, social welfare and a large number of high-quality jobs. The third has to do with equality between men and women. Women have again been in this pandemic, together with young people, the most harmed, despite - or precisely because - having burdened them with most of the care tasks. We need gender equality now. And the fourth is cohesion. Social cohesion must also be combined with territorial cohesion. We do not want to see insurmountable gaps between different groups: privileged and vulnerable, between urban and rural areas; we do not want to see insurmountable gaps between the autonomous communities. The country project that we had at the beginning of the legislature is the same one that we have today - we reaffirm it, we claim it - and in it we have been working, moreover, for more than two years, before with a previous monocolor government, today with a progressive government. It is Spain that we deserve, for which we have fought despite being hit by a pandemic. Despite an unprecedented global crisis, our diagnosis, ladies and gentlemen, was the right one and our objectives have not moved; our illusion, if I may, is even greater than before the pandemic. Therefore, the third lesson I would like to share with you is that we already have a path to go; what Europe is asking us is the same thing that we have been asking ourselves since the change of government, after the motion of censure. What Europe is asking for is the Spain we want, it is the Spain we believe in. A Spain with gender equality, a Spain with social and territorial cohesion, a Spain that will bet decisively on the ecological and digital transition. In short, a single purpose is to restore growth, create jobs, create businesses, create jobs and make that job, ladies and gentlemen, a decent job, a stable job. Ladies and gentlemen, with this last Council we have closed a period of many months of negotiations that began before the health crisis broke out, with the European Council on 20 and 21 February. There, as you will recall, an agreement was not reached within the multiannual financial framework. The process that has led us from that disagreement to the current consensus has, of course, been marked by the pandemic's health emergency, which generated new needs and which, as I said earlier, accentuated others, but also by a constant exchange of information on the positions of each of the Member States. In short, there has been an incessant negotiation. The closure of this period last week I believe that it is - honestly I say - a great success for those of us who believe in the European Union, both because of the very dynamics that it generates on the European continent and because of the horizon of hope that it provokes and creates in our country millions and millions of citizens. The conclusion has been very positive, ladies and gentlemen. We have learned lessons, but it is also very important to highlight a question that I would like to share with you: how did we get here? I will try to summarize the process step by step. Firstly, the European Council of 23 April. Let me refer to this Council, which was, by the way, the fourth videoconference of Heads of State and Government during the pandemic and which marked a turning point. That was the first of several European Councils that have transformed Europe. There were no conclusions on an informal basis; the President of the Council summarized our discussions orally, which does not mean that any relevant decisions were not taken, as they were then taken and I am going to set them out. We come to it with the proposal of this country, of Spain, and also of other countries to provide a European response consistent with and proportional to the gravity of the situation arising from the health emergency. The first decision was to endorse the Eurogroup agreement of 9 April to launch what we call the triple safety net, with EUR 540 million, for the protection, first of all, of workers through the Unemployment Reinsurance Fund. Secondly, the protection of companies with the guarantees of the European Investment Bank and, thirdly, assistance to Member States in the health response through non-conditional access, as we discussed in previous appearances, to the European Stability Mechanism. This was a preliminary achievement that was very necessary at the time to give us stability in the medium and in the long term, to equip us with space and to continue negotiations on the recovery package and the multiannual financial framework. This security network has been key to the stability of the euro area in the first months of this year - at times, by the way, of greater uncertainty and of greater impact of the pandemic on the continent - and it has also been the first sign of the willingness of all European partners to go together on the path of the crisis and to do so without leaving anyone behind. The usefulness of the Reinsurance Fund mechanism, the SURE mechanism, is demonstrated by the fact that - look! - there are now eighteen Member States that have applied for this Reinsurance Fund. There is no doubt that Spain is also going to accept it because, as a result, we will be able to finance the temporary employment regulation dossiers which are currently protecting a million workers in our country. The second decision taken at that European Council in April was to persevere in European coordination efforts against the pandemic. A joint road map was welcomed by the Presidents of the Commission and the European Council for de-escalation and also for economic recovery. This road map had been the result of an express request from the European Council on 26 March. I had four points I'd like to share with you. Firstly, progress in the single market - because, of course, this pandemic has put at risk the single market - through a strong industrial strategy that would include the green pact, the digital transition and the strategic autonomy of the European Union, resulting from what has happened to the pandemic. Secondly, an unprecedented investment effort anchored in the new multiannual financial framework. Thirdly, global action that pays particular attention to the European neighbourhood and helps the most vulnerable, in short, does not lose sight of the European Union's external solidarity with those countries that are suffering the consequences of the pandemic. And fourthly, a governance system that was operational. Four points that, in turn, became the basis of the discussion on a possible Recovery Fund that was then an entelequia, somewhat abstract, and today is already a reality. The President of the Council, Mr Michel, summarized the first consensus on this debate in his appearance after the European Council by videoconference. The fund had to be - and I quote it textually - of sufficient magnitude, aimed at the sectors and geographical areas most affected in Europe and dedicated to meeting the needs of this unprecedented crisis. All these objectives, ladies and gentlemen, have been met with the agreement reached in the morning of 22 July, as I will mention later. From that moment on, a complex negotiation was opened in April, which lasted for months and culminated in this last Council, to which I shall refer later. But let me stop earlier at that initial moment of the discussion, because complicated negotiations are never resolved only at a last minute; there is a continuous work, a thorough work that allows us to frustrate the outcome. There are two aspects of the agreement that we think are obvious today, but at that time, at that Council on 23 April, they were not. We came to the European Council in July with the conviction that the recovery fund should be an ambitious fund, because otherwise it would serve nothing; rather, it would not serve enough given the scale of the crisis ahead. But it was in April when that idea opened up, because at that time there were all kinds of reticences. It was at that April meeting that the idea was validated that the fund was largely based on direct transfers and linked to the multi-year financial framework that had been discussed shortly before the pandemic with quite different positions. Therefore, there is a moment that is important to remember. Long before that Council, barely declared the state of alarm on 14 March in our country, Spain, together with other European countries, issued a first message: we called for a European Marshall Plan on 23 March. After the agreement of 21 July, one analyst recalled that it was Spain that did most in those spring weeks for those ideas to end up settling down. It was Spain that first made the request for a new Marshall plan in response to the crisis of COVID-19 and it was Spain that, together with Italy and seven other Member States, sent the institutions an open letter calling for - and I quote textually - a common debt instrument in the face of the economic emergency. As you know, mutual debt instruments have historically been rejected within the European Union. At that time, the Member States continued to divide themselves between those who favoured and those who opposed debt-sharing. I can assure you, from humility, that Spain's position was decisive in the final outcome of those negotiations. [[Applauds]] Following that first letter, the formal proposal of the Government of Spain of 19 April addressed to the institutions and other Member States was the first that openly raised transfers within the budgetary framework and allowed for agreement to be reached between the groups which were favourable and unfavourable to debt-sharing. At that time we set out the path by which the Franco-German proposal and that of the European Commission would end up. At that European Council on 23 April this government also called for the future fund to be quickly agreed; that was the mandate for the Commission that came out of there. They will agree with me that, for the usual European parameters, making a proposal on 23 April and having it unanimously adopted three months later is a collective success that we welcome. Europe has not only decided well, but has decided quickly. Finally, in that April Council, I also stressed the urgency of agreeing on a multiannual financial framework which is very important to our country and which has been blocked for months. That budget is already on its way in the European Parliament. That Council of 23 April was, in short, ladies and gentlemen, decisive in the direction of subsequent agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to devote a few minutes to the European Council on 19 June, which was also held by videoconference. Following the Council's mandate in April to which I have just referred, on 27 May the European Commission presented a proposal; the June Council was the first meeting at which all European leaders addressed the European Commission's proposal. We had for the first time a draft recovery plan, the one called the New Generation European Union, and the new proposal for the multiannual financial framework by the Commission 2021-2027, in which this recovery plan was inserted. As you know, the Commission's proposal consisted of a recovery fund of EUR 750 billion consisting of 500 billion transfers and 250 billion loans, and for this the Commission would, for the first time in its history, go to financing these programmes on the markets. All this within the framework of a new European budget amounting to EUR 1.1 billion, thus adding to the EUR 1.85 billion package. I would like to recall that the final agreement reached amounts to EUR 1.82 billion, i.e. almost the same overall figure as proposed by the European Commission at the time. There have been small adjustments, but there have been no cuts. On the way to this European Council in June and during the weeks leading up to the meeting, we had very frequent talks from the Spanish Government with a number of European leaders to exchange views, and I was able to see what was then found at the European Council in July: that negotiations to reach an agreement before the summer were going to be long, very difficult, very complex, but that success could be achieved. Therefore, the Spanish position in that Council was, as it has always been since the beginning of this health, economic and social crisis, a constructive and empathetic position. Spain has tried to understand, from the firmness and conviction of its positions, the different and legitimate positions of the rest of the Member States and has always been willing to dialogue to exhaustion in order to reach agreements. That has been the role of this government since the beginning of the pandemic: ambitious in objectives and firm in our most essential, pro-European and proactive objectives. We have never doubted Europe's will, we have never given up Europe's success; we have defended Spain's interests, but we have also defended what we believed to be the solutions for all the citizens of the European continent. In this respect, Spain welcomed the proposal put forward by the Commission - it has been made public, you know - as it seemed to us to be a step in the right direction. However, our desire to reach an agreement as soon as possible with those who showed more reluctance could not go beyond diluting our objectives; that is, we were not going to give up a good agreement to reach a quick agreement. It's a temptation that you can have in a hurry, but it's always a bad decision to fall into it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have maintained a clear and firm claim to defend our already well-known priorities: an ambitious fund consisting mainly of transfers and not loans and intended for those regions and sectors most affected by the health emergency. We also express our disagreement with the architecture of the European budget as it was then designed by the Commission, which was also transferred by the President of the Council, since it could be even more favourable for Spain in terms of both cohesion and common agricultural policy. And, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this constructive Spanish criticism, which we have maintained, has been shared by a large number of countries. The European Council noted that there was a consensus among the vast majority of Member States on the following aspects that I would like to share with you. Firstly, the urgency of ambitious, decisive, targeted European action and, above all, based on transfers and not on appropriations. Secondly, it was the European Commission as a Community government, as a collective government, that obtained the financing of markets, that is, the mutualisation of debt. Thirdly, that the effort should focus on the sectors and geographical areas most affected by the pandemic. Fourth, that the recovery plan be integrated into the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. Finally, let us seize this opportunity to accelerate the two major transitions that we all have in mind, namely the digital transition and the green transition. Regrettably, beyond this basic consensus that we had all the Member States, the positions did not move significantly at that European Council, so a small number of countries, the so-called frugal ones, continued to show serious reluctance to the Commission's proposal and questioned the possibility of reaching an agreement before the summer. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, the issues in which there were very important differences were four: firstly, the size and duration of the recovery plan; secondly, the way in which transfers and loans were distributed; thirdly, the conditionality and governance mechanism of this new instrument, the Recovery Fund, and fourthly, the size and content of the multiannual financial framework. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council ended in that month of June with the mandate of the President of the Council, Mr Michel, to prepare a new negotiating box that would be on the table before the European Council scheduled for 17 and 18 June, and in that Council - which lasted two more days, as you all know - all these differences, as you can imagine, should be resolved nothing less. We entered fully into the European Council from 17 to 21 June. A week before that Council, on Friday 10 June, the President of the Council presented this negotiating box to the public and also to the Member States. It essentially maintained the large figures and structure of the European Commission's proposal. With regard to the Recovery Fund, it maintained EUR 750 billion, retained EUR 500 billion in transfers and also contained some elements that were less favourable to our country. Firstly, a reduction in the financial framework from EUR 1.1 trillion to EUR 1.074 trillion; it also proposed a change in the criteria for allocating the recovery mechanism; an increase of around EUR 10 billion and the consolidation of the compensation for five countries; and a two-year advance, to 2026, of the repayments of the debt of the Recovery Fund. With this negotiating box we arrived, ladies and gentlemen, at the July Council. That Council still began from very distant positions, and not a few analysts and also the media predicted that there was a very narrow, very narrow margin for the agreement. I've had the opportunity to see it myself. In the previous weeks, as you know, on 17 July I held a round of meetings, some in Madrid, with countries with which we had an affinity in terms of the objectives, for example, with the Italian Prime Minister, also with capitals with which we shared those objectives, such as Lisbon, Berlin and Paris, but, of course, also with countries with a distance in terms of the objectives and mechanisms to be radically different from those proposed from Spain, such as the Dutch Government or the Swedish Government. And yes, it is true that the positions seemed to be away because they were clearly away, the declarations of the countries called frugal encouraged a refusal to relax their position at that time and many, as I told them, gave way to the loss of the summit. But everything must not be lost when there is so much to be won; we were, in my opinion, judging ourselves from the meaning of Europe and we were judging ourselves from the original sense of birth of Europe. And if I redoubled my contacts at that juncture, if I decided to sit down and talk to everyone, socialist, popular, liberal, from the north and south, it was because Europe and Spain couldn't afford a failure, it was because Europe needed Europe at this very critical moment. Some of you will recall that at the beginning of April I wrote an article that was published in various European media and defended the need for a common, solidarity-based and unprecedented effort in the European Union to tackle this crisis. The article was entitled "Europe Plays It". Well, three months later we can say that Europe has won that game. At the beginning of the European Council, no one took it for granted, but that was the case. And no, it hasn't been easy at all, ladies and gentlemen. This plan is a milestone for both Spain and Europe; it is an economic milestone, a social milestone, because for the first time the Union is taking on a major debt collectively to channel it through transfer-based programmes, deferring its repayment over time and taking a qualitative leap towards meeting an unprecedented challenge over the past 70 years. But it is also a political milestone, ladies and gentlemen, because we have been able to overcome positions that are very found, far away on the political spectrum. I myself have sat for four days with political leaders who have nothing to do with my thinking or my understanding of Europe, but we have achieved a point of balance and a point of agreement; and it is also, by the way, something I would like to appeal to in this House. [[Applauds]] The European Council, which began at 10 a.m. on Friday 17 July, should have ended on Saturday 18 July. However, as a result of these difficulties, of the complexity of the negotiations and also - to be said - of the commitment of everyone, of all the countries to reach an agreement, it ended up extending until 6 a.m. last Tuesday, 21 July, staying very few minutes away from overcoming the record of the longest European summit in history, which was that of Nice in December 2000. These five days of confinement, ladies and gentlemen, have been exhausting, but they have been worth it. Europe is worth it, ladies and gentlemen, and Spain deserves all the effort and all the impetus. The Spaniards deserved us to be up to it and Europe has been up to it. [[Applauds]] I enter the main elements of the agreement below. Despite the extreme inquisition of positions as you can imagine, these elements have allowed us to maintain the main - I will call them that - objectives or challenges that we had in this negotiation. Firstly, I would like to refer to the new generation instrument of the European Union, the fund specifically devoted to economic recovery in the fight against COVID-19. Against the expectations of many, we have managed to maintain the volume of EUR 750 billion. For Spain, the size of EUR 750 billion, consisting mainly of transfers, was the minimum size which, together with the package described before EUR 540 billion agreed in the Eurogroup and also the interventions of the European Central Bank - which I think is worth stressing - made it possible to respond effectively to the magnitude of the crisis ahead. However, we were aware that this was a very difficult objective to achieve before a group of countries that opposed any kind of transfers. Not that they were opposed to 300 billion euros in transfers, but they wanted zero euros in transfers. The final objective of EUR 750 billion is summarised as EUR 390 billion in transfers and EUR 360 billion in loans, which, in addition to the multiannual financial framework of EUR 1,074 billion, leads to a total figure - as I mentioned earlier in my speech - above EUR 1.8 billion; therefore, very close to the EUR 2 billion requested by the European Parliament to resolve the crisis in COVID. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is an ambitious agreement, I would say that without precedent, the figures are enormous, but it is an ambitious agreement, given the resistance of many Member States to adopt such policies. Specifically, EUR 750 billion of the fund amounts to 60% of Spain's GDP in 2019 and 4.6% of European GDP in the same period. As I have said on other occasions, this is a Marshall plan that allows us to face with solid support the difficult task ahead, the enormous, hard and complex task ahead of us of economic and social recovery in our continent and our country, a recovery that has just begun, after a few very difficult months in all areas, as we have seen yesterday in the EPA data, and whose negative consequences continue to have their effects. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to a tool to reflect our economy, the linking of these funds to the financial framework and its structure - of which I will now give you more details - wants to be much more than a medicine to cure the enormous wound caused by the virus. And it seems to me that it is also important to keep this in mind in view of the management and the definition of the objectives that we have ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an opportunity, I would say, in the face of an enormous opportunity not only to resume the path of economic growth, but to do so on much stronger and much more sustainable pillars in order to achieve the objectives set by this Government and the majority of this House at the beginning of the parliamentary term and because the priorities of Europe are also Spain's priorities. Our horizon should not be to continue receiving aid because we are below the European average, ladies and gentlemen, but to contribute more. This is the goal that Spain has. We must therefore use these resources to be at the forefront of the Union's most advanced countries, with less unemployment, with more technical and higher-quality jobs, with more investment in education, vocational training, universities, science, research, development, innovation, more renewable energies and a more digitised economic environment; in short, to be stronger, more competitive, betting on the ecological transition, on the digital transition, on the fight against inequalities, specifically the gender inequality suffered by half of the Spanish population, on social cohesion and on the territorial connection, that is, so that no one remains behind, no person or territory in our country in this enormous task of reconstruction and transformation of our economy. [[Applauds]] These are the pillars, ladies and gentlemen, of the Recovery Fund. And by landing in the specific case of Spain, our country will have at its disposal, according to the agreed criteria of allocation, approximately 140 billion euros more than those that belong to us - and I would like to stress this for us to bear in mind - in the multiannual financial framework for the next six years. This amount amounts to 11% of our gross domestic product in 2019, so its potential for leveraging these transformations and relaunching growth in the medium term is more than significant. It opens up to us and to us, ladies and gentlemen, a historic opportunity that we must be able to seize. I would like to appeal in this House to seize this enormous opportunity to make a leap in competitiveness, prosperity and secure progress. Just as in the 1980s and 1990s a socialist executive also took advantage of the cohesion funds to modernize our country with the terrestrial rail transport network, I have no doubt that we will again take the opportunity to respond effectively to the new challenges ahead. In 1990, ladies and gentlemen, Spain did not have a single high-speed line in service. Today, Spain is a leader in Europe, according to several rankings, and is among the top five countries in the world at high speed, with more than 3000 kilometers in service and hundreds more under construction. Within a decade we should be able to say that Spain is also at the head of the digital economy, of the green economy, and that will mean that we have invested these funds well, that we have taken advantage of the opportunity that opens up for us over the next six years. As for the structure, the Recovery Fund will be channelled through two major instruments; then there are others that have to do with classic instruments of the Community budget, such as the rural development funds or the Horizon Programme. These two major instruments are, first of all, the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which will finally have, in aggregate terms, €672.5 billion at six years for distribution. Of that total, EUR 312.5 billion will be in transfers, of which EUR 59 billion will be earmarked for our country. It is, in short, the means that will enable us to implement everything I have said before, a national plan of transformations, reforms, investments for growth, for the renewal of our economy, for digital transformation, for ecological transformation. But it will also allow us to make profound improvements on such important issues as vocational training, education, research or science, which has emerged as fundamental in times of crisis and also in times of non-crisis, and the reform of our productive fabric, infrastructure and social and territorial cohesion. The second instrument is the European Union programme. In this case, our country is also one of the main beneficiaries. It is endowed, in aggregate terms, with €47.5 billion, of which approximately €12.5 billion will correspond to Spain. The objective of this programme is to deal directly with the economic and social consequences of the COVID crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said in recent weeks about the new governance mechanism of this fund and also about the conditionality of these funds, so I think it is also important to clarify certain issues about the implementation and the requirements for receiving them. From the very beginning of the negotiation, ladies and gentlemen, Spain supported the need for supervision of the funds, as that would help speed up the necessary reforms of the Member States, and we insisted, yes, that it should be an agile process, allowing for the absorption of resources and the national appropriation of measures, without veto or imposition of any kind. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what has been agreed. The procedure is perfectly guided. Firstly, each State will submit investment and reform plans, drawn up on the basis of its national interests, but on the basis of criteria agreed between all Member States. These criteria give particular relevance to actions that contribute to the digital transition, to the green transition, to the improvement of education, to the improvement of human capital; measures, in short, that will encourage the growth of the economy in the long term, the resilience, therefore, and social inclusion, that is, ladies and gentlemen, our reform agenda, in full accordance with the development strategy envisaged by the European Union. It is a plan, ladies and gentlemen, in which the Spanish Government has already been working for several weeks in order to speed up the second step of this process, which is to present it to the Commission for evaluation before proceeding with its approval by the European Council. As regards conditionality in the disbursement of funds, it will be limited to meeting the goals and milestones of the plan drawn up by the Government and agreed with the European Commission. To make the agreement possible, the so-called emergency brake clause was introduced. This instrument simply means that one Member State can request - and must do so in a motivated manner - a political debate - and I stress this term, political - in the European Council if it considers that another country is flagrantly failing to meet the goals and reforms to which it had committed itself and agreed with the European Commission. But in no case - and I want to stress this so that there is no doubt - will be a need for unanimous decisions, and therefore there is no veto capacity. Finally, the Commission, on the basis of the majority vote of Ecofin, will proceed to the disbursements, as laid down in the procedure. The final agreement also strengthens the role of the European Council in overseeing the recovery fund as the highest political body, but without undermining - and this is something that we have defended in the Council's debate and negotiation - the important role of the Commission in not breaking the necessary institutional balance, which will ultimately assess the plans and compliance with the milestones for making disbursements. All this will allow something fundamental, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a huge challenge, and it is to absorb all these resources in six years; to absorb them, to manage them and to transform our economy. In the Government's view, the fundamental objective is to speed up the short six-year period so that aid can be approved and implemented as soon as possible, avoiding the possibility that no Member State unilaterally blocks the disbursement of aid. Ladies and gentlemen, the qualitative leap between 2019 and 2020 is total, absolute. Where there were rescues there is now a common fund with new resources for the whole of the European Union. Where austerity now existed, there are measures for economic and social recovery and for the transformation of our continent. Where there were troikas and 'black men', there is now a multilateral dialogue between Member States, which act jointly as partners and allies. I would not like to end without a reference to the financial framework, which is also the subject of important negotiations in the Council. Indeed, its endowment is somewhat lower than that desired by the countries that support a strong, ambitious Europe, including Spain. However, I would like to say that the agreed EUR 1,074 billion remains a solid figure, especially if we take into account that its real-scale power, accompanied by this recovery fund, is - as I said earlier - to EUR 1.8 billion. We can therefore conclude that the package as a whole is clearly positive for Spain and Europe. In this respect, I would like to make a very specific mention - because I know that the various parliamentary groups share the concern and the challenge facing our farmers and farmers - of the common agricultural policy. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, was committed to providing sufficient funds to our farmers, our farmers and the rural environment as a whole. This has been one of the negotiating obsessions - believe me - of Spain from the beginning of the process to the end, and let me tell you that also one of the most complicated and difficult struggles. The agri-food sector and the revitalization of the rural world are among the Government's priorities - I said in my investiture speech - not only among the objectives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, but also in a specific vice-presidency created for the demographic challenge. Their work during the confinement - I mean that of agro-industry - has been exemplary, has allowed citizens to be supplied with the necessary food, and their demands for greater justice in the prices of the sector are fully assumed by the Government - as you know - thanks to the agreements that we have reached with the agricultural organizations and also with the legislative amendments that we have brought and that we will bring to improve the transparency and the formation of prices of the sector. Finally, the European Union's Next Generation collects €7.5 billion for the common agricultural policy, and we have also achieved the goal we had set ourselves, which was to maintain the same amount in the CAP as a whole for direct aid to farmers, rural development measures and market measures that we previously had in the financial framework that we had just won. These are demands that we have had to defend in a political and budgetary context - as you can imagine, ladies and gentlemen - which are remarkably complicated, more complicated than then, logically aggravated by the pandemic. I therefore believe that we can conclude, honestly, that we have achieved the European support we deserve and sufficient to meet the economic, environmental and social sustainability challenges of our farmers and livestock farmers, which, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced will also represent a cause for satisfaction for all the political forces present in this House. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, negotiation is in democracy the only way to reach agreements, agreements which must always be aimed at the common good. The key lies in the proposals, in opposing ideas and in the attitude to address that path, and any conflict that arises well managed during the negotiation ends up being a source of growth and inspiration for all. Loyal negotiation is always able to improve particular proposals, it is able, in short, to better promote the common good of which it spoke. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what happened in Europe during this last Council. We've all been able to make a qualitative leap. The negotiation has consisted - as I mentioned these days ago and as I would also like to emphasise now - in the ability to defend and also to demand the position that Spain needs and deserves at this very critical juncture, but also the ability to give in, understanding the complexity of Europe and the complexity of this emergency. It was essential to create among all a viable alternative, a positive alternative, a resolute alternative; unanimity towards a common cause. To wake up, ladies and gentlemen, always means to give in; not to wake up, however, always means to lose. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, had to negotiate in Europe from listening, from empathy and understanding with the rest of the countries, from the ability to manage political time, which in the case of this pandemic always plays against. We all had to be able to understand ourselves, all the countries, we came from the political family we came from, we needed an agreement. This is the best example, ladies and gentlemen, to illustrate that a common cause unites families of different political colour. Europe must be understood with Europe and Spain must be understood with Spain, ladies and gentlemen. And if it is possible in Europe, in Spain it must be possible, we must make it possible to reach agreements. This Government, the Government of Spain, acted and pursued the path of the agreement insistently. That's why I traveled to Lisbon and talked to Prime Minister Costa, that's why I was in The Hague with Prime Minister Rutte, that's why I sat with my Italian colleague in Madrid or that's why I was with Chancellor Merkel or the Swedish Prime Minister, that's why I also traveled to Paris. That is why many ministers of the Government of Spain, that is why also the Spanish officials who stand out in the Spanish Reper and also in the various ministries involved, to which I want to pay a tribute, because the public servants that this country has are also participants and protagonists of this agreement; that is why, ladies and gentlemen, many ministries, many civil servants, men and women public servants, worked tirelessly to negotiate proposals and concrete aspects. [[applause]] I can assure you that the distance between the position of Holland or Finland and the position of Italy or Spain was at first enormous, very large, and yet we reached an agreement. If it were possible to reduce that distance, no one would understand that the same could not be done in our country. If a conservative liberal government like the Dutch has been able to agree with a progressive Spanish left-wing government, it is difficult to explain that between Spanish parties defending the same interests it is not possible to reach agreements. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like this historic agreement in Brussels to serve as an aggravation, an inspiration and to put us all in front of the mirror. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, when Europe has been faced with the greatest challenge in its history, Europe has been able to live up to it. And when Spain proposed a Marshall Plan to face the greatest calamity in a century on the European continent, Europe approved a Marshall Plan. Europe needed it, Spain deserved it, we have worked for months to reach the excellent news of this European agreement, to bring it here, ladies and gentlemen, home, where we all live, where we share the same needs, the same problems, the same joys and also the same anguish, or at least it should be. This is not a triumph of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is the basis and the stimulus for the success of an entire country that needs to stand up and recover. There is now a huge management challenge. In the coming years, in the coming months we will certainly live new challenges and threats, there will be more moments of extraordinary difficulty, but if Spain wants, Spain can, ladies and gentlemen. Europe has wanted, Europe is right today, more reason to be than ever; Europe is alive and remains united because it is going to defend the rights of all Europeans and Europeans, because in the face of this brutal crisis that strikes the world - and here are the data, more than 16 million contagions in the world - it has opted for solidarity and justice. We have gone to fight for the future of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, which is also the future of our country, of Spain. If we didn't win, we'd all lose. There is agreement, there is unity, so there is hope for Europe, for Spain, that is, for all and for all. Ladies and gentlemen, if Spain wants, Spain can. Now it's our turn. That horizon of unity and agreement must also be our horizon. We only need one thing, which is also very simple: to believe in ourselves and in our own possibilities, which are infinite. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Mr Bal Francés asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u4	By article 72 of the Rules of Procedure, asking for the application of a legal norm with the rank of law, which is article 6.1(a) of Royal Decree-Law 21/2020, of new normality - as the Government calls it - which states that where one has to maintain a distance of meter and a half must be maintained, and it is not enough to use the mask. We also agreed at the last meetings of the Board of Spokesmen that we would only allow 50 % of the parliamentary groups to take part. The Socialist Group has not complied, probably because it will want to cheer the President of the Government, but my group has complied, there are five out of ten. We're hardly going to enforce the rules to people if we don't meet them ourselves, when we approve them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Bal, as you know and as all your ladies and gentlemen know, the President has an obligation to enforce the Rules of Procedure, and there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure to allow the Presidency to prohibit the assistance of your ladies and gentlemen. In any case, put... [[Rumors]] I'm asking for silence, please. Since the interpersonal distance cannot be respected, what is mandatory throughout the session is the use of the mask. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, what are you applauding so much? What are you laughing at? I had a written speech on the European Councils, and, frankly, as the father of two children, as a grandson, as a son, as a Spaniard, I do not understand what is happening in this session. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u8	Frankly, Mr President of the Government, Members of the Government, I believe that they live in a parallel reality. There's nothing to applaud, there's no hall of honor to do. We are in a country that has lost 45,000 compatriots to a virus, there are seven million Spaniards who want to work and can't, the situation of the rebounds is frankly worrying and we have half the world putting ourselves on the blacklist of tourist and reliable countries. I sincerely believe that it is an almost childish and offensive trait towards Spanish society that we come here to compete in corridors, applause and in those autobomb ceremonies, which show not what you have, but exactly what you lack, and it is the support not only of a social and electoral majority, but also the support of other countries for what is happening. [[Applause.-Rumores.-The first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory, Calvo Poyato, delivers words that are not perceived]] Madam Vice-President, I know that you have the backing of an investiture, I have never doubted it; what I am saying is that a government with 120 seats should have more humility, less arrogance and more sensitivity with those who are having a bad time, because in Spain we are experiencing a drama. I'm on it now, Madam President. You have come here again to talk about World War II, and I will remind you of a phrase that you will know, which is: 'This is not the end, it is not even the beginning of the end, how much is the end of the beginning'. We are still suffering an international pandemic and this country continues to be the most killed by the number of inhabitants registered after four months of fighting the virus. This is the country that according to the IMF, the OECD, the AIReF, the Bank of Spain, the ECB, the worst is going to emerge from the economic recovery, and this is a country that right now has a government that faces the same stone for the second time. I have warned in the seven parliamentary debates that we have had in the House of three of the things that I believe a government cannot have: the lie, the denial of the reality of the facts, the arrogance in that propaganda - which becomes even offensive - in the media that depend on the government, and the incompetence and inefficiency in taking action. That stumbling back on the same stone is now seeing it with the rebounds and with a triumphalism that - I insist - becomes offensive; a triumphalism that in the Galician campaign led the President of the Government to say that he had defeated the pandemic, I imagine that to see if he scratched any more votes. But, of course, that triumphalism that has been projected to the public media, that has been projected in the propaganda campaigns, has had something to do with the relaxation of social habits, because in this country only the drama was seen in Bergamo and in the United States and in Brazil, and here everything was phenomenal. The Cambridgeers were lying, the John Hopkins were lying, the Oxforders were lying, they were antipatriots, they were patriots of tin; the opposition, of course, although we supported three extensions of the state of alarm, although we supported him seven economic decrees, although we supported him the decree of the new normality, which we already see was insufficient - that is why we called for it to be processed, urgently, as a draft law - although we supported so many and so many things, as no other opposition in the world with the numbers of deaths, contagions and of affectation here. You quote Portugal, Greece; of course, with 700, with 1000 or 1200 dead I would also support you, Mr Sánchez. But after 40,000 we couldn't do it. Therefore - I say to you without acrid - let us put an end to this triumphalism and let us try to avoid the rebounds. Spain is already the most uncontrolled country in the European Union in number of rebounds, more than 390, and the ministries are again completely overwhelmed. From the Ministry of Health, he is neither expected nor expected. The Minister of Tourism learns about issues related to the cancellation of tour operators' trips almost by the press. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u10	The foreigner is caught negotiating with the mayor of Gibraltar. And, of course, that's where the statements against Johnson come from. And perhaps this is what is happening, Mr Sánchez, that you only learn from the press of something as dramatic for tourism as what the United Kingdom, Belgium, Norway, Germany and France have announced. The Ministry of the Interior disagrees with the arrival of immigrants who may be infected by the virus, being a strictly national competence. The Ministry of Development disagrees with the effective protocols for entering Barajas. There are already many cases documented even by the media of people who have taken three connections, four flights, and in which it has been determined not by airport controls, but at the hotel, at their residence or at the health center who were sick, coming to the best of Latin America or from another point in the world geography. So let's do what needs to be done against the rebounds. It cannot be that the Government is passive and is now saying to take over other administrations, when they have been trying to catch the state of alarm to the end. We have been loyal as an opposition and have proposed an alternative plan from the beginning, an alternative plan that goes into legal regulation, the legal framework, which is what makes other countries secure in our country coming as tourists or with agreements on passenger mobility. [[rumors]] That legal agreement came from the belief that our existing legislation, as has happened in Germany, for example, which is a federal state, was sufficient to mandate a single health command. And you don't have to tell us that you can't do that because we did it in 2003 with SARS and we did it in 2015 with Ebola. There are three health laws that allow single command; by the way, for internationally declared pandemics it is not that it mandates us, it is that it forces the ministry to coordinate the autonomous communities with that single command. And with what you had doubts - and so I spoke to the President of the Government, the Vice-President and other ministers - it was with the limitation of mobility. We thought that there were three laws that allowed it: one health-care organization, one for civil protection and one for national security, and in addition to the WHO International Regulations, and in addition to the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. If that were not enough, before yesterday we proposed that, on the basis of the 2005 International Regulation on Pandemics and Transmissible Diseases, we could make an express reform - which you asked for - of the Organic Law of 1986 in order to clarify what aspects people's mobility or quarantine can be limited, without having to declare the state the alarm, which, by the way, is recommended by the European Commission and the European Council. It could be done in fifteen days, and you know it, you've done it in four months; we don't know why. Right now, when we're seeing that there are confinements, you say that you're dealing with the judges of the contentious-administrative. We also propose another amendment to the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act. What we say is that when there is a resolution made by the autonomous communities or by the Government of the nation, rather than understanding them by the contentious-administrative judges, they can understand them from the higher courts of justice of the autonomous communities and the Supreme Court, which guarantees legal certainty, but also gives a lot of certainty and agility in the processes of confinement or limitation of mobility, which is what we offered him four months ago; I do not know, three, two months ago. They haven't answered, they have a chance. The third issue on health that I wanted to pass on to you is the alternative health plan. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u12	I tell you that there are three laws in force that work: that of 1986, which regulates organic law; that of 2003 and 2011. Nevertheless, we ask you to amend those three rules, and four others, to give more impetus to health coordination. To control suppliers, so that there are no fraudulent purchases. For issues relating to international alerts, which are automatically implemented. For the homes of elderly people to have health personnel, even if they have to be shared with health institutions. For pharmacies and health centres to cooperate in primary care. So that concerted and private health and all autonomous administrations are in the same direction, even with a pool of staff at the national level and with a strategic reserve of material. So that Spanish health care providers will never again be at the forefront of international contagion. So that there are safe runners in front of infections in the emergency room. So that there is better funding, less temporaryity and also more sanitary places. In short, the Cajal pact for the health that I propose for the umpteenth time; that we close here in August and we can bring it forward, as we did twenty-five years ago with the Toledo pact for pensions. We have also proposed this, that pact for health care for medical research - which is also lacking - makes it bet in Spain for it - and for the national industry and also for the care of the elderly. This applies to health issues. In economics, Mr Sánchez, I remember another phrase from another British statesman: socialism ends when others' money runs out. And you will say: Are you rejecting what I have shown here today? No, quite the opposite, but we have to see where we came from; let's look at the economy before the pandemic, during the pandemic and after the pandemic. Before the pandemic, Spain was growing to 2.1%, you committed yourself - you inherited - to a committed deficit of 1.3; you asked for it to be extended to 1.8; you failed to do so, almost doubling it to 2.62 and, in the end, you hid 3000 million euros to Europe and delivered a 2.84. [[Mr. President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón makes negative signs]] That's data, it doesn't fit, because that's what it's written and that's what they say in Europe. Or not? Have they not delivered a deficit of 2.84 having a deficit path of 1.3? Well, after having merged 20 billion into electoral decrees, it has run out of fiscal space to act. Why has Germany been able to put so much money on companies and you have had to go and negotiate Europe? Because there was no tax margin. Why did we in Spain already have a slowdown in business creation, in industrial production index, in house sales, in consumer confidence index and in other European countries? Because you were doing populism with the budget and in the investment programs with your partners. So that's what we had before the pandemic, and we got to the pandemic. And you say, no, the pandemic is symmetrical. That's not true, Mr. Sanchez, that's not true. According to Eurostat, unemployment has grown ten times more in Spain during the pandemic than in the rest of Europe. According to the IMF and the World Bank, we are the worst country to emerge from the economic crisis. According to the Bank of Spain or the European Central Bank, we will have the deficit and the worst fall in GDP in the developed world. Therefore, it is not a question of symmetry, it is a question of how you have reacted to the pandemic. If you wait to take action - as is happening now, this is a deja vu of March - and then they are drastic and lasting, the economic closure is brutal, because the economy is not like a car that you turn on and off, it is more like an organism, that to make a transplant you can paralyze it, you can have a breath or an extracorporeal circulation, but to reactivate it is very difficult. That is what is happening in Spain and we come here to the great recession. However, when you give us figures like yesterday's EPA, you come here and applaud. Mr Sánchez, there are one million Spaniards who have lost their jobs in the last quarter, not to mention those who have welcomed ERTE, who have been 3,700 000, plus the 3,600 000 who are already unemployed and, above all, are in crisis in the tourism sector and say that it is of little added value and say that the seasonal economy needs to be changed, as the Vice-President and Minister of Consumer Affairs say. It represents 13% of GDP and 11% of national recruitment. What do we do with this, Mr. Sanchez? Do we continue to say, like Mr Simon, that tourists do not come, that they save us this or that the rebounds were already expected, as Mrs Calvo says, or that the rebounds do not worry? They will not worry you or Mr Simon, but we are concerned and the self-employed - a million without activity until now - or the families or even those 137 000 companies that have closed down. Mr Sánchez, of course the situation during the pandemic is catastrophic, but much more than in other countries. And where are we going? We're going to a recovery like the one that's been done in other recessions. You see, I'm not talking about Europe yet, I'm talking about what Spain has to do to save ourselves. I proposed two months ago an economic shock plan with five very important but very simple points. First, taxation. Why do you propose to raise taxes when they are lowered by France, Italy, Germany, the United States and everyone? [[Applauds]] Taxation down. Second, work flexibility. Why negotiate with Bildu to repeal labor reform when what everyone does is try to make recruitment more flexible and reduce it? Third, bureaucracy. Why do you want to put more obstacles now? By the way, European funds are now coming; EUR 12 billion did not execute Spain in 2019 of cohesion funds. It is that to execute European funds what you must have is bureaucratic capacity and administrative efficiency in order to be able to do so. Fourth, formation. What do you mean, the Celaá law now? Again to talk about the same, about ideological dogmatic issues. Hey, dual FP, bilingualism, truncated materials in technology, truncated materials in engineering, entrepreneurship, which is what kids have to work for in the future. And fifth, competitiveness. We are talking about digitization, sustainability, reindustrialization, internationalization, legal certainty. This is how Spain came out of the previous crisis. Do not tell us, just as the pandemic does not tell us, do not tell us the recessions, because we have surpassed two that you left us, that of 1996 and 2011. Legal certainty, yes. Mr. Sánchez, you can't tolerate your vice president being on Twitter yesterday on the side of those who are in jail for doing something that goes against the Constitution and you can't not appreciate that one of those who have returned to prison says to the young people: 'boys, the law you don't like has to fail', because that quotes on the stock exchange. Because the investor, when he hears that a government doesn't say anything to someone who's delinquent, who's in jail and that he's given a different prison treatment in favor of, and on top of it threatens to violate the law, he says: hey, I'm going to get into Spain with that legal certainty? That's why international investment here in Spain collapsed before the pandemic nearly 53%. And we're going to the European issue and I'm going to say a sentence... [[Rumors]] It's all Europe, gentlemen, if you don't see politics...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u14	You were quoting Monnet the other day. There is a very good Monnet phrase that says that there are some men who only change when they see the need and only admit the need when a crisis comes. I wish you were one of them, Mr. Sanchez. You quoted Adenauer, Monnet and Schuman the other day, all of them Christian democrats, conservatives and liberals who belonged to the founding political family of the European Union, that is, that of the European People's Party, which was the formation that then emerged from that founding alliance. That is why we are clearly satisfied with this fund for recovery and resilience, because it was proposed by the European People's Party, three women, three women of the European People's Party, now that we are talking so much about feminism and that to negotiate in the Eurogroup it seems that the female factor was an ishu, as it was not to support Mr De Guindos and as it was not to support Mr Cañete; we do support Mrs Calviño's candidacy. [[applause.-Laughter]] Yes, three women: Mrs Merkel, whom Mr Iglesias said that behind each Salvini and behind each Le Pen there is a Merkel, that. Mrs Merkel, of which you said: This is the one who gives a hand to the Greeks. What an obsession with the Greeks, Mr. Sánchez! That if the Pasoc will happen to him the same if he agrees with us. Don't worry about us and worry about your Varoufakis, to see how the Spanish negotiation ends in this. The same Merkel, yes, who presides over the European Semester and who has promoted this agreement. Like Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, who is from the European People's Party. Just like Mrs Christine Lagarde from the ECB, from Frankfurt, supporting, rowing in favour of these contributions. Of course we as the European People's Party are satisfied, but what we don't understand is why in the negotiation you did as the tired cyclist - I finish now, Madam President -: you started sucking wheels and let others negotiate for you, that these three women negotiate for you, that passive listening. And why? Do you not have a country that is the fourth economy of the euro and now the third after the Brexit? No, he stayed there. And you said here: I'm going to bring 1.5 billion euros unconditionally and to perpetual debt. And it comes here with a full-fledged rescue and a third of the bear's skin that hasn't hunted you, that you've been passive while hunting others. Still, it's okay with us, it's okay with us, but we have to do an analysis of what this help is. It is EUR 140 billion, of which EUR 72 000 million will be transferred, half of which will be net, because we are already net contributors, and in the multiannual financial plan we will have to contribute, therefore 35 000 in seven years, 5000 per year. To get an idea, the PlanE was EUR 13 billion, so it's not what comes to us, it's how you use it. What was PlanE for? Not at all. If you use these funds to do intensive Keynesianism, labor and not medium- and long-term employment, it will be worthless. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u16	So, Mr Sánchez, what we have to do now is use these funds well. And in order to make good use of these funds, the first thing that needs to be done is to know what paragraph 3 of the Spanish recommendations that the European Council sent in May says; what can they be used for, as it says? Firstly, you have EUR 120 billion of the ECB that are already buying sovereign debt; secondly, you have the SURE, another EUR 25 000, EUR 20 000 or EUR 15 000, depending on how you negotiate; you have the EIB, it can be another for companies in difficulty; you have the MEDE, if you want to go to the MEDE. This is a Marshall Plan, almost EUR 200 billion of liquidity for the national economy. By the way, a Marshall plan, which remembers the original: it was launched in Europe to avoid communism, not to sponsor it. [[Mr. García Aegean: Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u17	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u18	Thank you very much. Yeah, I'm finishing up. Therefore, if you have those funds, what will have to be done is to apply them correctly, and in that correct application of the funds we propose that you do so on the basis of Article 3 of the memorandum which said: energy connections; for example, the Government of Ceuta will ask you to connect with the peninsula; for example, industrial energy efficiency, Galicia will ask you to convert As Pontes, from Alcoa, from the electro-intensive industry. Sustainable mobility? The Andalusian Junta will ask you for the Mediterranean corridor, transport that does not pollute. Water resources? Murcia will ask you for the Water Plan and improve the Sea Minor. Fighting the pandemic? Madrid is going to ask for a pandemic hospital. Territorial cohesion, vertebration? Castilla and Leon are going to ask you to bet on the CAP. By the way, the CAP, do you think it is to celebrate a 10% reduction in the CAP, EUR 600 million less for farmers and farmers who cannot be the pagans again? [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u20	I'm done, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, you cannot say that you have an economic agenda to meet the ransom while you have a political agenda to meet your investment partners, because it cannot be dissociated. We cannot pretend to create prosperity and wealth in a country where we are negotiating with other partners. You have to choose between Europe and its partners. You have to choose between moderation, centrality or extremes. You have to decide whether you will comply with your personal interests or those of Spain because you have never been in more connection and you have to decide also at European level whether you are aware that Europe is not a neutral club. Europe emerges against populisms, nationalisms and communism, just those that support you. It's not a neutral club. You have to decide, once Europe has complied with Spain, if you want to comply with the Spanish. Do it for once, Mr. Sanchez. Spain already needs a policy of wisdom, economic growth, job creation and convergence with the major European liberal democracies, just what is lacking in this blue bank. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u21	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, do you want me to say good morning or do you want us to applaud you, too? Do you also want the VOX Parliamentary Group to participate in the issue that you wanted to set up in Congress today and that you set up on the Council of Ministers the other day? Does it not give you shame to live in a permanent paripé with which you have even dared to fail to comply with the agreement between the groups that 50% of Members should attend? The Presidency is right, it cannot prohibit any Member from attending this House, but you have shown your irresponsibility. On the other hand, you can, from the government, ban the Spaniards from leaving their homes. Do you know what decorum is? They do not know it and they proved it during the real mourning of Spanish society in which they refused to come here with a miserly black tie and then end up in a new paripé, in an exculpatory act of the actions of the government that you preside over and that Mr. Iglesias vice-presides. Your applause these days, Mr. Sánchez, are like the mourners who used to go to the funerals that, for those who don't know, were women hired and who cried for commission. False tears those and false applause those of their correspondents these days and that do not cover the human and economic tragedy that the Spaniards are living and that, without any doubt, will increase this autumn. But before considering the painful situation in which you have placed the Spaniards, it is appropriate to remember how you have come here, Mr Sánchez. I know we've reminded him many times and I have to tell him he's going to hear it again today in the rostrum and every time he needs it. You have come to the Presidency of the Government by lying to the Spaniards, lying without a brake, lying without a limit, lying without shame and lying without any decorum. You promised up to satiety in all media, on all tracks - surely you could see yourself in those videos that circulate so much - that you would not bargain with communists or separatists. It governs with one another and depends on the other, and that is why I repeat it: you preside over an illegitimate government because it is legal to lie to the Spaniards, but it is absolutely illegitimate to have lied to the Spanish voters and to the socialist voters as you have done to reach power. [[Applauds]] And ruling with that lack of legitimacy, you have starred in the worst management of the world in the face of the epidemic that came from Communist China - by the way, communist as its governing partners - you have decreed an undercover state of emergency that has restricted rights and freedoms, you have been the creators of the most lying management of the planet, excluding China, of course, and you continue without recognizing the number of dead and without providing reliable data. They have been responsible for the most deadly management, with almost 50,000 dead. He already recognizes it even the newspaper El País, which until recently foisted VOX, which was the only political force that offered that figure in parliamentary office that many institutions were already denouncing. You have been the culprits of the most ruinous management in the face of the epidemic, with desperate families, with thousands and thousands of Spaniards at ERTE - many of them uncollected -, with thousands and thousands of them ending up in the ranks of unemployment and, by the way, with many unemployed who will not receive the benefit until November. You've been the protagonists. Today they applauded themselves, but they have been the architects, the responsible and the guilty of the most shameful management; and they have been so with the complicity of the vast majority of the media, who have hidden the gravity of the situation and who have helped them to hide the drama and the dead. Then you are surprised that some Spaniards are not aware of the gravity of the situation in which we live. And what is worse, you are now the protagonists of the worst rebound, as we also warned from VOX. In autumn, if you do not resign as we have been asking you, we will again be the champions of the epidemic and ruin. Unfortunately, the disaster of its management has not yet come to an end. You continue to aggravate the problem with every decision you make. Since they are not willing to change their way of ruling and their way of living, which is lying, they come now to this House for us to applaud an agreement full of lies; full of lies, because fundamentally it is a ransom. I see you exhausted; it must be by active listening. We already knew in this House that you do not like to listen, and I have suffered personally. By the way, he said that the aid is going to be 11 % of the gross domestic product and not 60 %, as he said recently in a television clip. What he has not said is that it is in six years and therefore annually the aid is going to be just over 1% of the gross domestic product. A rescue that will bring ruin, because you are not going to cut a single euro from the political, ideological and party spending that supports the Spaniards and that has been sewing them to taxes for decades. A rescue that implies the loss of sovereignty, because now we will depend more on whether it is up to the countries of the north. A rescue that contemplates more effect called - because we are practically already required - to illegal immigration, with more insecurity and with more poverty for the most needy Spaniards. A rescue with which you have once again left the countryside and condemned the industry with your ideological obsessions. A rescue that you applaud indecently and foolishly because you don't respect the Spaniards. They think they're children they can punish or lock up or hamsters they can cage. You actually applaud, with those unholy applause, the disease, the ruin and dependence of our homeland. [[Applauds]] And it's not weird, because we already know them. Recently you came to this House, Mr Sánchez, to shout out your private Long live death! with that Viva on March 8, which had become the main focus of the epidemic in Spain. [[Applauds]] Now without decorum any that you applaud are 50 000 dead and millions of Spaniards in unemployment and in a situation of poverty. Applaud what you bring and maybe you can't do anything else, and in that you even have our understanding. Soon, by ignoring many of the proposals we have been making to you - such as the original RCPs or others that Dr Steegmann and other Members of this group have been making - you are going to intend to put us back in jail. I solemnly tell you from this rostrum: do not think about it, because we will not allow it, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] By the way, I'm telling you too, Mr. Churches. The Constitutional Court has once again recognized its futility or its partyism, seriously failing to respect this House, seriously failing to respect the seat of national sovereignty, not responding to an appeal of unconstitutionality raised by fifty-two VOX deputies and keeping absolute silence, perhaps in order not to spoil the future plans of the Government. The judges should consider the usefulness of the institution and also consider their own usefulness within the institution. But, Mr Sánchez, I think I'm going to give you good news from your perspective; for me it wouldn't be. You're not the bull that killed Manolete, you're not guilty of everything, as you'll probably say once you go up to this rostrum in connection with our intervention. No, no, China is guilty. The Chinese communist government - communist as its laughing partner, which was clearly proclaimed communist and now hides it and has it on its cover - is responsible for the pandemic worldwide. The Chinese Communist Government hid the data from the rest of the nations. The Chinese Communist Government controls and manages the World Health Organization, which has collaborated in this concealment, at its own will. That is why we believe that Spain should leave the WHO immediately and allocate all the funds it gives to that Chinese propaganda channel to collaborate with vaccine research, for example. [[Applauds]] The responsibility of the Chinese Communist tyranny must be pointed out. It is necessary to demand compensation for their lies and their concealment. It is necessary to analyse the consequences of a virus that, for many researchers, already has an artificial suspect component. And we must prevent them from further ruining our industry, putting unnecessary tariffs on our products, because while China takes off in uve, Spain goes down without a remedy, with you at the head. By the way, Mr. Married, the other day the secretary general of the People's Party stated that, while VOX exists, Sánchez has Moncloa insured with his partners. We are not collaborators of the worst left, of the sectarian left. We are not the ones who have surrendered all the flags to the left and are now suffering from this kind of social-communist government. We are not the ones who meet in hiding with Mr Zapatero, who sometimes acts as Ambassador of Maduro. Nor are we the ones who sign friendship agreements with communist tyranny. What do you expect, Mr. Married, to break the friendship agreement with the Chinese Communist Party, which is still in force, signed by your party? What do you expect to protect the interests of the Spaniards exclusively? [[Applauds]] All who are here, and without any exception, because for that they have chosen us, we must protect the Spaniards. We must protect their health, we must protect their economy and prosperity and we must protect their data. Spain and all democratic nations must prevent data from their compatriots, millions of Spaniards, millions of Europeans, from ending up in the hands of a company controlled by a communist tyranny, taking advantage of the implementation of the new 5G technology. We must therefore also talk about data sovereignty and, specifically, individual sovereignty. Democratic nations, even though Mr Iglesias is outraged, protect the privacy of their citizens and, therefore, must take all measures to ensure that the privacy of their citizens does not end up in the hands of those who have been responsible for 644,000 deaths worldwide and those who still lead one of the worst tyranny on earth. [[Applauds]] That said, Mr Sánchez, I gave you the good news that you are not guilty of everything, but you are guilty and responsible for many things, in equal parts with Mr Iglesias. You have not taken any health measures regarding foreign temporary workers coming to work legally in Spain, and that has ended up becoming one of the main focus of the epidemic at the moment. It's funny, but I think the Spaniards don't laugh. Above all, you are guilty of shouting, systematically, at illegal immigration, Mr. Iglesias, abandoning the most humble Spaniards. You are responsible for an illegal immigration, which these days is taking dyes of true silent invasion and silenced by your accomplices in the media. Hundreds of infected people arrive at our coasts, with the consequent collapse of health in these areas, with the CIEs closed to lime and chant and with the illegals camping to their wide, with insecurity in the neighborhoods and gangs of illegals uncontrolled by cities such as Albacete, Cartagena, Malaga, Murcia and Almería. How are tourists going to go to the Canary Islands if the only thing you allow to get to the Canary Islands are cayucos with infected people? How will the United Kingdom, Germany and the governments of other European nations trust the government of Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias? Where's the tracking technology the Foreign Minister was talking about at the BBC? How long will it take to stop the evil Simon, who has rejoiced that the tourists do not come, who has dared to say that this will take away a problem from us? [[Applauds]] It is that you applaud anything and applaud anyone, because you have no decorum, no shame and do not defend the interests of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Let not those of the north come, with sanitary controls, to spend money in Spain, but, yes, let them come from the north of Africa without any kind of control, illegally, infected and to collect money that does not reach the Spaniards, money of the Spaniards that does not reach the most modest and humble Spaniards. That is what you provoke and what you want: tourists, not one; illegal immigrants, everyone. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, although you would laugh under the mask, you are the face of disaster; a disaster that will go on this autumn. That is why you applaud foolishly and unwisely. We have warned for a year that your Government has come riding on lies, promoting sectarian division among the Spaniards; and now also unemployment and ERTE, ruin and misery, disease, lack of freedoms, political violence against the opposition, which you not only condemn but instigate. Too bad Mr Echenique is not here, who dared to say that the head stone against a Member of this House was ketchup. What shame, what shame, Mr. Churches. [[Applauds]] The media have kept quiet that this group offered a Government of emergency and national salvation, and the rest of the political forces have ignored it. Meanwhile, those of us who are still on the street with the people, Mr. Iglesias, have felt the fear, the despair and the impotence before the Socialcommunist government that you are leading. And from this rostrum, we ask the Spaniards not to fall into defeatism, not to allow themselves to be robbed of sovereignty or the future or borders, not to be imprisoned, not to be ruined by you and to continue to set an example, as they have done, and not to give this criminal government an excuse to put them back in their homes. This VOX Parliamentary Group has often shared and felt the impotence of Spanish society before an illegitimate and unsympathetic government, but we still had the floor in this rostrum, and, thanks to the support of many Spaniards, we have been able to tell you what the Spaniards would also have wanted to say to you from this rostrum. We have even had the instrument of mobilizations, but it is not enough, it is not enough, Spanish society demands and deserves much more from all of us. That is why I solemnly announce from this rostrum that we have no choice but to use the instrument of the motion of censure, which we will present in September. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] In the meantime, we invite all Members and groups of all parties to this motion, all those who believe that we are still in time to prevent Spain from falling into the ruin, death and oppression that you bring us. Gentlemen of the People's Party, we have already placed you on 6 May from this rostrum calling for the responsibility of the second party of Spain. I say this with humility and with a spirit of dialogue: the Spaniards cannot understand strategies and political tactics; the Spaniards cannot wait any longer; the Spaniards cannot hope for the 'worst, better'. Let us avoid the worst and return the voice to the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Asens Llodrà.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u24	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to express my solidarity with the families of Jordi Cuixart, Oriol Junqueras, Raúl Romeva and Quim Forn and their parties, because yesterday we saw the news of how the courts acquitted the civil guards for what happened in Tarajal, but also another news for which the third degree was revoked. [[applause]] This is not an act of justice; it is an act of revenge that takes us away from a political solution to the conflict in Catalonia. That is why, President, I ask you - now that we are emerging from the worst phase of the pandemic - for more courage, more determination. We need politics to be useful again, to win again and to overcome the legacy of the judicialization of the People's Party. Secondly, I wanted to remind you that the bacillus of fascism, intolerance, awakens again. We saw him last week in the attempt to attack Minister Yolanda Díaz, we see him night after night in the harassment during the last two months at the home of the Vice President and the Minister of Equality and we see him in the ferocious march of attacks, insults, even death threats to the leaders of the Podemos. Mr Abascal spoke of decorum and Mr Casado spoke of the lack of empathy of this government. The truth is that empathy would have been to show some support for the minister, and I would have thanked her today, but it is not only that I cannot thank them; it is that it is you who have caused this climate of coercion, it is you who insult us, when they call us criminals, when they speak of the illegitimate government, of the constitutional dictatorship or of totalitarianism. That inoculates hatred among his followers because, obviously, against a dictatorship there are many people who believe it is worth anything, and that is what is behind the attack on the minister. If the protagonists had been others, you would still be hyperventilating today, your newspapers would take it on the cover, ask for exceptional measures, and you would be talking about coup or phyloterrorism. Let no one be deceived, this strategy of intimidation is the expression of your impotence after the defeat of your ideas, because the new transversal consensus in Spain and Europe are built in opposition to what you did in 2008. In fact, this agreement goes in the opposite direction to the agreement of the European Union, where debt is pooled and Eurobonds, which seemed impossible, are today a reality. It's less than we wanted, but it's more than most expected. That's why, President, congratulations. In your short time of government - in the short life of the government you preside - you have had more leadership than all the right-wing governments together when they were doing Mrs Merkel's errands. It is true that there are limits in that agreement, obvious limits, limits that have to do with the pressure of the party of the nostalgics of the troika, of the tax havens, that in Europe is called the Dutch party and that in Spain, do you know what it is called? People's Party. [[Applauds]] Unlike the previous crisis - with the humiliation of Greece - there is now an alliance of progressive governments from the south that opens up a horizon of hope; that dream of Europe as a continent of prosperity and freedom, that dream that has been buried many times throughout history but has always awakened. He woke up 80 years ago in the resistance of his peoples against fascism or in the dignity of the survivors of the extermination camps and now he wakes up also in Spain by the hand of the first coalition government from the Republic, he also wakes up in Portugal, the land of the Revolution of Claveles and José Saramago, and in the anti-fascist Italy that entered from the balconies the Bella Ciao. And that battle, indeed, is nothing, remains open; the positions are already fixed in the neoliberal adjustment that the international cutbacks - represented in this House by the Dutch bench - and, on the other hand, by a civilizational alternative that pretends that no one is left behind and that serves as a vaccine in the face of the hate speech that we have heard again today in this Chamber. This battle, this crossroads, is the one that the world and Europe have ahead. The European Union can decompose under financial despotism or can be refounded by updating that promise of 'Never again' in the face of the barbarism of people who love freedom after the Second World War. And in this progress of this Europe of solidarity the role of cities will be key, and with that I want to finish my reflection in this intervention: you really cannot rule from behind to the municipalities. Pascual Maragall said that Europe's future is the future of cities. He argued that everything that can be done from the nearest administrations should not be done from the farthest, and the truth is that the Treasury proposal goes in the opposite direction to that federalist tradition; I already had the opportunity to tell the minister. Municipalities are being sought to be protected as minors, they are being asked to renounce their savings and lend them to the State, making them a bank so that the State can return them within ten years. This is very unfederalist, really. Any individual or company, of the largest the smallest, when they are in difficulty resort to their savings and, if they are not enough, they are indebted. That also happens with the administrations, from the state or the communities to the municipalities, in Europe is what happens. In Spain, on the other hand, the municipalities are tied with their feet and hands, they are the only ones forced not to be indebted and to spend less than they enter. The lock on article 135 of the Constitution must be broken. If it could be put in five minutes ten years ago, it should now also be able to break to defend social rights. I'm done, President. Mr President, listen more to your mayors, to the associations of neighbours, to the federations of municipalities and to the majority cry of this House. Local autonomy must be reinforced, its funding strengthened with state and European funds because it is impossible to save autonomous Spain and to disagree with Spain from the cities, because today the cities represent the vanguard, the advance of progress, are the first trench in the face of inequalities, the exclusion of the extreme right. Therefore, the political imperative of the times to come cannot be other than to preserve precisely the promise of justice and freedom that comes from them, from the cities; we must give them space and make them last. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u25	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Disinfection of the rostrum by a cleaning worker]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u26	Thank you, President. Today we are talking about the European agreement, but first, as a scientist, I have to say that it makes me stunned when the ultra-right puts on the Albal paper cap. [[Laughter]] It is not only the negationism of climate change, today it has been the human edition of the genome of the coronavirus. It is difficult to define in historical terms this combination between neo-ranchism and trumpism, but I believe that this ultra-right terraplanism allows us to make a good definition. Mr. Abascal, you are the opposite of the Illustration. [[Applauds]] I think that's his historical definition. We are talking here today, as I said, about the agreement reached in the European Council, and I think it is obvious that we must first talk about the epidemiological situation, because without public health there is no economy, and there is no European funds that they reach. The battle against the virus remains the first and the main difference between the terrible situation in March and the current situation, from my point of view, is clear: we now know perfectly well what we have to do. On an individual level, use the mask, wash our hands and maintain the safety distance. At the institutional level, it is the obligation of the autonomous governments to make adequate use of the EUR 9 billion transferred to them. All experts agree, autonomic governments need to strengthen primary care and hire a sufficient number of trackers. This is what needs to be done, we know that. What is needed to control the epidemic is simple and direct. It is not necessary - and it would be inefficient - to get into the long process of reforming a lot of laws, as Mr. Married proposes to go out on the television. There is no need to invent extravagant and possibly illegal ideas, such as Mrs. Ayuso's covid chart. It is enough for us all to do what we already know we have to do, which is our obligation to control the epidemic, because health is the first and also a necessary condition for economic recovery. In this direction, the agreement reached last week at the European Council is, with its limitations, clearly good news for Spain and also for Europe. That is why, as I did briefly a week ago, I would like to begin by congratulating the entire Government, the Spanish delegation and, in particular, you, President, on the effort made and the agreement reached. [[Applauds]] Once again, congratulations. I know that these applause do not like anything on the benches of the Dutch party, here on my right and, frankly, I think you should make them look at it, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and VOX. When Forza Italia, from Berlusconi, or the neofascists Fratelli d'Italia, applauded Giuseppe Conte in the Italian Parliament, they were not applauding the government, they were applauding an agreement that was also good for Italy. If you were true patriots, and not just a bracelet, ladies and gentlemen of the Dutch party, you would have applauded a minute ago. Having said that, it is true that we should not be naive about the agreement and from the United Nations we may not be naive. To begin with, it is to be seen whether the 750 billion will be enough or not to deal with the economic crisis resulting from the coronavirus, but it is no less true that the historical nature of what has been achieved does not lie in both the amount of the funds and the nature of the agreement, which includes, as the President has already said, a number of elements that were unthinkable in the previous crisis. This time funds will be injected into the productive economy rather than into the speculative economy, debt is pooled, more than half of the funds are transfers and come without associated cuts. I know that the Dutch party is shouting "Rescue, Rescue!" and insists a lot on a so-called small letter in which there would be black men, cuts and even an armory of the Labour Reform of the People's Party. I have read the agreement of the whole European Council and I have to say that more than a small letter is invisible ink, which is a bubble, come on, which is a bubble. That is what they would like there to be in the agreement, that is what they worked for in Europe that there was in the agreement, but fortunately they failed. What is true is that while in the previous crisis the European Union stepped on the neck of the countries of the South, this time it has decided to help us. We can discuss whether aid should be greater, and we think it is, but it is a fact that the chosen direction is diametrically opposed to what was decided in the last crisis, and that is good news for Spain and also a historic milestone for the construction of the European project. But there is still the most important task to be done. Journalist Enric Juliana recently wrote: The noise industry and the proliferation of information scrap could now block the next and indispensable debate: what to do with the European fund. I shall devote what remains of my speech to trying to contribute to this debate. If something has become apparent during this health crisis, with the difficulties, for example, of getting material in a global cannibal market, if we must learn from the economic debacle that could lead to a collapse of international tourism, it is that we cannot trust everything as a country to external actors and we are therefore obliged to raise the necessary capacities in the coming years to regain control of our economy and to be more resilient to crises. That is why we believe it is essential that part of the European funds should be allocated to an ambitious reindustrialisation of the country in a green transition and that a genuine digital revolution should also be addressed. But we also think that these axes do not exhaust the productive vectors on which we must bet as a country. There are many examples that seem clear to us. [[Rumors]] The Spanish cultural industry seems to us to have enormous potential for growth; the biomedical sector; the food sector in its phase...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, please keep a little silence. There's a constant rumor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u28	Thank you, President. ... the food sector - he said - in its phase of greater added value. From the public point of view we think that the care economy should be one of the main legs of recovery, with an investment comparable to that of the other two main vectors. The data in this regard are humanly unacceptable. On the one hand, data that affect people receiving care. More than 250 000 dependents recognized without receiving the benefit; 31 000 of them died in 2019 on this shameful waiting list, 85 each day. Almost half of children under the age of three do not attend children's schools, most of them because of economic problems. This also has a huge impact, of course, on the caregiver: men spend an average of two hours a day on the home and the family, women twice as much; of all family care surpluses, 89 % are women and this, of course, has an impact on very serious work effects on women. Male unemployment, 12,7 %; female unemployment, 16,5. Partiality rate among men, 7%; among women, 24%. Average salary of a man, 26 400 euros; that of a woman, almost 6000 euros less per year. We are convinced that it is time to converge on public investment in care for the most advanced countries. We believe that the cuts in the Unit Act should be reversed, that care should be placed at home, that the work of family carers should be dignified, that a system of quality residences, public management and decent working conditions should be developed for their professionals. We also believe that a universal and public system of child education between the ages of 0 and 3 must be achieved and that this must be done in this same legislature. We are convinced that there has to be a real revolution in the care economy, not only to ensure that the rights of dependent people, of children, of caregivers, of women's rights to real and effective equality are fulfilled, but also because the care economy can be a formidable economic engine. These measures could create more than 600,000 clean, non-displaceable, fast-start and non-seasonal jobs. Public investment in the care economy is extremely effective in economic terms, because it has a high rate of return on taxes and contributions, because it is very intensive in employment and, precisely so, because it can reactivate the whole economy through domestic consumption. That is why it would be very good for Spain to devote a large part of the European funds to this purple vector of the economy and it would be an unforgivable opportunity not to do so. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that, in order to carry out such a programme, a courageous programme of strong public services and, therefore, of fair and progressive taxation, it is very important to choose well the travelling partners. These days we have been able to verify the little success - let us say so - of the hypothesis of variable geometry in the Reconstruction Commission, and we humbly believe that the two parts of the coalition have to take note, we must choose between those who govern supported by the ultra-right in autonomous communities and municipalities and those who supported a progressive program in their investiture. The task ahead is crucial for our country and we believe that it requires coherent geometry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u29	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u30	The summit agreement has shown all the deficits and contradictions that the European Union has, economic and social and democratic, with a Parliament that has once again been singled out. Unlike other occasions, even if the agreement is not fully satisfactory, it allows us to draw up expansionary and progressive general state budgets that maintain the social shield thanks to the 70 billion euros non-refundable, and it allows us to take the measures that our economic system needs to be less dependent, recover industrial sovereignty, productive capacity and generate jobs of quality and with rights. It is an acceptable agreement, achieved despite the sabotaging and stateless attitude of the Spanish right, which at all times has tried to undermine the image of our Government, seeking to defeat the position of our country. The right is invented a non-existent agreement, a rescue and non-existent conditionalities, because they want the European Union to do their dirty work and end up with the government that voted for the Spaniards. The reality is that the European agreement, with its many limitations and shortcomings, allows us to get out of the crisis different from that which the People's Party carried out in 2012, with ransom and gifts to the bank included, thanks to the fact that we have a government that puts the interest of the social majority before that of the bank and that of the big capitals. Today I would like to remind the great Julio Anguita, who explained to us how the model of integration on which the European Union was built since Maastricht prevents European fiscal policies, limits social policies and laminates popular sovereignty. We are not naive, we will be vigilant and we will fight so that no one can introduce behind conditions that today are not included in the agreement, in which, so far, there are neither troika nor austerid conditionalities. But for this we need the support of the trade union organizations and employers concerned about their people, the active mobilization of those who know that only this government will prevent rights cuts, investing the money that the agreement brings in social and labour policies. For the first time a social and economic crisis does not end up paying workers. We will work for green reindustrialization and digitisation, building productive sovereignty. In a technology-led world, we no longer depend on companies, but on national R & D+i systems, capable of ensuring macroeconomic investments to control strategic sectors. We need the state to implement an industrial policy that is not sabotaged by failed neoliberalism. We propose rapid and intelligent reindustrialization, based on sustainable, environment-friendly and inclusive innovation, generating quality jobs. On the right, however, it is more important to wear down the government than to place Spain at the head of the industrial technological vanguard. A patriotism of charanga and tambourine. Let us definitely bury the 'inventing them', and that is done only by thinking about the common good and using the tools that our Constitution gives us in articles 128 et seq. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. A previous one: we have seen from the Group of Republican Left that the right is on sale. Yesterday the extreme right offered a vaccine-free card, a terribly discriminatory measure, as everyone can imagine; and today the extreme right offers a motion of censure that everyone knows is not going against Mr Sánchez or Mr Iglesias, but is going against Mr Married, in that phagocitating operation that has VOX against the People's Party. All we need to know is what citizens will do. I guess tomorrow he'll offer a free night at a Kike Sarasola hotel. [[Laughter]] But we are here to talk about Europe. The facts: Next Generation European Union, a fund agreed for ninety-six hours in the heart of Europe by the Member States for the Member States: EUR 750 billion in total, EUR 390 000 in direct aid and EUR 360 000 in loans; EUR 140 000 for Spain alone: EUR 72 700 in direct aid and EUR 67 300 in loans. A money from the European Commission's debt capacity, with the Member States as a guarantee of payment and amortised in the Union's regular budget for years, through new extraordinary and green rates, such as coal, digital and CO2 emissions. So far the facts. Let's go with the good news, because there really are. The good news. The paradigm shift from what was done, to what was conceived in the 2008 scam crisis, is total, and two milestones within the agreement attest to this. The first: partial mutualisation, but debt mutualisation; the issue of Eurobonds for all this, on a scale never seen before, by the European Commission - we repeat - attests to this. The second milestone is the creation of own, green and progressive taxes by the Commission, and all this from the European budget. Both milestones are advancing in European construction and in the fiscal unit of the Union. In short, the European Union gives it the reason, ten years later, to the left and acknowledges that stepping on people's necks is useless, only serves to drown them, and with them to the European Union. So far the good news. Let's go with the bad ones. The bad news. And all this, in exchange for what? EUR 140 billion, in exchange for what? Where's the trick? There's always a trick. There are basically two tricks. The first: how do you charge? All Member States must draw up and present a national recovery plan listing and explaining the needs, investments and reforms that justify receiving their share of the fund; a plan that must be approved by a qualified majority - I repeat, qualified - at the European Council; a European Council controlled by the Franco-German axis and whose most powerful alternative is the even more neoliberal Dutch, Austrian, Swedish and Danish axis; an axis led by the Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, head and spiritual guide of Mr Casado and Mr Abascal; certainly curious patriots who applaud the most anti-patriot Spanish during that agreement with their ears. I ask one question: a European Council with this arithmetic and with these balance of power, will it accept and vote on a plan presented by the governments of the Member States of expansionary or restrictive fiscal, social and economic policies? What policies can this European Council, led and led by whom we have said, adopt? If Merkel and Macron are the ones who have to save us from Rutte and company, the answer is clear: the second, the plan will be restrictive. And a true horizon of really progressive social, economic and labour policies is terribly far away, and so it must be said. Here is the first trick, the final formula agreed on continues to give the Commission the capacity to monitor and approve the economic policies of the Member States, but it recognises a brake on all of them in the Ecofin, which would mean de facto deferring the final approval of access to the fund, i.e. Spain, Portugal and Italy as sheep in the middle of wolves, and so it must be said. The second trick. The plan presented in Europe by the Government will obviously be closely linked to the general budgets of 2021, 2022 and 2023. We ask another question: General State budgets linked to a European plan that must equip people like Rutte, how will they be, expansionary or restrictive? Investments or cuts? Well, either the Dutch Prime Minister is on the left in six months, I don't think so, or the second. And with whom will the most progressive, plurinational and dialogueal government in history be able to agree to restrictive, European-protected General State Budgets with Esquerra or Citizens? Well, Arrimadas becomes a Social Democrat in three months, which I don't believe, or with Citizens, and that's the second trick. Here is the activation and presence of Citizens in the latest agreements with the Government. The least socialist of you, but the most honest, Mr Borrell, the most sincere - perhaps as cool as he is - in the Reconstruction Committee told me myself. In the face of this question of: What is the meaning of Citizens? Could it be because of Europe? He said: yes, of course, you are useless in economics; yes, of course, any help will involve a cut. Josep Borrell. Here is the most immediate struggle, the right can't stand not having the power, but a certain left can't stand having it. We told this a few weeks ago to the Minister of Consumer Affairs, to Mr Garzón, who was asked a few months ago what the pacts with Citizens looked like and replied: It seems good to me, it is good news; I would open up to agree some budgets with them to undertake the necessary reforms. And I ask you again, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can: what reforms can be agreed with Citizens? What kind of reforms? The elimination of autonomous competences? The one-time contract? Decorating police abuse? Rent tickets? Vue commissions of inquiry? Opening up bars and closing up outpatient clinics like Ciudadanos has done with the Ayuso PP in Madrid? Reducing the budget in policies against macho violence as Citizens has done with VOX in Andalusia? Is it really worth bleaching all this in exchange for not disturbing? Really? I ask you again, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can: in exchange for what can be agreed with Citizens? How long will the minimum living income last with Citizens? And the ban on cutting off the light and water that you can't afford? And the repeal of labour reform? Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, the main threat to your coalition of government and the famous social shield is not us, it is Citizens. [[Applauds]] If you keep quiet, you'll get it too. There are only three exits in front of this. One, expansive fiscal policies. Two, massive government-funded and government-induced consumption. Money shouldn't be held back by fear. It must be given security and break with the absurd neoliberal mantra that money is better in people's pockets. As Mr Errejón said a few months ago, no one can buy a piece of ICU or a year's life. And three, issuing real and specific debt bonds from central banks. There's no more, but neither is there any less. Europe must rise to the challenge and mobilize unprecedented real resources so that no one will be left behind. We have to pool the debt, really. The European Union must also be fiscal union and social union. An example idea and a question. The European Central Bank injects EUR 750 billion at a current rate of 40 000 per week. It is money that goes directly to banks or is used to buy bonds from large companies. European Central Bank, EUR 750 billion. It is just the amount for which the European Commission wants to be indebted in this reconstruction plan. If so, why does the European Central Bank not inject this money directly into the European Union? There is background: Bank of England, U.S. Federal Reserve, Bank of Japan... Money is created and the public institution that is actually going to carry out reconstruction plans that do not end up being a slab for the peoples is given to zero interest. The only answer to why this does not happen is because this Europe still prefers to keep the financial sector and large multinationals to reduce and facilitate economic reconstruction. In Republican Left we have it clear. The European Union must be a geopolitical pole for the defence of democracy, human rights and social equality with solidarity as a material basis for all this. And Catalonia, Spain, France, Italy and Portugal must become an indissoluble axis in the fight for no conditionality in the transfer of economic aid. We live in the era of euphemisms. Conditionality is cutbacks. I repeat, conditionality is cutbacks. In Europe, there must be no more insolidity and no more division of labour based on the fact that the countries of the south are the waiters of the countries of the north. You don't just have to share the flag, the living room or the kitchen, you also have to share the debts and the fridge. Everyone knows that only a winning regime unites you with someone. Marx said that history is always repeated twice, the first as a tragedy and the second as a scam. If a democracy is based on the criterion of the majority of money and not on the criterion of the democratic majority, it simply ceases to be a democracy, and that happens too often in Europe. Let no one go back to that farce that has lived beyond our possibilities. Northern Europe must cease to be the neighbour of the first one who does not want the elevator to be put on. No more or less. I'm done, Madam President, and I'm done with a warning. Today our comrades sleep in jail again. The prosecution has loaded its third degree. Today, Spain smells like a toga rancia and a cowardly left. True, there is a deep state that has declared war to us, but also to the Government, and their silence and inaction emboldens them. We do not ask them to be left-wing, we ask them to be braver. Where there is no justice, there can be no peace. Shut up and plant face, because the next can be you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u33	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Borràs Castanyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u34	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Mr. President. Junts per Catalunya is a Europeanist formation and we are convinced that the future passes, yes or yes, through Europe, through a Europe of peoples, a Europe that respects the fundamental rights of its citizens, although this is recently almost a chimera when living in a state like Spanish, which seems to only remember Europe when it has to receive its economic aid, but which also offers, day and day, unencouraging examples of this respect for fundamental rights. If they do not respect their own laws when they must apply them to Catalan independent political prisoners, how will they respect European justice? But let me tell you that we are concerned that the self-proclaimed most progressive government in history is to be understood by the leaders of countries such as Turkey, whom you consider - as you say - a partner, friend and ally. We do not know whether this friendship with the Turkish leaders has anything to do with the fact that, after more than two years since its presidency, the repression against political dissent in the Spanish State, for defending ideas democratically, has not diminished but, on the contrary, has increased: condemnation of sedition in the face of a democratic and peaceful act on 1 October; designation of terrorists to the CoR; theft of seats to MEPs; complaints against the Bureau of Parliament and, yesterday, the prosecutor's office, which we already know is dependent on, launders the rights of political prisoners and leaves them without the permissions or the third degree corresponding to them. [[The Lord]] They did not have enough to convict them for non-existent crimes, but now they deprive them of the rights of any prisoner in Spain. The moment, however, is exceptional and certainly the agreement that has been reached is also exceptional, because the spread of the virus, apart from generating the most important global health crisis suffered in recent times, is having strong social and economic consequences. As regards the impact on Catalonia's economic activity, data from the first quarter have already been seen. There has been a 4.2% reduction in GDP compared to the previous year, and tourism, restoration, trade and all activities related to culture and recreational arts and the sports sector are among the most decimated sectors, although we will hardly find any productive sector that has not been affected by the situation in one way or another. This impact has had a greater impact on households with lower incomes, significantly increasing the number of people who need and are going to need the Administration to survive. It serves as an example of the Food Bank, which has received 50% more families than before the pandemic. But the agreement reached within the framework of the European Council worries us about the part that has to do with the distribution of resources that have been made available to your Government. We are concerned that, as in the past, centralist management is being carried out and that the realities and knowledge of the situation from the municipalities or from the various territorial governments are not being taken into account; that the municipalities should be authorized to use the remnants, as we have been demanding. Last week, the Government of Catalonia also approved a historic agreement, the Pla de Recuperació Económica e Protecció Social. It details the agreed needs with actors outside the Generalitat, which have amounted to more than 30 billion. This is not a random figure; it is the resources we need to care for citizens, to vote for what they vote for, and to help these more punished sectors. Until today, we do not know what the criterion of distribution of these resources will be, but we fear the worst. You, who were asking for blank cheques, today you have to make sure they don't send you black men. But Europe requires reforms. We know that aid and loans must be accompanied by reforms which are not minor, which must be structural and which will affect the labour, social and financial fields. But what will those reforms be? Do they intend to decide unilaterally? Because, Mr Sánchez, the Council agreement was not easy - you know it well - but it is never easy to combine positions, interests and needs of all the members of a project that is supposed to be common. However, it is necessary to do so. And I'm telling you this because you're used to not negotiating the distribution of funds, for example, those for the fight for COVID. In Europe, they are closed and do not stand up from the table until the balance is reached between all the members. Here, you prefer to advance in press conference the distribution or measures that the next day announces to the presidents. When drawing up the Spanish reconstruction and reform plan, we ask you to be a little more European, Mr Sánchez, not to inform us of what you intend to do, but to take into account the perspectives, needs and interests of all the groups in this House and, by extension, of all the territories. At this point, it is about being efficient and effective. Europe has given a new opportunity, but its credibility is in question. Do it well for everyone's sake, Mr. Sanchez. Europe demands economic reforms. We demand democratic reforms. We demand that Spanish justice stop causing shame in Europe.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u35	Ma'am, Borràs, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u36	I'm done, Mr. President. Spanish justice needs an urgent reconstruction plan, starting with the prosecutor's office; that prosecutor's office that you so presume to know who it depends on. The suspension of the third degree shows that, in the case of political prisoners, justice is not administered, but revenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u37	Your Honor, it takes one more minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u38	I'm done. And your revenge is also your shame, Mr. Sanchez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u39	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I begin, I raise a question. Mr Married - and you know I have a lot of respect for you - I believe that the profession of counting dead is unfortunate, but it is also dangerous. In the Community of Madrid 11 500 older people have died in residences, which are almost one in four. Maybe that's why Ayuso has to come out now with the occurrence of the cartel. Before I count dead, I would first look at what the People's Party governments are doing. [[Applauds]] With regard to the agreement of the European Council, I do not think I am saying anything surprising if I say that it is an agreement that is far below what Spain proposed in April and far below what the European Parliament proposed. And they didn't put it on a whim, they put it on because it was what was deemed necessary. Not only is it below budget, but it is also below cutbacks. It is incomprehensible that this agreement should come out with cuts in R & D+i, cuts in ecological transition, and it is absolutely surreal that cuts should come out in a community health programme. The important thing, however, is not so much the question of figures as the political question. I have the feeling that the European Union, in fact, has decided to continue to exist because, if it did not react in this way, it ceased to make sense as a shared political and economic space, but to continue to exist, it has made a political turn - already started with the expansive policy of the European Central Bank - exactly the opposite or in a direction that was supposed to be impossible ten years ago. History, very often, is ungrateful. I have very little time, but I would like to spend six seconds recognizing all the people who, since 2008, fought the evil so-called austerity, because all those people were told that they were fools, that they didn't know about the economy, that they didn't know what they were doing, that they were irresponsible and that there was no way to follow, and when the European Union decides that it has to come out of its worst crisis, it turns out that it does so by giving reason to so many outraged people that it might not know about the economy but that it had a lot to say about how the accounts of the house and of the countries were ordered. I do not believe that this is a Marshall plan, but it is true that it issues joint or similar debt, that it raises its own resources - which is very important - and that, moreover, for the first time it assumes that it is legitimate to invest in social policy, and not only that it is legitimate, but that it is extraordinarily necessary. I don't think it's the solution, I don't think it's even the finish line, but it's the start line and, in that sense, it's an agreement that represents a great opportunity. It is like - if I am allowed the expression, quoting the writer Houellebecq - an extension of the battlefield, but now comes the battle, and the battle, in my opinion, there are two: one, that Europe is not just a kingdom of merchants and that the single market has political government, and two, a battle in Spain so that conditions do not mean more impoverishment and, above all, to break with the continental division of labor, which has long condemned us to be a colony of cheap work, sangria and brick. This is an opportunity we can't waste, and you don't have to remember - I think that's in everyone's mind - how easy it is to miss an opportunity like this. You will remember the funds for industrial conversion. Inertia, the weight of accumulated powers can make a great opportunity become a waste of resources and a waste of historical occasion. How these 140 billion are invested will depend on the future of several generations, but it will also depend - I dare say - on the viability of Spain as a country. Why does our economy suffer so much when some countries recommend not traveling to Spain? Why are we not taking measures that everyone knows would have to be taken but that perhaps governments don't dare to take because you can't stop the tourist season or the hotel season? For, fundamentally, because we are dependent on very few sectors of low innovation, low added value, low wages, as well as on a climate that continues to worsen and that does not seem to give us a break. That is why the choice before us is whether we are going to be a colony of precarious people dedicated to the monoculture of sangria and brick or we are going to be a sovereign country with an entrepreneurial state that leads an industrial policy of its own for an industry 4.0, for industrialization in green and clean energies - to manufacture, for example, wind turbines for the high seas - to lead efficient and non-polluting transport - for example, by converting Nissan's plants to make electric buses - or to lead a policy to have a public pharmacy with laboratories and with biotechnology research of its own. All that can be done here. We have the funds, we have the majority social consensus and we have the parliamentary majority to do so - and you have it - but that is why we must stop mistreating it on the day of the parliamentary process and stop mistreating it also by bloodbathing or beating the leaders of some of the formations that are then asked to vote for - I imagine - the General Budgets of the State. Look, the pandemic caught us weak in poverty, in inequality, in lack of own industry, in weakness of public services, and here we said historical speeches: the virus changes everything, we're going to get better... Who took care of us in the most difficult times? We were cared for by public health professionals and essential workers, often in precarious conditions. I ask you one question: Are any of these two sectors better? They're not better either. The doctors of the MIR right here in Madrid are on strike and the essential workers are still in precarious conditions, very difficult and afraid of whether or not they arrive at the end of the month. That means we have to prove that we don't depend on fear. It can't be that when fear comes here we make historical speeches - the virus changes everything, we will change everything - and as soon as fear passes let's go back to the walks. This is a historic opportunity, but it requires decision.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u41	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u42	Thank you, Mr President; just one sentence. You just announced VOX that you're filing a motion of censure. The Government will pass that motion of censure; however, the success of the Government - I have told you several times - does not depend on the passing of that motion of censure, it depends on the people below no longer living in fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u43	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Baldoví Roda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A previous question, I see that Mr Abascal is not here, but Mrs Olona can tell you; she is going to table a motion of censure and I now announce my vote, which will be a no like a house. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I would never vote for a candidate who talks about the self-employed and about raising the blind and who has never been paid a salary other than the party, a public salary or a little chiringuito without doing anything, as he himself acknowledges. I don't deserve any confidence. [[Applauds]] In Compromís we want to start by giving congratulations and some condolences. Congratulations to the President because we are genuinely happy; we believe that this is a good agreement and we are especially happy for the citizens and for that idea of Europe that was in danger. At the moment, I cannot fail to recall an anecdote that repeatedly tells my partner, Ana Oramas, and that, in the previous crisis of 2010, Mr Montoro said: Let Spain fall, that we will already raise it. For that, my condolences, first of all, to the anti-European cave because they come out of this European summit with fewer weapons, but above all my condolences to those who had their hope put on the 'worst, better' or in the words of Montoro, to those suffering from torticoli that came from turning their heads so much to see if the cave blows them in the cogote. And after the compulsory courtesy, let's talk about the important thing, let's talk about the future because you've talked little about the future; you've talked about the agreement, but you haven't talked about how this fund is going to be invested, what criteria it's going to have, how it's going to be prioritized, if there's conditions in Europe beyond those three announced, if there's going to be adjustments, if there's going to be autonomous communities and municipalities. This pandemic has been a health and economic disaster, but it can also pose a challenge to modernise the country and, since Compromís, we want to bring our Valencian gaze. We believe that in ecological transition we have to stop relying on fossil energy, we burn almost 40 billion every year in fossil energy and our dependence is 73%. That is why, in sustainable mobility, I believe that the Valencians have two major challenges: one, the Mediterranean corridor; the other, the coastal train, the connections with the airport of El Altet because the tourists - I finish - have no choice but the car. And then there is also a need for an urban transport law. Transport aid must reach all cities, all corners. Finally, I should like to mention the reduction of costs; the Spanish industries cannot afford the most expensive energy. We hope to be more equal and not more unequal, and we sincerely hope that people will be their priority. We look forward to your priorities. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u45	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, first of all - for knowing what we are talking about - the BNG is clear: this is a rescue. For many euphemisms that are used to sweeten it, and although it is clear that the conditions are a priori less draconian than in the past, the fact is that the Spanish State is being rescued by the EU; it will receive funds that will have to be returned in one form or another; one part would go to the repayment of the loan and another part, through the contribution to the Community budget, receiving less in other parts. A 10% reduction in CAP funds has already been announced and the same is expected to happen with cohesion funds. In both cases we are talking about a situation that is seriously damaging to my country's economy, to the Galician economy. Moreover, there are the conditions that will have to be met, and that is the big problem; the present conditionality of the destination of the subsidies, or future, in this case through what establishes the national plan of recovery and resilience, because today we are sold here what they think is positive - the injection of resources that it entails - and it will be for another time to establish what the reforms are going to be. That euphemism that always hides cuts in social rights and quality of life that always affects and, first of all, the popular classes and more importantly those of countries already punished for their situation of dependence, such as Galicia. In any case, in the face of the triumphalism displayed, this rescue, in our opinion, does not really represent a paradigm shift. In a Lampedusian turn, some things change so that the fundamentals do not change. And the EU does not change its position with regard to genuine debt-sharing through coronation, the role of the European Central Bank or the possibility of reviewing the debt of the countries most hit by COVID-19, through withdrawals or perpetual debt. In the EU the market always prevails over society and this crisis is no exception. If these measures are taken today, it is not out of solidarity, but in order to save the internal market of the European Union. Moreover, if this is an important background, and it is obvious, it is also clearly insufficient because the hole is larger. The resources that the Spanish State will receive will be short to deal with the liquidity crisis that will live in the coming years and will be late for many people. The fact that half are conditional subsidies will limit the ability to respond to the urgent need: the situation of the millions of people affected by the social and economic crisis. By the way, with loans can they at least use these resources to intervene and nationalize strategic companies in crisis and save jobs? Remember Alcoa San Cibrao and a whole region that continues to cry out: The vats don't stop and Alcoa doesn't blink! And yet - I conclude - there are important unknowns, especially how these resources are to be distributed in a way that is done with justice and offsetting the historical deficits of countries such as Galicia. In any case, the BNG will be aware of all this in the coming times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u47	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u48	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. Sanchez. Yes, it is true that today we come here to conclude a historic agreement for Spain and for the whole of the European Union. It is the agreement on the reconstruction funds and the multiannual financial framework, which is a milestone that effectively strengthens the Community project and will help Spanish families, European families, businesses and workers to resist this crisis. It is good news and, therefore, in Citizens we rejoice, as we always rejoice in the good news for our country. They will never find us in the policy of 'the worse, the better', to see if the government does it wrong and I can replace you the next time there are elections. No, no matter what the government in office, if it does well, there we are going to be helping a government that does well and, above all, supporting this magnificent European project, that political construction based on the ideals of many people who generously renounced their national borders in pursuit of a larger idea; building, building bridges, providing solutions, being useful, which are also the marks of identity of my party, of Citizens. The European Union has lived up to, acted quickly, acted forcefully, with huge mobilization of funds; it includes the issuance of the joint debt, it is articulated thanks to the determined commitment of many European leaders. And yes, we must thank these leaders who, however, seem to be the demon of the populists and nationalists: the President of the Council, Charles Michel; the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen; Angela Merkel, Emmanuel Macron, those people who hate their government partners so much and who have contributed, precisely, to achieving European solidarity, which they have always missed and which has so much been blamed on Europe from the left. For here is European solidarity, with the generosity of great European political leaders. I remember when I was young and Spain entered the European Union; I have been growing and the European project has grown and Spain has grown; it has grown in democracy and modernity because when Spain is doing well it is because Europe is doing well, because when Europe is doing well, Spain is doing well. Although, here in the House, we find groups, nationalists and populists who are trying to destroy the European project, who are trying to destroy Spanish democracy or who are trying to destroy both. It is curious that they are precisely at the ends of the parliamentary arch. They are not happy - it has already been seen in some of the speeches we have heard -: conditionality is bad, national sovereignty is abolished. No, it is good news that the European project is strong and that Spain is a great democracy because that is what we do Liberals, Conservatives and Social Democrats in Europe, we are Europeans, we support that common project. We must continue to do so, and not, Mr Sánchez, with his government partners or with the support of his Frankenstein Government who do not believe in Spain, one in Europe or the other. Mr. Sanchez, this is not the time for applause, no. I welcome the fact that I see a little bit more respect in the ranks of the Socialist Group, although most likely when you have to make your reply you will again bow to him with your applause and we will again fail to respect the rules of the vote neither to make pasillitos nor for self-congratulation nor for presumptuousness. No, it is time for discretion, work and responsibility because 45 000 Spaniards have died; because more than one million jobs have been destroyed; because the ERTEs are still pending and, those who are welcome to them, do not know if they are going to become ERE; because there are millions of families with fear, with uncertainty, who do not know if they are going to have enough to live, if they are going to be able to live decently. We must respect them, we must respect them, we must work for them with discretion and with great, great effort. We have two major country challenges: to meet the conditions that Europe puts us first, and to agree on the best investment of these funds and to implement it, which is not on the road. The aid, Mr Sánchez, is between 11 and 12 % of the gross domestic product. I know what a gazapo would have been, but it is that people want to see a government president who knows what he's saying and who knows what he's doing and, therefore, has to be right with these figures as well. We have heard Mr Rufián and we have heard the Galego Nationalist Block saying that these conditions that Europe puts us - typical populism and nationalism - are a yoke, they are going to be the cut tomorrow. No, they are not, as others have said from the rostrum, an assignment of intangible national sovereignty; no, they are the expression of European solidarity. We need these reforms, we have an opportunity to reform our country. I am grateful that you have said this from here, from the rostrum, as well as some other parliamentary group. We are responsible for these reforms from wisdom, moderation, seeking solutions and thinking about giving our children a better Spain. We have that unspeakable obligation and, above all, you have it as President of the Government. We can't let that train pass, we have to get to state agreements, we have to get to pacts. We cannot leave ourselves in the hands of populisms and nationalisms because we have only two paths: a straight path, the shortest distance between the Government and the suffering of the people, the path of moderation, of wisdom, the path on which Citizens will accompany you; or that other long and tortuous path on which you want to rely on your government partners or on those who supported your investiture, on the demagogic populisms or on the nationalists who are trying to break our country. On that path will never be my party. We have that great opportunity to make those reforms that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have never reached, have always left them pending. I told him the other day at the control session on Wednesday; unemployment, deficit, debt, corruption, school dropout, all outstanding tasks. No government has met the deficit targets, the only time it was met was when Citizens supported the budgets of the People's Party in 2017. But what do you say to me about labour market reform, we have also missed the opportunity to adapt the labour framework to the 21st century and the challenges of the digital age, with a huge unemployment rate doubling the European average, with precarious employment, with waste contracts. We must put an end to temporary employment. Are you going to follow, Mr Sánchez, arguing that the labour reform with which you are falling in Spain must be completely repealed? I hope and wish I didn't. I hope that you will come up to this rostrum and say, at last, no, that you have a vision of the future and listen to the social partners. In addition, eight ideological counter-reforms in education, the worst results in PISA reports, the failure to integrate our students into employment, the emigration of people who do not have opportunities in Spain and have to leave. Seventeen different models of selectivity, investments per student that in some parts of the Spanish territory are up to double that in others; a climate of inequality in education. There is a need for a university reform that will put an end to university endogamy and provide transparency, education for employment and quality university education. There is a need to support concerted education and special education, which is why the opinion of the social policy working group of the reconstruction pacts did not come out. 25% of students study in this teaching, many exemplary teachers and many parents who choose this teaching that is also public. You can correct in the budgets. Innovation, the great forgotten, is also a feature which is very limited in the multiannual financial framework. Please dedicate in the budgets amounts to innovation, the eternally pending subject of our country and that makes people also leave our country looking for other opportunities. It strengthens the health system with more resources, more professionals and better salaries. We have to take care of those who take care of us. I propose, as my political group did in the previous legislature, that national pact against depopulation. Let us devote part of these European funds precisely to equal opportunities in all places of Spain, in order to try to equal those who live in the towns with those who live in the cities, because forty years of bipartisanism, with the concessions that have been made to nationalism looking in the short term at an investment or budgets, have led us to an investment of public money that has created unjustifiable territorial inequalities. There cannot be people in villages who do not have access to a pediatrician, Internet broadband or minimally decent infrastructure. They comply with Spain and Spain does not comply with them. We are reforming the Administration, rather than agitating it, rather than creating superfluous spending, rather than increasing the political apparatus, whose most significant example is that of its Government, the most expensive in the history of democracy. We must have an agile and effective administration. You know why? Because in the European aid for the 2014-2020 period it turns out that Spain is the second worst European country in its implementation, with 31 % of expenditure that has not been committed and 67 % of money that has not been disbursed. In order to be able to implement these 140 billions that come from Europe, we need a thorough reform of the administration, to speed it up, to be effective, to be independent, to be technical, not to be an administration that simply serves political objectives. I have already shown you the right path: moderation, wisdom, the opposite of populism and radicalism; that path that we together forge in Europe Liberals, Conservatives and Social Democrats. It is the time for the agreement, it is the time to achieve the same in Spain as we have done in Europe, the same: to agree with those we think differently. You have said this from here, from the rostrum; that you have sat down with people who think differently than you and have reached agreements. Do it here in Spain too, I ask you, my group asks you, the Spaniards demand it: put Spain above the acronyms, the ideology, the mere desire to remain in power. Let us bet on unity and not on division, on solutions and not on problems and, above all, on wisdom and not on pride, because insults do not save jobs, banishments do not cure rebounds and party battles and trench warfare are only part of the problem, and we are paid to find solutions. Don't forget about the farmers. It has also been said from here, the multi-annual financial framework greatly lowers these items, you are obliged to help farmers, farmers and fishermen; they have been heroes, they have kept alive the flame of hope while ending the pandemic. Talk to the opposition and the social partners, I asked him on Wednesday also from my seat that we would already open a working table to start negotiating the application of these funds in public accounts, sensible and responsible, and I also ask the rest of the groups in this House: to be up to it, to be generous, to think in Spain above the acronyms. There will be Citizens, and if he is with Citizens in those accounts there will be those of privileges, those of inequality, those of blackmail; they will not want to be there because he can only take one of those two paths: the straight path or the long and tortuous path of populists and nationalists. We need state pacts, shock plans, investments that really reach the Spaniards, foresight, pragmatism and height of sight, thinking about the general interest. I would like to give you an example of what has happened in the tourism sector; you have arrived late, now the Foreign Minister is trying to save the furniture by negotiating with Britain, and I hope that she will succeed, but how can we swallow Mr Simon's statements, who is glad that the British are not coming to Spain? Doesn't it put itself in the shoes of families living on tourism, of those people who don't know how they're going to reach the end of the month or are going to feed their families? Go up to the rostrum and deny Mr. Simon, give a breath of hope to those families, put yourself on their skin, they are afraid. Get out of the palace of Moncloa, look into the eyes of these people and their hope. I hope that we will be able to correct this harmful management of the Government with regard to tourism, and I would like to do so. It's time for empathy, putting yourself in people's shoes. It's time for forecasting, not for burning fires or saving furniture. It is time for equality; the nationalists will never thank him with loyalty for all the concessions he can grant them, and the rest of Spain will not forgive him. It is not the time for contempt or for prepotence or populism or inequality, it is not the time to give in to blackmail. Take the right path I offer you and we'll go that way together. The whole nation depends on you, we need the country to move forward and it is time that you are up to it, it is your responsibility to give Spain a chance. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, last week you returned from Brussels to this really satisfied House, I would say that even euphoric considering the long round of applause that you received in Moncloa first from your colleagues in the cabinet and then from your correspondents when you entered this House. Despite the picturesque, exaggerated, which made some people blush, I cannot reproach you for the satisfaction that could personally impound you. It does not hurt me to say that the step that Europe is about to take, because it has not yet done so, is an absolutely revolutionary decision in the history of the European institutions, and it does not diminish the fact that the amounts initially projected have finally been somewhat smaller than those announced, because the volume remains very considerable. That Europe is going to be in debt and issue bonds for the first time to finance future deficits in the form of pooled debt, as a guarantee of the European Union budget, is a great novelty that we would probably not have seen come true if the depth of the crisis had not forced it, and thanks to the fact that on this occasion Germany and France did not only see the European project in danger, but also their own economies, now inextricably linked to the continental project. The risk of social and, consequently, political involution that could be guessed on the horizon, with obvious danger of the growth of totalitarian parties that buried the ideal and principles of the European idea, has acted as an alarm siren. It will be necessary to see whether Europe is able to capture this money quickly and effectively, but above all, it will be necessary to see whether all the parliaments of the Twenty-Seven finally vote in favour of the agreement. The fall in GDP is going to be much bigger than what they announce from the government. The employment loss data known yesterday is overwhelming, unprecedented, in the last quarter 1 100 000 people. I wish it wasn't, but its growth curve in grapes is more a desire than a reality, even more so with the brutal fall of a sector like tourism with which it was expected to go back significantly this year. And that is not going to be the case in the industrial sphere either. We told them several times that their forecasts were incorrect both in falling GDP and in collection. They didn't want to listen to us. For you from July this was going to go like silk because there was already a clear improvement in the economy at the end of June. That is not the case, it is not going to be the case, and if they were not clear, they should now consider maintaining some of the ERTE sectors beyond the deadline set today. I sincerely believe that the final decision that Brussels should control and give its approval to the allocation of funds is a good idea. That idea that money was going to come as a kind of condition-free manna was little less than a chimera and, moreover, I don't think it would have been exactly right. In this collective European effort, the last risk we have to take is to waste, and we have already known some examples. He said that reform plans aimed at creating jobs and sustainability must be presented, of which 30% are intended for climate emergencies. It is not just a question of presenting these plans, they must be approved by the Council on the basis of proposals from the Commission by a qualified majority representing fifteen states and 65% of the population. And this does not mean that those who disagree have no mechanism, the so-called emergency brake sends any doubt or discrepancy from another country as to the application of the funds to its debate and review at the European Council. If we think that this money is to cover this fall in GDP, we will be wrong; it must serve to lay the foundations and that Spain goes up by driving through new tractor sectors the Spanish economy, so that it prepares for the future and can improve its resilience to future crises by consolidating the internal market and making a leap in competitiveness. In short, it must be used to foster and lay new foundations for the productive economy and, in this regard, public-private collaboration is essential for a correct approach. The entrepreneurial commitment and contribution they can make from new concrete projects is a key part of the work to be carried out in the coming months. I do not miss that we run the risk of each economic operator trying to attract aid for his sector regardless of the consistency of the investment. In fact, there will be a lot of pressure to divert direct aid to sectors in the near future that do not serve to reverse the situation. But, I insist, the work of the institutions must be precisely to promote public-private collaboration, to discern and to know how to choose. We are faced with an opportunity to transform the foundations of the economy and sustainability, and we must take advantage of it. That unemployment rate, which has been structurally maintained for decades as one of the highest in Europe, must be eliminated. If we do the same again, if we propose the usual to spend the money on the usual, Brussels will say no. If anyone believes that this is going to be a simple interinstitutional distribution of money on the basis of generic classifications of where the expenditure will be allocated, they are wrong. It is a question of approving specific projects in directions already established at European level. If anyone believes that, once granted, Brussels will look elsewhere, they are wrong. Brussels will validate the implementation of the projects annually. There will be rigorous supervision of a decision-making nature. If anyone believes that the disbursement of the money will be immediate, they are wrong. Think more about the time-to-time collection through a system that can remind us of something similar to work certifications: collect only after running phases and whether the work is well on the way. For this reason, I am surprised by statements from Moncloa sources that state that now the legislature is saved because there will be enough money to satisfy everyone in the budget. Firstly, as I have already explained, this is not the case; rather, otherwise. Secondly, the adoption of a budget and the continuation of a legislature are not limited to distributing money. The money is not going to fix the endemic problems of the state that existed before the pandemic, that will exist afterwards and that are frequently manifested in this House, starting with the national question as regards Basque and Catalonia: the management of ideological diversity. No, money doesn't fix everything, not a budget or a legislature. It is time for the Government's goal to stop being to overcome the next curve on the road. Now that curve is the budget. It is time for the Government to begin to think less mediaically and more with a vision of the future, setting a path with objectives beyond remaining in power, assuming that it is in a minority and that it must seek and consolidate its support with a different attitude towards its potential parliamentary partners, rather than giving continuous bandages in each vote. That requires compromises and acceptance of the stubborn reality. Beyond all that and picking up the thread of my intervention, the big question is: will Spain be able to use all the funds that might correspond to it? Another thing would be incomprehensible, but it is not a rhetorical question. Experience has shown that Spain does not implement European funds year after year, either because of lack or inadequacy of projects, or because of excessive bureaucracy or slow decision-making. The data is that in the last six years Spain was able to spend only 33% of the European funds that came to cover 70% co-financed projects; funds as emblematic, for example, as Feder or Feeder, which already have as their basis the key lines of the future Next Generation EU programme: job creation, economic and social resilience - that is, transformative capacity -, ecological transition and digital transition. I insist that these funds have not far exceeded 30% of the expenditure of the amount that was available. The key is to build future projects and these future projects must be conveyed through institutional collaboration. The document on Europe, adopted in the Committee on Reconstruction recently in this Congress, specifically states that when preparing and raising such projects - i.e., what is usually called the ascending phase - the autonomous communities must be counted and they must also participate in the process of implementing and controlling the projects, in what is to be called the descending phase. But these aids aren't coming in tomorrow morning. It will be approved by 70% in 2021 and 2022, mainly on the basis of the unemployment rate, and by 2023 the remaining 30%, underlining the degree of loss of GDP. However, action is needed now, and this will require the use of debt and the relaxation of stabilizing measures at all institutional levels. It makes no sense that the local, autonomous and outlying institutions that enjoy surpluses today cannot use it because of constraints designed for very different times than the current ones and that your Government, Mr President, refuses to update. By the way, it sounds like a joke to pretend that local entities are giving up their surplus to the government and the government, in return, partially lifts the spending limits for a partial amount by a partial percentage, even more so when the majority of the House is asking it not to go that way. That is why it is also essential that the Joint Committee on the Basque Economic Concert and the Navarro Convention be convened to fix the debt and deficit agreements. When spokesmen of the Spanish Government and their environment are heard to tell the dam that they are already working and that the budget drawing will be designed in August to comply with the timetable set by the law, it is surprising that Basque and Navarra institutions, which depend on their strict tax collection and not on transfers, are prevented from knowing their budget landscape, making planning impossible. It's unfair from every point of view. And it is, of course, that debt authorization agreement that must cover the entire fall of the collection. It is even more unfair when you are not asking for money, but to be able to be in debt, and it will be the Basque and Navarra institutions that respond to these payments. By the way, as I said at the time to Mr Rivera - they will remember him - the Basque institutions not only face their debt without anyone's help, but also contribute to the payment of the State's debt on 6.24 of the payment of their interests and on 6.24 of their amortization. In conclusion, Mr Vice-President. We applaud the agreement adopted in the Next Generation EU Plan and the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027. We welcome the existence of a system of co-decision on the destination and use of funds. We believe that this is an opportunity to eliminate structural deficits in the economy that hinder the reduction of unemployment. And I would like to make it very clear that from Euskadi we are prepared to contribute our knowledge and our vision within the framework of programmes and with concrete projects that are in line with the axes set by Europe. We are confident that the decisions taken and drafts submitted by the State will have our point of view. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u51	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Iñarritu García, on behalf of the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u52	Egun on. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Mr President of the Government, thank you for coming here today to tell us what happened in the Council. I recognize that I was also going to start by talking about applause and showing my surprise, but seeing that representatives of extreme right and neo-liberal right groups have applauded speeches supporting cuts and austerity and speeches clearly xenophobic and racist, I will not say anything about applause. But I will tell you, without acrid, that we are surprised by the enthusiasm given what the situation is. On the socio-economic front, we have heard today about the loss of one million jobs in these months, which is worrying. Similarly, with regard to the health situation, we are talking about a second outbreak; Mr Illa will tell us that no, but there are reports that make us worried. Also, with regard to the political situation, yesterday we saw that several of the Catalan political prisoners again saw themselves suffering a new revenge as their prison rights were restricted. We are also concerned about the impunity that we are seeing in the face of the evils committed in the Royal House and that efforts should be made, instead of giving more transparency, more light and ending that impunity, to create an image of exemplary philipism in the face of an already defeated and bad juancarism. And, of course, centralization; we are seeing a lot of talk about plurinationality, of respect, but then we see how some of the measures have a lot of centralists. What do you want me to say about the European agreement? We do not think it is bad; it is not bad that funds come from the European Union. How bad they're going to be in this situation! But we also believe that they do not solve everything, that they are not enough and that, in the same way, other measures will have to be applied, in which it will have to be decided whether to cut from above or to cut from below. He said one of the spokespersons of the nationalist right that, with which he is falling, how they are going to implement the labor reform at this time. For this very reason, to protect women workers at this time. We receive news from Euskal Herria from companies such as ITP, Tubacex, Siemens, Gamesa, Aernnova, at clear risk; risk of losing thousands of jobs and families at risk in their work. We think it is important that social shielding is just and precisely right now. Another spokesman said that some were concerned about the conditionality of such funds, aid and credits. Of course, there's the secret; there's no free money, he hasn't touched a lottery, beyond - as I said - that's not enough with the one he's falling down with. As a Basque citizen, I am also concerned about the distribution. You, who repeat very much that you are among the most decentralized states in the world and in Europe - which I believe is not true, but, well, that is not today's debate - are you going to apply it in this context of funds? Is this decentralization going to be taken into account? He said - and it is true - that the European Union has applied this distribution, in which Spain is going to play a fifth, to the areas most affected by the pandemic. Is that criterion also going to be ad intra, within the state? I would like in your next speech to clarify a little bit what the picture is for the distribution. Mr President, I am convinced that negotiation has not been easy; I am sure it has been complex, but I also believe that we need to speak clearly to citizens. And all that about what we have talked about so much, about conditionality and what it can mean, especially in everything that has to do with credits, that it is going to result in indebtedness in the state and that that could have consequences a posteriori of reforms. Because they say: this has nothing to do with the 2008 crisis and the rescue measures implemented by the European Union. Of course. The black gentlemen are not coming. I hope they don't come, but those gentlemen aren't missing; they're teleworking, they're teleworking and they're implementing the measures they already had. And they do have a plan and have reforms, and those reforms involve privatizations, expanding the working age, lowering pensions, privatizing pensions. And his spokesman - who is no longer in this House - Mr Casado, who defends these measures, was already advancing them. In short, every income is positive and more in the face of this situation, but we believe that it is not time for triumphalism or enthusiasm, as one tries to sell in some cases, especially because these funds have made commitments on the part of States and we do not think that they have been sufficiently explained. You were reporting on what has happened in the last few months in the European Union. On some points I agree and share, on others not so much. I do not believe that the European Union has set an example for what needs to be done, for the pandemic. I believe that the first stress test the European Union has had since its founding failed to respond properly. What's more, do you remember when you were talking about that this wasn't territory, it was people, and the first thing they did was close the borders and the second thing they sent the Army to them? It is true that now, because of the need - and that need was mentioned by Mr Esteban - when there have been states, and the European Union as a whole, which have seen the euro area at risk have implemented and strengthened this agreement. And I also remember that quote from General Patton who recalled the previous spokesman in another plenary when he said that pressure makes diamonds. Well, the pressure has led us to this agreement, which - I say, without being pessimistic and saying that it is negative - has certain conditions. Similarly, with regard to the agreement, I believe it has not been exemplary. Seeing a struggle of rich states against the poor, from north to south, I think it is not what citizens expected, and regarding that the agreement or that the European Union has arrived quickly and well, I think it has arrived slowly and not in the best way because there are some complications - and you commented - as is the emergency brake. This, which has been approved in practice, implies that the mechanism allows any State to paralyse aid for three months if it disagrees with the expenditure incurred by the recipient country. Do you believe that no State is going to stick to some of the plans or mechanisms that apply? Obviously, yes. Similarly, the amounts are at six years' notice and also when they are finished there will be no more, because it is a one-off agreement, and in addition the possibilities of re-edition in seven years are exhausted because they are linked to the multiannual financial plan. In the same way, as Mr Errejón also said - this is what he has to say about the last ones, that many of the things that are being said have already been put forward by others and other speakers - it is not what they aspired to and it is a third of what the European Parliament had approved. Of the EUR 2 billion requested by the European Parliament for the fund - a figure more than justifiable - it is a third. I mean, it's okay, but it's not enough. And what's missing? At European level, I believe that it is not possible to deny from a progressive point of view that it imposes on large technological companies, for example, or to end tax dumping, or - or rather - to end those tax havens that also exist within the European Union and that so much like some real houses and some gentlemen of the bracelet or of the flag on the mask, which I see you have also been encouraged. So, what's the matter? As I said, the conditions are worrying and, above all - and as our MEP said last week, Mr Barrena - that the funds are going to arrive highly macroeconomically conditioned by the European Semester in the case of transfers and by the limit of expenditure and indebtedness in the case of loans and sovereign debt will be triggered. And when this happens, the agreement allows States such as the Netherlands to withdraw and other States to imitate or store them in order to force intervention, and that is precisely what worries us that, for the time being, the macroeconomic conditionality that will accompany these funds can put in serious difficulties a programme of progressive policies not only by his Government but by any Government, because there are six years left, and if everything has changed so much in two years - where we were two years ago! - to know what can happen within another six years. As the Basque philosopher Daniel Innerarity said recently, the time for certainties has run out, and it is true that playing it all at six years is going on, and we are at a time when - as he said earlier - we need to talk about cuts from above or below, and we are talking about the million jobs lost. My colleague Oskar Matute recently said that the fortune of the twenty-three richest Spaniards increased by 16% during those same months of the loss of the million jobs; according to Forbes, they have earned more than EUR 14 billion. This gives us an idea of where progressive policies can be implemented, and I will tell you clearly. This variable geometry concerns us, in the same way, its winks to the right, and - how not - the agreements they sign. You said that it is important to push agreements, and I agree, but it is more important to comply with them; it is important to comply with them. So, if you agree with right-wing and ultra-right-wing formations, you'll have us in front of you. Now - and we have told you this by both active and passive - if your policies tend to create a social shield, you will have us next door and you will be able to negotiate with us. [[The lady]] Another big issue - and I mentioned it earlier - is how these funds are going to be distributed. We would like you to explain this to us and also what you are going to do with the Joint Commission on the Basque Concert and the Navarro Convention; it is the bodies that should also say how these funds are distributed in the Basque-Navarro area, but there is no sign that this is going to happen. So if you can move on, we'd appreciate it. The same thing happened with the COVID Fund, which these institutions continue to expect to negotiate and agree on, because you will remember the debt agreement of the municipalities that was signed in April and which is not yet known. European Funds, COVID Fund, borrowing capacity of municipalities.... The issues to be resolved by the Basque-Navarra institutions are accumulating and we do not see the will to do so. That is why I believe it is important not only to comply with the statutes and transfers, but also to comply with the agreements. Finally, these funds will also mark the budgets your Government intends to implement and we would therefore like to know more about conditionality and the measures to be implemented. Not only with regard to aid or funds directly, but also with regard to what is going to happen with labour reform. I insist, it is vital, it is very important right now - when thousands and thousands of jobs are being lost every day - to shield and protect the most vulnerable sectors. It seems that in his Government there are sectors that want to prevent this from happening. We believe that it is important to protect these people and prevent companies from firing thousands of workers for free. In short - and I finish - we will not be aghast, it seems to us that there are funds, we believe it is positive, of course. However, the health condition, the socio-economic condition causes us to be concerned, like everyone else, and I think that there is no one - beyond the words that Mr Baldoví said earlier about those who hoped that Spain would fall to lift it up - who would rejoice in the situation. And worrying about the situation, we think it's time to shield the social shield. Therefore, I insist: if this goes from cuts, if it goes from austerity, you can look to the other side of the bench. If it's a social shield, you can talk to us and us. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now in its turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u54	Good morning, President. President, its numerous references to the Marshall Plan are quite clear about the political situation, because it is well known that the reverse of the Marshall Plan was a very concrete political condition: the expulsion of the communist parties from the Governments of France, Italy, Belgium and Luxembourg, which were precisely the most risky, had more fought against Nazifascism, but the United States put those political conditions to such economic aid. You also said that the Spanish State did not receive them, but the truth is that later it did receive economic aid from the United States, which was vital, by the way, for the survival of Francoism. In other words, the priority of the United States' international policy was never to defend democracy, but rather to fight against the progress of the Soviet Union and communism. In any case, what shows us is that international aid is always linked to political objectives and the doubt is what reforms will be required of you when you present the right plans to the European Commission, bearing in mind that in the European Union you continue to command the same neoliberal social and political sectors that drowned Greece at the time. Yes, some changes have been made to the evidence. It was clear that the crisis in the European Union could be much more serious, that Germany needs to continue its exports and also that after the Brexit it could grow even more Euroscepticism. But we do know what these neoliberal reforms are about, which are usually required of States: pension cuts, cuts in the public sector, low wages, which call legal certainty for investors, which often means that social laws and environmental laws are not put in place so as not to bother them. Such funds could be used to distribute work and wealth, to transform the economy, but the doubt is important: can the Spanish State transform its economy if it has not recovered anything from the bank rescue, if it has allowed companies with subsidiaries in tax havens to receive aid, if the tax on wealth is practically a taboo, if it has continued with a mode of development of more cement, more highways, more airport tracks, ignoring what is evidence: that the planet is not infinite? Can you then make these economic transformations if the precariousness of work is maintained, failing to the promise so many times given by the PSOE to repeal the labor reform? In short, can these economic transformations be made when corruption is so installed in the business system, starting with the Bourbon monarchy? Can economic transformations be made without a break with the power of IBEX 35? We, the independenceists, the peoples who want independence, also want that independence to transform our economies, to transform them into more self-centered, less dependent economies, with quality work that allows us to live better and that also allows us to increase internal demand to put the economy at the service of ecological transformations and to put life and, therefore, care at the centre. However, with this government what we are expecting are cuts, cuts that will be imposed on it from the European Union. You did not say that, but what value does your word have when you became president criticizing the judicialization of the Catalan independence process and yesterday we knew that the prosecutor's office that you have appointed on your proposal acts with total continuity, reminding Catalan independence prisoners that they are political prisoners? What value does your word have, Mr. Sanchez?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u55	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, I want to tell you that it has been a good agreement for Europe, it has been a good agreement for Spain and it has been a good agreement for the Canary Islands, against any foresight. We were playing the survival of the European project, we were playing the game that this country could have the help to get out of the most terrible crisis and we were playing the game that the Canarian community could not have the tools, and above all that it will compensate for remoteness and insularity. Despite being a summit on the future of Europe, four articles of this European agreement include the Canary Islands as an ultraperipheral region, with policies that Europe recognizes to compensate for that remoteness and insularity, something that its party and Podemos in the Reconstruction Commission did not do, except for Mr Héctor Gómez with me in the European region; but in the Reconstruction Commission his party and Podemos refused to recognize that ultraperificity and those rights of the canaries. But this is about to begin. We need to clarify the subject of POSEI aid in the agricultural sector and the subject of Brexit for the agricultural sector in the Canary Islands as well - POSEI and Brexit - and, above all, that at the moment the Canary Islands is in 50% unemployment and ERTE. As Ángel Víctor said yesterday, the Canary Islands has poverty and poverty if this is not resolved. Yesterday the autumn reservations of many of the British tour operators were cancelled. Canary Islands - I am referring to the agreement that we had with you and Mr Ábalos - needs guarantees that in the tourism sector the ERTE will be extended if necessary until December, but we must know already, because we cannot allow the business fabric to be destroyed. At the moment we are in 50% unemployment in the working population and many hotels have already decided not to open, even now. Our high season is winter and no society can endure 60 or 70% unemployment. What I am asking you to do is to work, to work for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture and to have the Canary Islands on your agenda, because, just as you justified in Europe that Spain was the most affected and the one most in need of such aid, if you apply that criterion within Spain the Canary Islands is the most affected, the one that has the greatest difficulty and the worst data on the economic issue. That is why we are going to reach out to him, but we are not going to bite him; we are going to reach out to him for this country and for my land, as we have always done, with a sense of state and with the ability to reach agreements. But don't bite us, like they've done in the last few months. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, in fact, there was not a single recipe for getting out of crises or for dealing with crises, of course not. Those of us who were disappointed here saying that the outing of the 2008 crisis was a nonsense that was going to cause enormous suffering, a huge degradation of public services and of people's living conditions, not only were we not wrong, but it seems that we were right. That is why the European Union, before taking the decisions it has taken and a different path, the so-called Keynesian road - although that, like everything, has many discussions - turns out that it first had to apologize to Greece, then to Portugal and now, in order not to apologize further, it seems that it abandons the line of austereicide, of folly, of punishing the weak, of rewarding the strong and, in general, those responsible for the crisis, as happened the previous time. Then we hit our chests because we don't understand why the health system and social protection systems don't stand up well to a pandemic and we take a surprise. Well, from New Canarias you already know that we have our particular battle, which is the need for recognition of the ultraperipheral status of the Canary Islands. Surprisingly, this agreement has not only recognized the singularities, but has strengthened the presence and policies for the outermost regions, including the Canary Islands. This is absolutely crucial, i.e. that the co-financing figure has remained at 85% is absolutely spectacular, as well as that the structural funds have increased to EUR 40 per person per year. That is to say, this is a recognition by the European Union of the ultraperipheral condition. Now we don't try to water the party, we have to congratulate you on the work - everything can be taken away from you - but it is also true that, if the agreement is good, I don't tell you how bad the present and the future are in the same dimension if we don't act properly. I trust that the Government understands that this cannot be done alone, that we must have the autonomous communities, that we must have the local corporations. It is necessary to correct and rectify the issue of the use of the surplus of public administrations - of local corporations, basically -. And finally, a very important issue. We have made a motion - with this I finish, Madam President - on a unique tourist treatment for the Canary Islands. I would ask you, in view of the spirit of this motion, to set up safe tourist corridors, to put everything that must be put on the table in order to avoid ailments such as the one being done by the United Kingdom in this case, which I believe is more out of ignorance than for another reason, because the epidemiological situation in the Canary Islands does not advise measures such as those taken. The damage is absolutely gigantic. I trust the cooperation with the autonomous communities and the hard work of the Spanish Government in defending the interests in this case of the Canary Islands, as well as the whole State, because that is really what is needed. Thank you very much for your generosity, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u60	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, Mr President, we are facing a good agreement for Spain. It is a good agreement because it gives us oxygen at a time of asphyxiation and it is also a good agreement for Europe because it strengthens the Union's project. If it is true that in 2008 many of us thought that the Union had acted late, slow, discompassed and on time, today we have seen that the European Union has been up to it. The question that must now be asked is whether your Government is going to live up to it, because it is precisely up to it that it is up to it to do the necessary reforms that this country needs. And in order to make these reforms, a number of things are required: firstly, to make drastic changes in their policies; secondly, to move away from the path of populism and begin to travel the path of orthodoxy, and, thirdly, to generate confidence in Europe. Of course, we have seen that your Government does not generate much confidence, and I am not surprised that it does, because you neither walk with the best partners nor have you given some samples to distrust, such as last year's deficit target. But it is true that Europe's money alone will not guarantee recovery: it will be guaranteed by reforms. The fund is not for watering with millions of euros populist politics, while drying up the future of Spain. The fund is precisely to make the reforms that this country needs to meet the challenges of the present and the future. As I say, this is a good deal, but there is no reason for euphoria either. And, of course, for what there is no reason is for applause, Mr President. Many Spaniards feel shame, stubbornness and even indignation when the members of the Governing Council applauded him on his arrival at the Council of Ministers and when some groups in this House praised him today and last week at the entrance, because I believe he does not understand the dramatic moment our country is experiencing. People wonder what exactly is applauded. Is it applauded that our country is the second country in the world to have managed this pandemic worse? Is it applauded that Spain has 50,000 fatal victims and that there are so many people in this country and so many families still suffering from the disease? What is being applauded is that there are a million jobs lost in just one quarter, three million people in ERTE, many of whom are still uncollected, many self-employed by lowering the blind of their business or many people getting their hands on the head because they don't know what's going to happen to their company? What is applauded, to be at the door of a social and economic crisis that has no precedent in the history of the last decades of our country? Many Spaniards are tired of frivolity, propaganda and even sarcasm. I believe that if everyone in this House has a huge responsibility at a time like this, those in the blue bank have that multiple responsibility, because they have a duty to move forward and to push forward the reforms that Spain needs. There is no Spain for applause, nor can this House afford such frivolity for any longer. I'm done with two questions. The first is that, as the agreement is positive, it also has shortcomings, and it has them, for example, on the subject of the CAP. The cut-off to the CAP is a severe blow to farmers and farmers, and the government cannot turn its back on them. In the case of Navarra, it is a strategic sector for our community. You spoke of exhausted work in Brussels: exhausted work is that of farmers and farmers, who on top are badly stuck and have to go out in the sun, cold or rain. Finally, the European agreement has been a sign of generosity, and that generosity must now also be borne by the Government of Spain with the autonomous communities. I'm asking Navarra. Navarra has been a historically supportive community with the whole of Spain, and we are now one of the communities most affected by the coronavirus. That is why we ask you to be generous with our land, not to be left out of any of the recovery funds, and to give Navarre, in the framework of the convention, in these bilateral negotiations between governments, what is right and in solidarity with it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u62	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Regionalist Party of Cantabria we also welcome the agreement of last week's European Council. We can discuss whether this agreement is better or worse than everyone intended, but the important thing is that there has been an agreement and therefore that means that there are good things for Spain. Well, now we have to apply it. I have read this document carefully from the conclusions of the summit, and although many things remain open, there is enough material for us to come up with an idea of what can be done with this aid package and we need to get to work. I take the opportunity to reiterate two things that we have been saying since the PRC in recent months: first, that Spain is an autonomous state and that measures must be put in place from the central government and the autonomous communities - in the agreement of the European Council it is very clear that Europe is a set of regions, and so it is continuously documented - and, second, that a pact between the two main political forces of this Congress is generally necessary; it would have more guarantees of success than with the precarious agreements, the precarious support that this government has, as is being demonstrated in one plenary yes and another also in any initiative. As I said in my last speech specifically concerning European aid, we must not be fooled, because the amount of this aid is not even close to the new needs that have emerged from the pandemic. It is enough to point out that the European Union's budget, of the order of EUR 150 billion per year, is 1% of all European GDP, while public expenditure is of the order of 40% of all states. The impact of the pandemic this year alone, let's put, will be about 10% and the amount of aid in the multiannual financial framework is about 1%. With these numbers you judge what remains to be done in the internal order of each country, of all countries. And I also have to repeat what has been said in relation to the Autonomous Communities: once again there is a matter of division, and they do not repeat what they have done in recent months, which has been to make decisions on fait accompli, without even possibility of making suggestions. They have distributed the COVID fund using unilaterally decided criteria and parameters, and that does not correspond to the essence of our autonomous State, not even to the whole of the cost-sharing, of public expenditure. In Cantabria we have been mistreated not only by the end result, but because we have not been heard, as has happened to other autonomous communities. And here we say the same thing as in Europe, that in most of the criteria it must be taken into account that the population does not even consider it to be a relevant factor and that the guarantee of the least possible error is to reach an agreement among all.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u63	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u64	At any rate, in Cantabria we are putting the piles to adopt a strategy in the shortest possible time and we are looking forward to learning about the Government's strategy, also to checking its commitments to Cantabria and which must be fulfilled in July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, on your return from the European Council you were enthusiastically welcomed by your ministers and by the parliamentarians who support you in Congress. Making a parenthesis of dubious taste in the midst of the tragedy of the coronavirus, which already adds to the order of 45 000 dead, celebrated its unconditional, forced approval in extremes of European aid, despite the fact that its terms do not correspond to what I raised in this rostrum on 18 March, when I proposed that the European Union demand a Marshall plan in line with the needs caused by COVID-19. Spain has before it an enormous panorama of complexity, which is exacerbated by the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, to which are added the alarming resurgences, which have again placed us at the head of Europe as the most affected country. Neither the March nor the present are coincidences, Mr Sánchez, are the consequences of your marketing and advertising policy, which serves to fill in the news, but not to stop the virus. Distracted in news reports, you and your Government are again catching the rebounds in Babia, with the passage changed, because you neither took the necessary preventive measures nor responded to the recommendations of other countries to protect Spain as a tourist destination, and, when you find out about the newspapers and want to react, it is late to avoid the ruin of a sector that has been striving for three months to offer protocols, which were ignored by the Government. The funds of enthusiasm will mean a cut in aid for our farmers and farmers, as well as for rural development and the CAP. The catastrophic data of the EPA in the second quarter augurs for a desolating future for the main priority of the Spaniards, which is nothing other than job creation. And all this with a government that applied customer and discriminatory criteria to distribute the covid fund among autonomous communities, as in the case of Asturias, that has been damaged and suffers also the inaction to protect the turbulent interests of the industry both in Spain and in Brussels. In short, our Government is going to tow events and its fervour over the European reconstruction agreement does not correspond to the increasingly worrying day-to-day situation of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u68	President, President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last four months we have witnessed a series of important changes, with a global and undoubtedly historical scope, which currently affect Spanish society in a very serious way: the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic crisis it has caused, the most recent effect of which is the destruction of more than a million jobs in our country. First of all, the COVID-19 has undoubtedly caused an exceptional crisis and has led to situations that limit the National Health System and, as a result - we have all observed - has reordered Spain's political and social priorities, as well as the perception of these priorities by citizens, so that now health security has become part of national security, and public health, which has required an exceptional effort from health professionals, expects political decisions to clearly strengthen the National Health System, in line with the opinion of the Commission for Reconstruction. Secondly, the confinement and the health crisis have highlighted the value and strategic nature of two resources which to a large extent remained hidden for the political objectives and for society as a whole: on the one hand, the territory, the rural environment and the work of agri-food producers, which curiously, now is not recognized, when the CAP they receive is lowered, and, on the other hand, the low density population and free spaces have been valued, so that, in general, the appreciation for residence in contact with the countryside and nature has increased in society. These two socio-territorial conditions are integrated in our DNA, in the DNA of Teruel Existe and in that of the entire emptied Spain. Thirdly, COVID has highlighted and, to be more precise, is demanding in this House the need for political agreement, consensus as a tool, consensus among parliamentary groups beyond ideological differences. Perhaps this reordering of political priorities can be made more visible by the content of the opinion of the Commission for Reconstruction partially adopted in this House, as well as by the interventions of the representatives in the working groups, which have left in the sessions a complex and rich range of analyses and proposals. Although its origin is not in the crisis of the COVID, but it comes from a long historical process, I think it is fair to highlight, insofar as it also represents a reordering of the social and political priorities of Spain, the motion presented by Teruel Existe, and which was adopted without votes against in this House on 25 June, by a pact of State towards a vertebrate Spain, by territorial balance, sustainability and the demographic challenge in emptied Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, as with health, I believe that citizens perceive depopulation as a major national problem, so that, based on the social and political consensus reached in the House, I would like us to agree on a number of points for the work that awaits us in the coming months. Firstly, in which depopulation is a question of State, and not only are demographic and territorial problems unique to or peculiar to the areas that suffer them; on the contrary, it is a question of State, because the depopulation of very large areas of the country impoverishes us all as a nation. Secondly, that the unpopulated areas of Spain are part of the solution to this new economic crisis. They are not a ballast, they are not a destabilization that requires repairs; on the contrary, in the unpopulated areas there are resources that, if activated intelligently, will contribute to the social and economic reconstruction that the country needs. And finally, as it is time to move from words to facts, we hope that the spirit, contents and details of the June 25 motion...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u69	Mr. Guitar, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u70	Yes, I'm done, President. ... as well as the numerous amendments relating to depopulation which have been included in the Commission's opinion are fully integrated into the plans to be submitted by Spain to the European Union for the new multiannual financial framework and for the Next Generation instrument and which, at last, territories such as the province of Teruel obtain the correction of their historical deficits and solution to their endemic problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u71	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u72	Thank you, Madam President. They will allow me a preview, and it is that, while this plenary was being held, throughout this morning a man has tried to kill his wife in El Vendrell, in Tarragona: he has set him on fire. This victim of violence is serious in the hospital. And I think I am speaking on behalf of all the Members of this House in wishing him a speedy recovery and sending all the support and encouragement of the world to her and her family and friends. It is important that we destabilize gender-based violence in this country once and for all, but also the discourse that denies gender-based violence, because it endangers the security, independence and freedom of women. [[Applauds]] Having said that and thanking the President, of course, ladies and gentlemen, before it was a reality, the union of Europe was a dream. It was the dream of those who dared to believe that peace and social justice were possible on a continent divided by walls of hatred and devastated by two wars; a dream that began to come true about the nightmare of the worst conflict of the twentieth century. The goal of our union, Jean Monnet said, is not just to unite states and markets, it is to unite people. And that, turning dreams into ideas, ideas into proposals and proposals into facts that change people's history and lives, has a name: it's called politics, and it can be the most beautiful task. The European Union is neither its Parliament nor its Commission nor the customs union nor the euro, however important all this is. Europe is, above all and above all, a commitment to peace, collective responsibility and social justice; it is to unite people, to create a community of values between different people. So they called it solidarity in fact, because that was what it was all about, to turn workers' rights into real rights across Europe. Let no one stay behind again, we told each other, and raised the welfare state, with the conviction that freedom without equality is the alibi of privilege and that equality without freedom is just another mask of despotism. Ladies and gentlemen, about the most difficult time of the twentieth century, Europeans made the greatest dream of freedom and social justice that humanity has ever known come true. And on the most difficult moment of this still short twenty-first century, our Union looks back at those values that made sense to it: collective responsibility, freedom, equality and social justice. As the President of the Government said, Europe has faced a historic challenge and has been able to respond with a historic agreement. Some speak of a new time, of a refoundation. I believe that our Union has once again believed in itself and in the values that gave it life. When this social Europe believes in itself, when this common Europe acts as a community, even the most Eurosceptic, those who until the previous day insulted and denounced it have no choice but to silence or applaud cynically. The President of the Government gave the details of the European Council and of the large recovery agreement, a fund of EUR 750 billion, of which EUR 390 000 will be for transfers to the Member States and EUR 360 000 will be for loans. Spain is the second country most benefited by the funds of the fund, with about 140 billion euros; a fund to overcome the crisis and to finance the modernization of our economy, so that this recovery is green, digital, modern and social, so that nobody stays behind. By the way, gentlemen of the PP, you have said, on several occasions this week, that this was a rescue and that we will have to leave our government program. Well, I see you also have your dreams, even if they are nightmares for many Spaniards. I assure you that we are going to spend the right thing, because, moreover, it is what Europe is asking of us; but, I also make it clear, spending the right thing, for us, it does not mean the least, but it means making sure that we are fair in the distribution. Spending the right thing is to make sure that the investment has an impact on cohesion and social justice, where no one is left behind. Spending the right thing isn't cutting. Ladies and gentlemen, this time Europe understands this and demands it; it is not about cuts, but rather about investing and investing well. What Europe has said is that, first, we are concerned about people; and there is no incompatibility between what Europe is asking for and our project for Spain; between what Europe is asking and the coalition government's project for our country. I would like to thank, from this rostrum, the President of the Government for the role, momentum and leadership he has shown to make this historic agreement for Spain and for Europe a reality. I thank him as a spokesman for the Socialist Group, I thank him as a Spanishman and I thank him as a convinced Europeanist. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the PP, nothing would happen if, instead of making noise and screaming, they stood up and applauded from time to time. In the Italian Parliament they did it - it was already remembered in this rostrum -; try to do it sometime; I assure you that people would understand that they were happy for something good for Spain. I don't think anyone else would criticize them for that. Well, yeah, no one but the far right, and that's where I'm afraid your problem is, isn't it, gentlemen of the PP? Look, they seem to have been very upset by the applause. It's just that there's applause and applause. You and your spokesmen, Mr Casado, seem to have been very upset that the ministers applauded the President - also today that we applaud the Socialist Members - after reaching an agreement that all the European newspapers described as historic. But we all remember how, in this very House, they applauded and jealoused each of the cuts that Mr Rajoy announced. There's applause and applause, Mr. Casado. [[Applauds]] Each one chooses what he celebrates and is portrayed before the Spanish. Each chooses his or her words and deeds, but in a politician it is always desirable that there be some coherence between what he or she says and what he or she does. He's slipped here again today, something that he's been repeating in the last few days, to see if he hangs, and he'll understand that I have to give him an answer, although we already know that you have very fine skin. He said that you supported the government in negotiating with Europe; and these days you have even pointed out the success of the negotiation yourself. Well, you didn't do very well, Mr. Married. Look, you only have two hands, two hands, and it's impossible that with one toss the stone, with another to hide the hand, and with another to put the medals; it can't be everything at the same time. However, there is something much more serious and much more worrying. You have been saying for days that what you do is not extremism and claiming your right to oppose for the benefit of Spain. But while the President of the Government was defending the interests of each of the Spanish in these negotiations, you were going to a summer course to proclaim to the four winds that the Government of Spain is not to be trusted. Trying to weaken the government in the face of the most important negotiation for our country in decades is not to oppose or help Spain. To send a report to Brussels questioning the rule of law in our country is not to oppose or help Spain. To ask its European partners to be tougher in the negotiation is not to oppose or help Spain. A European journalist - a well-known journalist, with a 30-year career in Brussels, not an Australian gentleman with an invented report, as he brought here a few weeks ago - has denounced that you have devoted yourselves to maneuvering in Brussels so that the President's efforts will fail, and we are still waiting for you to deny it. Today you have the opportunity to do so, to deny it. [[Applauds]] None of that is opposition, you know it and everyone knows it, inside and outside this House, and none of that helps Spain at all. You speak of moderation and support, but the subtitles of your facts say the opposite. It has been days of repeating, today too, that the success of the agreement is due to you, because Mrs Merkel has supported the agreement and is from the same party as you. Do you know the difference, Mr. Married? That Mrs Merkel has defended the interests of the whole of Europe, also of our country, while you were dedicated to those other things that I have told you. The difference is that Mrs Merkel - from whom I am very far politically - fights the far right while you give her your hand, puts them in institutions and joins them, even at the expense of Spain and Europe. [[Applauds]] By the way, that's how the right wing pays, Mr. Married. I do not know if you have fully realized, but they have just announced a motion of censure against you; against you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have also seen outbreaks of COVID in our country these days, and all speakers have referred to this. The president was very clear in his interview last Monday: 64.5% of the cases are concentrated in two areas, in the rest of the country the incidence is lower than the European average, as well as in the UK, and the autonomous communities are much better prepared than in March to deal with these outbreaks. Does this mean you don't have to worry? No, it means that we must be vigilant, very vigilant, and I am sure that we all know that this is a moment to convey trust, not insecurity. Mr. Married, you have said that the government is absent, that it is doing nothing, that it is looking elsewhere, and you know that that is not true. We are doing 270 000 RCPs a week; in recent months, EUR 16 billion has been transferred to the autonomous communities, a large part to improve public health; coordination with the new normality decree has been strengthened; we have agreed on an early response plan, a framework agreement for the provision of medical material in coordination with the autonomous communities, which will amount to EUR 2 billion in the next two years. The institutions work, the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain are in constant communication, but you are committed to conveying here an image that does not correspond to reality nor does justice to Spanish politics. You now ask for a single command, but just a few days ago you accused the state of alarm and that single command of despotism and its spokesmen spoke of totalitarianism and of social-communist dictatorship. It proposes a kind of legal engineering impossible and unnecessary to have a kind of state of alarm that recently said it was useless. Look, I don't think your bandages are because you don't have principles; I think you have a principle, only one, but very firm: attack the government. [[Applauds]] If pacts are reached, it attacks the Government; if they are not reached, it attacks the Government; if there is agreement in Europe, it attacks the Government; if there is no agreement in Europe, it attacks the Government; if there is a state of alarm, it attacks the Government; if there is no state of alarm, it attacks the Government. That is your only principle, to attack the government wherever and whatever, and, yes, it does fulfill it in rajatabla, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] The problem with the People's Party is that attacking the government is not a country program or a project to build Spain, and without a program or project, why should voters give them their confidence? That's your big problem, you want to get to the government anyway, but you don't have any projects for Spain or the Spanish. A few days ago in an interview his spokesman said some revealing things; he said, for example, that they will never reach a great state agreement with this government - and it is good that they say it clearly, so we all know what we are talking about - ; but, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo also said another interesting thing, that Spain is going into decay. [[rumors]] In this House we are the political leaders of the country, we are those of the present and surely they are much of those of tomorrow, the whole country looks at us and listens to us; this is a great country that is making a great effort and is moving forward. What the country needs from its politicians, from us, is security and trust, not defeatism. If you continue to do so, the only thing that will be in decline will be the state sense of your party, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] Stop betting against Spain, Mr. Casado, stop 'the worse, the better'; stop betting against Spain. I regret that you are not in this, and we will continue to wait for you, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not about who we are or the seats in which we sit, but about what we do among all; that is what defines us as politicians. And we know that complicated economic times are coming, but we also know that they will improve, and the more we add to this effort, the sooner they will improve. Spanish society has reacted with a union and a responsibility that we have never seen before. It's a reason for trust. The social partners have understood the gravity of the moment and have been able to add their strength. It's a reason for trust. The European Union has just reached a historic co-responsibility agreement among all. It's a reason for trust. There are those who say that we do not live in good times for values, that at this time we must be very pragmatic. I am very pragmatic and I believe that to be pragmatic today is to defend a policy of values and principles. I believe that indifference, each to his own and what about mine have never built hospitals or schools; nor will they help us against the pandemic. I believe that education, health, the right to a decent job, with a fair wage, cannot be the privilege of a few because that depends on the future of everyone. I think that none of that we can give up without ceasing to be who we are. Others, before us, were able to turn the most difficult moments into the beginning of a Europe and a Spain to be proud of. I told them at first that, turning values into proposals and proposals into facts that improve people's lives, it's called politics and it's something worth it. It is true that politics can be more than improving people's lives, but it can never be less. That is the responsibility, the great responsibility, the greatest of all the responsibilities that each of us has. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and from the members of the Government, Members of the European Parliament, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank most of the parliamentary groups who have spoken at this meeting for their constructive reflections, and I would also like to thank, on such a significant day as today, the sincere joy expressed by those spokesmen who are experiencing the triumph of Spanish and European society as a triumph of their own. I think that's how it should be understood. As has been shown today, in these months of negotiation - and I would also say that in the months we have been in the pandemic - the parliamentary groups in this House which have links with European parties represented in the European Parliament have shown two attitudes that I would like to underline and put on the table. On the one hand, there is the attitude of those who have acted proactively to help the Government of Spain, which in this case was nothing more than defending Spain's interests and, consequently, helping our country, promoting a climate of hope, a climate of calm, serenity and confidence also in the dialogue between the Government of Spain in the European Council. That climate - and I want to thank you - has made us stronger, has kept us strong in this negotiation process, as I said at the beginning of my speech, very complex. While others have had an attitude, today again expressed, dedicated to the contrary, to speak ill of Spain in Europe, sending, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group said before, deliating reports - it is the only way to qualify this report - on our democratic quality, a democratic quality that I claim. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only government across Europe that has had to undergo an extension and a debate every 15 days in order to maintain that extension. It has been necessary to approve such extensions by the parliamentary majority of that Congress. Therefore, to make delirious reports on the democratic quality of this country by the first opposition party, thus helping those who want to denigrate the Spanish institutions and democracy in Brussels, seems to me to be all but an exercise of loyalty with Spain. [[Applauds]] And that's what I mean. But not only that, not only by sending delirious reports about our democratic quality, but also by taking the most intransigent positions of the so-called frugal countries, defending the conditionality of aid that blocked democratic reforms voted by the Spanish, accusing the Spanish Government in all the forums to which it has been invited - I quote textually - as a Socialcommunist, of Bolivarian to discredit no longer the task of a legitimate and democratic government voted first by the Spanish and then, by their representatives in this House, but their very existence. That is to say, what they have been doing since 7 January, when the investiture debate took place, is to undermine the democratic legitimacy of this Government. I have waited for this reply because of prudence and serenity, and yesterday, when I was preparing some of the replies to a fairly repeated, repetitive and predictable debate as to what the opposition's arguments are, as I said, I have waited for this reply to ask these patriots about the cuts, which, in the days and hours leading up to the far-reaching European councils that we have had over the course of these months, and especially the one held between the 17th and 21st of July, once again raised their voice and demanded once again, as unlikely as it may seem, to all the Spaniards and to me, as President of the Government, those same prescriptions for a Spain struck by the worst pandemic of the century, the same wrong recipes, ladies and gentlemen, without thinking of the economic effects, on the social effects that their comments could have at a crucial time for the negotiation of this fund so important and so unprecedented and also without thinking of the repercussions that, consequently, could bring to their compatriots in a very urgent and urgent context. They decided on these groups which have shown a completely different attitude, as I said before, to attend only to the irrelevant of the small political interests: theirs, not those of the country, not those of this House, theirs, the small ones. And for them, I would like to record, as a general framework, a reflection on the two types of attitudes in the House when it comes to focusing on the debate we have had on the conclusions of this Council. The people, like us, who build with their successes, with their mistakes, even with their lapsus, ladies and gentlemen, and those who, like them, promote the opposite and live together, in their opinion, with eternal successes. First, a message for them, and it is to prepare for a long and fruitful legislature. [[Applauds]] They assume the role that Spanish society has assigned them and build with us, we reach out to them. I believe that 21st-century Spain is asking them to start by respecting the will expressed by the majority of citizens in the ballot boxes, which, by the way, was expressed in two general elections last year and in three complementary electoral processes: municipal, autonomous and European. A democracy, ladies and gentlemen, a full democracy, achieves consensus that seemed impossible and maintains negotiations with those who seem antagonistic. That I think it has to be the vision of Spain, it has always been, at least from my point of view, and I will not give up on it. In this legislature, which will be long and fruitful, as I said before, the citizens ask us to confluence everyone into a common project, to renounce each of us to those more particular aspects that hinder these consensuss. Therefore, let us not be afraid to speak or to hear or accept vetoes of any kind, especially the cross-vets which sometimes explain opposing votes that we have seen, for example, in the Reconstruction Commission. I think this has to be the attitude, at least it is the attitude of the Spanish Government and I think it is the attitude of the generality of the opposition parties. Mr. Married, I think you have a problem. [[Rumors]] No, I'm serious, I don't think you recognize the legitimacy of this government; you don't recognize it, you don't recognize it, you don't recognize it at all, and I remind you again of what I said to you on other occasions: you lost five electoral processes last year, so make opposition, lead the opposition and don't mime with the ultra-right. [[a Member of Parliament: Galicia!]] To sum it up a lot, Your Honor. We have been doing this for two years, without reaching agreements, but in these six months, frankly, I cannot understand the position of the People's Party. Throughout the negotiation your help - you know, I told you in the control session we had - has been nonexistent. Worse still, he intrigued, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has said, all that he could to weaken the position of the Spanish Government in an important negotiation like the one we had, and during the negotiations he did not stop giving arguments to the country's opponents. I had the impression that in this decisive negotiation for Spain the People's Party did not go with the Spanish team, they wanted Spain to lose this party. And I ask you: Did you think that by losing Spain this game you would win? You have already tried to take advantage of the pandemic to bring down the government along with the ultra-right, for example by opposing the state of alarm when it was essential. Even, Your Honor, do you dare from this rostrum to say that you did not approve of the state of alarm because there was an increasing number of deaths? Is that really an argument to oppose the state of alarm? I can't help but be surprised. The rare thing is that, when the agreement comes out, they say, in this case in Brussels, that it is their merit and they put on the medal, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group said earlier. Even, look back, to the state of alarm, to the proposals that you have reiterated from this rostrum and that I have listened to you over the course of these days, in this very confusing framework - I mean legally speaking - which you have put forward in your speech, I say to you that I remember Article 53 of the Spanish Constitution, which emphasizes, precisely, that it cannot be legislated by ordinary mechanisms against fundamental rights. The state of alarm is an effective instrument, a guarantee to deal with the situation we are living in in March. Your Honor, you criticize, but you also put the medal of this agreement and at two minutes - eye! - you say, as you have said here, that this agreement is appalling, that this agreement is a ransom. What are we left with? Is this agreement good or is it bad, Your Honor? I'd like you to clarify. And to continue, as I said before, you say that Spain has been rescued, that is, that in the logic of Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen, Spain has been rescued; Germany has been rescued; Holland has been rescued; France has been rescued; Italy has been rescued; Finland has been rescued; all the countries of the European Union have been rescued, because we are all going to receive the fund. I don't understand you or anyone else, Mr. Married; one thing, the opposite and the two things at the same time. The position of the People's Party is not that it is wrong, it is erratic and we could define its policy in one word, which is incomprehensible. I will tell you what the real position of the Spanish People's Party is. These are the facts, the ones I'm going to tell you now. [[Rumors]] First, when the Government of Spain spoke for the first time about the need for a Marshall plan...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u75	Quiet, please,
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u76	... more than four months ago, you disallowed the Spanish Government, criticized this measure. When we began negotiations, you weakened the position of the Government of Spain and called us pedigüos, which, by the way, is an expression already used by a person quite close to his presidency within the People's Party against another socialist president. When the negotiations continued, you were sending threatening reports to Brussels, as I said before, questioning democracy. And when the negotiation entered a decisive phase, you sent messages of intransigence to the so-called frugals to stall the agreement. That is how you subscribe, Mr. Married, to the agreement, the pacts with the government. But the problem isn't just there, it's much deeper. The People's Party that you preside over is not a party comparable to the moderate European right, it is not. [[Applauds]] It's not. To begin with - Mrs Lastra has told you before - the moderate right in Europe does not agree with the ultra-right, as you do. To continue, the moderate European right puts the interests of the country ahead of the interests of the party, and you once and for all sacrifice the interests of Spain for the sake of an alleged party interest. To continue, the moderate European right denies any kind of relationship with the dictatorships that have devastated Europe in the past, and you are opposed to redressing the victims of Francoism. [[Applauds]] And, finally, the European democratic right leaves the dead out of political confrontation and you always use them, repeatedly, when you are in opposition, whether with terrorism or with the pandemic. This is the reality of the political debate that we have. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs unity, it needs great consensus, and precisely when Spain needs unity and great consensus, it turns out that the worst of your fears, Mr Casado, has come true: Mr Abascal has just announced a motion of censure. VOX makes VOX. What's the PP gonna do? Are you going to do VOX or the People's Party? [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, I wish you luck with your partners, but that is how you subscribe to the agreements with the government. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u78	You speak of this country's public debt jump, but if the country's largest public debt jump, worth an additional EUR 410 billion, was given by the People's Party with the government of Mariano Rajoy a few years ago. You are talking about the public deficit, but if it is the public deficit that we have met with you at the head of the government for the past seven years. You are talking about populist measures, but is it that for you revaluing pensions according to the CPI is a populist measure? Is raising the interprofessional minimum wage a populist measure for you? [[Applauds]] You're talking about rescue, you've done it again today, so let's go with the Spanish-Casado-Spanish dictionary. [[Laughter]] You said, for example, that the agreement is a full-fledged rescue and that it is - and I quote textually - a third of the bear's skin that had been sold, but that it is good for Spain and that was the position presented by the People's Party. Therefore, it is a full-fledged rescue, a third of the bear's skin that had been sold, but which is good for Spain, because, moreover, it has been a position presented by the People's Party. The truth is, it's a pretty sophisticated argument. [[Laughter]] They have a curious way of drawing the world and considering the greatest coordinated European action to inject investment and capital in the face of the worst economic and social crisis in the last hundred years. No one is putting cloths on the economic and social crisis that the country is experiencing, on the contrary, we adopt a state of alarm, we confine millions of citizens, we have - of course - calamitous forecasts for Spain and for the whole of the European Union, which has had to follow the same path as our country in terms of confinement and mobility restriction. We do not put cloths on the economic and social situation resulting from the health emergency; on the contrary, we are realistic. We say to the Spaniards: we're waiting for months of hard work, but we're going to get out of this. And the closer this House is, the sooner and the stronger we get out of this crisis. [[Applauds]] For you, ladies and gentlemen, this is a rescue; instead, to a conditional loan to the Spanish bank in 2012, which according to the Banco de España cost the state 42,561 million euros and five visits from the troika, that is, black men to our country, you called it - and I quote, ladies and gentlemen - loans on very favorable terms. [[Laughter]] Do you remember, Mr. Married? You can smile. Two final points, Mr Casado, on the CAP and on labour reform. As far as the CAP is concerned, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Fisheries has been clear, I believe. The CAP 2021-2027 will have more than EUR 50 billion in Spain, with EUR 47.5 billion coming from the European Union plus the funds provided by the central and autonomous administrations. We therefore meet our goal of maintaining the allocation. At least, you could recognize this, but neither could you. There is, however, a change of priorities in the common agricultural policy, and this too I think it is important to underline because it is a debate that we have had. We need to make it more effective, also facilitate the agro-ecological transition. By maintaining the budget for the next seven years, together with the forecast for a reduction in the number of active workers, the average amount of aid received by each farmer and farmer will be increased. Here it has been said by some other intervener, I think I remember that it was Mr Quevedo, to whom I am grateful for that recognition. In fact, this has been happening since 2014; I have the data here. In the period 2014-2019, despite the fact that the CAP's direct payments budget remained constant, without annual growth, the actual payments, ladies and gentlemen, went from an average of EUR 6331 per beneficiary in 2014 to EUR 8482 per beneficiary in 2019, i.e. an annual growth of 6,8 %. This trend is therefore expected to continue at least until the end of the decade. I believe that this is good news for the entire agri-food sector in our country. The priority, ladies and gentlemen, was to change the CAP because it is one of the European objectives and because I also believe that it is one of the objectives shared by the agri-food sector in our country. It must be made more efficient, more equitable; ecological transformation must be facilitated. If we also want to reduce emissions, as we planned in 2030 and 2050, we need a greater commitment from the agri-food sector on this issue, we do, and this will be a different CAP in which emphasis will be placed on family farming; on professional farmers; on the profitability of farms; on agro-ecological transformation, as I said before; on digitisation; on innovation, especially the role of young people, which is one of the main problems. On many occasions we have heard the Minister for Agriculture comment on precisely the renewal and ownership of these farms. The CAP will also introduce a gender perspective, strengthening the role of women farmers and herders. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that from that point of view your criticism, as in many other issues, is unfair and disproportionate. On the other issue, I will say that the European recovery agreement is designed in 2020 to facilitate the transformations that our economy requires. It is therefore a question of taking steps to promote the productive use of funds. If one looks at the recommendations of structural transformations that Europe makes to Spain precisely, perhaps there are people who are even surprised, but one of the recommendations that it makes is precisely to create a vital minimum income; that is one of the reforms that as a transformation Europe has been asking us for for a long time: to rearrange all the minimum income policy that existed in the whole of the autonomous communities and to give it a more collective and, consequently, more effective sense in an environment as important as that of inequality, or at least that perception has many Spaniards. The other day, it was precisely a figure from the Centre for Sociological Research that drew much attention to me and that is that more than 60% of Spanish citizens consider Spain to be a very unequal country, which suffers many inequalities. These inequalities can materialize in the absence of opportunities, as we are seeing among young people; in the absence of opportunities, as we are seeing in several collectives, such as women, or also in many people excluded from any kind of aid as a result of precisely that lack of opportunities; I am thinking, for example, of the long-term unemployed of my generation, people aged 48 or over 50. Your Honor, I believe that the steps that the Spanish Government is taking in the field of dialogue and social consensus are fundamental. Yesterday the Vice-President of Economic Affairs, after the Council of Ministers, in the press room said that with the measures that we had put in place Spain, thanks to these measures, had prevented our country's gross domestic product during 2020 from falling by 25%. That's the effort we're making. To give you an idea, we at the peak of the crisis, of the pandemic, have been protecting more than 20% of the employed population in our country, and the rate of activation of the temporary employment regulation dossiers is going at a rate of 15 000 or 20 000 daily. These are measures that say a lot, first of all, about the commitment of entrepreneurs, because this is also a country with a very different productive structure to countries with a culture where, in fact, these kinds of solutions have been the alternative to pure and hard dismissal, such as Germany or Denmark. We have more productive sectors linked to the services sector, which therefore make it more difficult, and also an atomisation of our business sector, small and medium-sized enterprises; that is, hairdressers have made ERTEs during the time of confinement. That says a lot about these entrepreneurs, these women entrepreneurs, and it says a lot about the collective of workers, the unions, in short, who represent them. This is something that the Spanish Government is doing, that is, we are looking forward. We are also asking how to regulate telework; we are, in the end, looking ahead and addressing, from the legislative point of view, issues that have accelerated as a result of this pandemic, including the digital transition. Mr Abascal, it is clear to us that for you, in the end, it is the Chinese, the Communists, the immigrants, the women and I too, of course, indeed; I know, I know. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] The truth is, Mr. Abascal, you say again that I... this is an illegitimate government for the reasons you consider. You legitimately, because you are in your right and capacity, because the Spaniards have wanted you to do so, you have the capacity and parliamentary representation to present a motion of censure, which is what you announced here today, and I respect you and I recognize that legitimacy, Mr Abascal. Perhaps the only doubt I have is, if it is so urgent for you to change this government, why wait until September? What's going on, Mr. Abascal, going on vacation? [[Applauds]] [[All right, cheers. -]] In any case, Mr. Married, to see what you do, to see what you do, have not made it easy, have not made it easy; at the risk of mimicking yourself with the far right, to see if you are faggotized, Mr. Married, be careful. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u79	Quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u80	Mr Abascal, in any case, in your intervention there is always this contradiction in feelings. You love Spain and love it so much that in Europe you can always push against the interests of Spain. Don't you? That in your community alliances, you also come here and reproach the parliamentary alliances of this government, even that we can talk to each other, again questioning the legitimacy that we recognize you, Mr Abascal. Well, man, I would remind you that in Brussels, at last, you belong to this group where there is also such a Flemish National Union, one of the main partners that Mr Puigdemont has in Belgium. Finally, you are very consistent, Mr Abascal, both in Spain and in Brussels. [[Laughter]] However, I will give you two reasons in relation to the issue that you raised in your debate. You said that we treat the Spaniards as minors and I believe that it is the opposite, Mr Abascal, you treat the Spaniards as minors, I really believe it when I hear you, and the Spaniards are not minors, Mr Abascal, and I say it to you with all due respect. And to the people who have legitimately trusted you, you must say it clearly, you have lied to them, you have lied to them and I will give you two reasons. In a cohesive, united Europe, in a Europe with an agreement signed by different political families - there are the liberal family, the conservative family and the social democrat family, I hope that the Greens can also join this agreement in the European Parliament - the far right in Spain remains out as well as in Europe as a whole. Europe represents unity and you continuous confrontation, whatever happens, whatever is done. And I will remind you of something, Your Honor, forty-two years ago that Spain has been living in a democracy, but it was our entry into the European Union thirty-four years ago, which definitely vacated our country, society as a whole, against exclusive ideologies such as yours, and which allowed us all to embrace freedom. I would therefore like to share a few words with you and also with Mr Casado. It says so - I quote textually -: There is freedom of expression in our country. To all those who say they cannot express their opinions, I say: If you give your opinion, you must assume the fact that they can carry the opposite. Expressing an opinion has a price. And it continues - I quote textually -: But freedom of expression has its limits, those limits begin when hatred is spread, they begin when another person's freedom is violated. This House must oppose the extremist discourse, otherwise our society will cease to be the free society it is. I close quotes. Mr Abascal, Mr Casado, the words are not mine, the words were spoken by the German Chancellor Merkel in the German Parliament. [[Applauds]] And they also raised some complaints as when, for example, I have reported the fate of the far right in Europe and you have applauded, because directly. Do you know what Mrs Merkel's comment on those complaints was? It seems that some people have referred to each other. I have nothing more to say, Mr. Abascal, to your words. The second brief reason I would like to share with you, Mr.Abascal, is the following question: What is being patriotic? Really, what is patriotic, Mr. Abascal? You come here and give us a lesson in patriotism. You are the real Spanish, we are not Spanish or, at least, we are bad Spanish for you. But what is patriotic? Working for the interests of Spain or against the interests of Spain, Mr Abascal? To be patriotic is to oppose the achievements of the homeland? Your MEPs voted against the adoption of a European reconstruction fund, Your Honor, even going against the vote of your own parliamentary group. And the only thing they have been happy about is that some of the opinions of the Committee on Reconstruction in this House have not come forward. Contradictory patriotism yours. I'll tell you what, Mr. Abascal. I am sorry that you were not present at the State Ceremony on 16 July. [[Rumors]] I'm so sorry. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u81	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, Europe was born to overcome hatred and with this Europe agreement what it does is to become a much stronger project than it was before we entered this Council from 17 to 21 July. Mr Asens, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, I would like to say that the Spanish Government's commitment to dialogue is always the same. It's firm from the beginning. We know that there is a political conflict in Catalonia. This is not a religious conflict, it is not a social conflict; it is a political conflict and we have to resolve it politically. Therefore, Your Honor, we are clear on what the framework is, which is the existing legality; we know what the path is, which is dialogue, and we know what the goal is, which is reunion. I had the opportunity to meet with President Torra at the Generalitat de Catalunya, where I offered an agenda to meet the Catalan authorities. We have had a meeting of that bilateral commission between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Logically, during these months we have had to be focused on what we are focused on. Today we are supporting, shoulder to shoulder, hoisting the shoulder with the Generalitat de Catalunya in the management of the rebounds we are seeing in Lleida and in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. But I insist that, even with these circumstances, even at this juncture, the Spanish Government's commitment to dialogue is firm. I said in the investiture that this was going to be the legislature of dialogue and it is going to be the legislature of social, institutional and territorial dialogue with the Generalitat de Catalunya. Don't doubt it. [[Applauds]] Moreover, yesterday the spokesman for the Government, Mrs Montero, said so in the press room of the Council of Ministers. When the Generalitat wants to meet with the Government of Spain in the bilateral committee, we will do so; let them date and we will. But it seems that the problem is not us and not even the minority partner of that Government. It seems that, in this case, it is the majority partner of the Government of the Government of Catalonia that refuses to sit with the Government of Spain. When necessary, we will be ready and willing to sit down to begin to resolve a conflict that will take us time, which will take us years. Indeed, there are tensions, but the will is firm and the conviction is also determined by the Government of Spain. I think Mr Echenique has made an approach to the context of the international health emergency. The fact is that the data are very worrying and there they are: more than 16 million infected, more than 600 000 dead in the world, in Europe 1 600 000 infected and 182 000 dead. It's the official figures. Indeed, in Spain we are seeing the rebounds that are also being seen in other parts of Europe and which, moreover, are of the same typology. More than 30 % are rebounds associated with relaxed social behaviour and more than 20 % are contagions linked to the workplace, especially in some groups that suffer from a very serious precariousness, such as, for example, temporary workers. You know that the Minister of Health has met since the state of recurrent alarm and systematically with all health advisers. The Minister of Agriculture has also done so with the Agriculture Councillors to see how we can control the working conditions and health security of temporary workers in the field. We have had fourteen conferences of presidents and this Friday we will have another Conference of Presidents, in this case, in La Rioja, in San Millán de la Cogolla. The approach I am going to take to the autonomous presidents is that we meet every month, because we have a lot to talk about. We also have to meet at the end of August to prepare or, rather, complete the return to school of our children and daughters. I think that's also very important. In short, Your Honor, the Government of Spain is where it should be, logically respecting self-government in a composite state like the one we have, that the competences in health are in the hands of the autonomous communities and coordinating, collaborating and cooperating with them. Please note that perhaps we can have some element of criticism of some of the announcements made by some president or autonomous president, as we have known in the last few hours, but the Government of Spain is not going to get into it, because I believe that what the citizens want to see is the Government of Spain with autonomy in a challenge that affects the life and public health of our society. However, throughout this time, Your Honor, since we raised the state of alarm, the Government of Spain has adopted a decree of new normality. By the way, to those who criticize this decree of new normality I must remind them that it was agreed with the autonomous communities. It is not that we locked ourselves in a laboratory in La Moncloa and put black on white those things that occurred to us, but that it was the product of a process of elaboration, of co-decision, of co-governance with the autonomous communities. On 16 July we adopted an early response plan and on 22 July we adopted a framework agreement for the provision, in all the institutions of the State as a whole, of all the medical supplies we would need in the event of a second wave. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that there is evidence that the Government of Spain is where it should be. We are monitoring and maintaining serenity, because I believe it is also very important, ladies and gentlemen, that we move that message of serenity, of calm. There is much distress in Spanish society, which considers these rebounds to be disturbing, disturbing. Let us appeal to the collective responsibility, which affects us as public representatives, to the autonomous governments and to the Government of Spain, and to the individual responsibility that we all have to prevent the spread of the virus. Of course, the institutions' commitment is needed to fight the virus, but individual commitment is also needed. In that sense, all we can do is little to claim this individual task ahead of us. Mr Echenique, not for his part, would be missing more, but on the part of another parliamentary group - I think it was Mr Abascal - the work of Dr Simon has again been criticized. I will tell you that I am deeply proud that Spain has public servants like Dr. Simon at the head of this situation. [[Applauds]] I would like to say to Mr Rufián that it is not clear to me whether, in my place, Esquerra Republicana would have supported this recovery fund or not. It is true that he has spoken of the good news, but somehow he undervalues it. I would like to make some point, some comment on it. I will also tell you, Your Honor, that I am empathetic with that concern of various parliamentary groups and with the precautions they have shown about conditionality. This society has suffered over the past ten years many cuts, many adjustments and counter-reforms that have devalued rights. Obviously, we must be alert and alert to any action that has conditionality as one of its elements, but I would like to, by doing this exercise of empathy with you, also say that the approaches that the European Union is taking are to give a positive response to this crisis, especially at this time when we have such a sharp fall in gross domestic product and job destruction, with countercyclical policies and, consequently, with expansionary policies. You cannot say that this is clearly not an expansive policy, Your Honor. We are doing this at national level and we are doing this at European level when the Stability and Growth Pact has been suspended and is being proposed by the European institutions to mobilise EUR 750 billion in six years. That's an expansive policy. Of course, we now have to focus all our objectives on economic recovery and job creation, and when we reach the levels we had of growth before the pandemic we will have to see and address among all the necessary fiscal consolidation, because the effort we are making is enormous, both in the area of the public deficit and in the area of debt. By the way, here we are talking about the rise or fall in taxes of this Government, what are the moratoriums that the Government of Spain is putting on the productive fabric of this country, if it is not precisely to defend the survival of that fabric of these companies at this very complicated moment? I believe that the importance, Mr Rufián, of some of the measures that have been agreed is being underestimated. This is a pure and hard mutualisation of European public debt. It is, Your Honor, if it is for the first time when the European Commission is going to issue debt to finance projects linked to the digital transition or the ecological transition, or the training of human capital on our continent! By the way, this has no trick; I have not said that it has a trick; this has no trick, Your Honor, it does not, because this is going to be paid by the Spaniards, it will be paid by the Government of Spain from the year 2027. We are going to start returning, like all countries, precisely the debt and the principal to thirty years. This is a thirty-year operation; we are going to advance resources from the next thirty years to these first six years, precisely to deal, one, with this economic and social crisis resulting from the health crisis; and, two, to deal with the transformations that have accelerated as a result of the pandemic. Therefore, Your Honor, when it was raised, by the frugal countries, that we were being given money, I denied the largest, because this is a credit that we will also pay the Spaniards through our public coffers. What's going on? It goes without saying that, of course, it is not the Spanish Government that is in debt - which, by the way, is already doing so and very much, precisely, to support the temporary employment regulation dossiers, the lines that are keeping the pulse of our companies alive, which we carry more than EUR 100 billion in mobilised precisely in this task - but that the whole of the European Union is doing so through the Commission. And it is raised by some countries: Hey!, if this is the first time that the European Commission has done so, I would like to have a strengthening of governance through the European Council. Well, I don't see any problems either, ladies and gentlemen! It is a new instrument, it is a new fund, it has a new governance, and not only the Commission, but also the countries in the European Council want to have a voice. Well, it seems to me that at least we have to recognise that if there are other countries that, together with Spain, want to be in debt in order to give a common answer and defend the single market, among other issues, and the European project, for the next thirty years, they can have a space for debate at the European Council. We too can legitimately raise some debates in the European Council linked to the necessary fiscal harmonisation that is needed in Europe. Well, that's where I leave it. Finally, I do not believe that there is any difficulty in conceptualising the fund, a new governance, what role the Council can play, without demerging the institutional balance and the Commission's role, in issuing debt and in paying out disbursements, but, in any case, Your Honor, there is neither unanimity nor a veto on the disbursement of any country, inter alia, because, if you read the conclusions, there is talk of motivation; that those countries that have any doubt will have to motivate what are the elements they want to provoke as a debate of non-compliance with this national plan of reforms and investments, which is raised by the Member State. Your Honor, I insist, it is a new fund, a new instrument; it demands new governance, because it is not the Commission who is in debt - it is the Commission, but also the Member States, also Spain - and, therefore, giving that role to the European Council, it seems to me that it is also, even, reasonable. What would not be reasonable - and here I share it with you - is that the disbursement was unanimous, that unanimity was demanded or the door to the veto was opened. Furthermore, it should be remembered that, at the European Council, on the multiannual financial framework, the framework does require unanimity from the Member States, but the recovery fund did not require unanimity from the Member States. Thus, if unanimity is not required for the Recovery Fund, unanimity cannot be required for the disbursement of the Recovery Fund. It seems like a gallimacy, but I think you can understand what the debate underlying this issue is. And I also say to you - and I acknowledge that, ladies and gentlemen, we were not in favour of unanimity or the veto precisely because what was being called into question was confidence in the European Commission, and it was said: I do not trust the European Commission, and that is why I want the Council to be able to vote unanimously on the disbursement of these payments, and we said that this broke the institutional balance, which devalued the position of the European Commission, and the success has been precisely preserving the institution that represents us all, which is the European Commission. And what is there to have a political debate in the Council? There is a political debate in the Council, whoever they want. And I insist, I empathize with you on that precaution that we must all necessarily have about what we are talking about when we talk about conditionality. But, I also say one thing, Your Honor, if it were conditionality linked to the ecological transition, would you agree, yes or no? For example, there are countries - you know - that do not agree with the ecological transition. Do you agree that there is conditionality for this ecological transition, to reach 2030 or 2050 with a substantial reduction in CO2 emissions? I believe that when we talk about conditionality, when we talk about reforms, we have to ask what reforms our continent needs and what reforms our country needs, and clearly, Your Honor, what is being raised is not that it is reasonable, that it is necessary. We have to make that digital transition, that ecological transition, because - as I said at the beginning of my intervention - the effects that technological disruption has on the labour market or on education - as we have seen during these months - or the effects that the ecological transition has on our economy and our country, if we do not address them and we are already addressing them - and we are already doing so; precisely during this semester we have adopted in the Council of Ministers the preliminary draft climate change law, the circular economy strategy - we will have devastating consequences for which there is no vaccine. So when we talk about conditionality, Your Honor, I think we can also find a balance between what you say and what I logically defend. With regard to Citizens, Your Honor, I do not know whether we are already in campaign or not in Catalonia, but I have told you and I say this to you humbly, Mr. Rufián: I cannot agree with the right and you can agree with the Catalan independence right? [[Applauds]] Look at this - and I have already said this publicly, Your Honor - and I would like to agree with you, and I say this from the rostrum: I would like to agree with you, but let us go deeper into that reflection that you are doing, because then, what are we doing, what are we recognizing, the same political approach that other parliamentary forces are making to reproach the Government for being able to speak with your parliamentary strength even though you are defending a political project very different from ours, not from a social point of view, but from the point of view of coexistence, because you are defending independence and we are not? Is the legitimacy of all the seats here being discussed, then? I do not discuss it - I do not discuss it - and, therefore, if we follow that logic we will actually end up giving reason precisely to those who reproach the government that we can reach an agreement with you. And I tell you something else, Your Honor, and I tell Mr. Bal: Even if it seems like a lie, sometimes, Mr. Bal, Mr. Rufián is right; and sometimes, Mr. Rufián, even if it looks like a lie, Mr. Bal is right. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Borràs, I'll be very clear. For this government the interests of the whole country will always be the priority - always - the general interest is always above any party - even if it weighs it - but I believe that your problem is that they only speak for yours and only listen to each other. Your problem is that they only talk to you, they lose more than half of the conversation, and I think that's not healthy when you rule for all of Catalonia. The Government of Spain is not going to neglect the urgency of either Catalonia or Spain, Your Honor, while you instead of assimilation of political responsibility, what you do every time you have a chance, go up this rostrum or I hear, in this case, President Torra, is to blame the Government of Spain for everything that happens in Catalonia. However, allow us to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that, despite what you can think about the evil Madrid and the evil central government, you have much in common with Mrs Ayuso. In the management of Madrid and Catalan health there is only one difference, Your Honor, and it is the flag hanging from health centres, because everything else is the same: privatization, privatization and privatization. [[Applauds]] You, Mrs Borràs, came to say during the state of alarm that Catalonia, if it were independent, would better manage the pandemic. This was said by you and also by Mr Torra, of the party you represent. I'm not going into any reproach, Your Honor. I am strengthened in my initial convictions and it is that the Government of the Generalitat can count on the Government of Spain to face this common cause of saving lives and defending the public health of Catalonia and Spain. [[Applauds]] I would also like to give you four thoughts, Your Honor. The first - yesterday Mr Torra mentioned it and today you too in the rostrum -, in reference to statements about the Attorney General's Office of the State that I made, not on my best day. It is fair that you reproach me, Your Honor, but if you want to be completely fair, you would also have to remember what I said two days later, and it is precisely that I was wrong in that statement and claimed the autonomy of the Attorney General's Office, which I believe in and which is practical, Your Honor. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] The second issue is that this Government stands firm in its commitment to dialogue. There is no discussion at this point, Your Honor, there is no discussion. We are a government in which two political forces live together and dialogue daily; two political forces that it is true that we share the same political space, but that we have very different conceptions and perspectives. Let us discuss every day so that we can reach measures, agreements in the Council of Ministers which are for the benefit, I believe, of the social majority of this country. We talked to the social workers. We have held fourteen - it will be fifteen - conferences of presidents. The Minister of Health has met fifty times, at the Interterritorial Health Council, with each and every one of the Health Councillors. It maintains a daily dialogue with the Health Advisor and also with the Secretary General of Public Health, who, fortunately, you, after months, have managed to name in the pandemic. We maintain dialogue with everyone. We have reached an agreement at the European Council with people I very much disagree with. We have reached an agreement with Governments such as that of Hungary, with Governments such as that of Poland, with Governments such as that of the Netherlands. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that we have at least our will and capacity for dialogue, both internally - because we are a coalition government - and institutionally. Therefore, the question I ask you is whether you really believe that the problem with dialogue is a problem for the Spanish Government or whether it is a problem for those who say that it is not worth sitting with the Spanish Government because there is nothing to conclude with it. The third issue is that the outcome of the summit shows that understanding in the face of exclusive discourses is the path on which we must move forward to ensure the well-being of citizens. The fourth question is that the evaluation of the COVID-19 Fund, from the perspective of the Government of the Generalitat, is the most unfair of all those carried out by the Autonomous Communities. You have referred precisely to this non-reimbursable fund, and it is unfair - and let me at least transfer it to all of your ladies and gentlemen - for various reasons. It must be said that it is an extraordinary fund that this Government has made available to the Autonomous Communities and that it is a fund to combat the pandemic. It is therefore logical that most of the resources should go to those communities most affected until the time when this fund was approved. Localism and the demand for traditional criteria for sharing in regular funds are not worth it. And finally, Mrs Borràs, I advise you not to toast - like PP and VOX - to the bad news. The rebounds are not an attack on the Government, they are a threat to the health of the Spaniards, they live where they live. Today, even the defenders of the independence road map, are asking them to focus on what is important, Your Honor. These are days of tracking, tracking, effort and decisions, and the fundamental thing today, as yesterday and tomorrow, is that we save lives, that we all do it. That is what the Government of Spain is doing, supporting and helping the Generalitat of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have equated Spanish democracy with China and Turkey; you always forget Russia, I do not know very well why. In some ways, you validate some of the things that, unfortunately, the first opposition party is also raising in Brussels with that nonsense and mendacious reports they send. You have a method of designating an entity, which is the Spanish State - we are the Spanish State - which comes to be a sort of monster of several heads to which you always attribute the worst intentions regarding your parties and, by extension, the Catalan people. Let me remind you that the Spanish State is a democratic State, a social and democratic State governed by law, one of the twenty most contrasting democracies in the world, according to indicators that do not depend on the Government of the country, and that, as a democracy, it is based on the principle of the division of independent powers between themselves. The judiciary is independent of the executive branch and the legislative branch is independent of the executive branch. And, as I recall, I will tell you that you, like other Members of this House, such as the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, or even the President of Congress, as legitimate representatives of Catalan and Catalan citizens, are part of the Spanish State's legislative power. To complete the description, I would like to point out that the Generalitat de Catalunya is also part of the Spanish State, as they are part of each and every one of the autonomous communities. Moreover, its president is the highest representative of the Spanish State in Catalonia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to resolve the dispute, the existing political conflict - and this is where I want to get to - to overcome the problem of coexistence arising from that political conflict, I propose that we all start from a reality, and that is that you are criticizing - and you are in your right - a decision of an independent power, which is the judiciary, and you are doing so at the headquarters of another independent power of which you are a party, which is the legislative power, but you are mistaken in the recipient of your criticisms. The Government does not impose or remove sentences; those who do so, Your Honor, are the courts. And I add: fortunately. [[Applauds]] Mr Errejón, you say it's not the best deal. It is not the best of the agreements, but I think it is a good agreement for Europe and it is a good agreement for Spain. I also want to clear up doubts about the ecological transition. It is true that in the negotiation we have been forced into some cuts that, indeed, we regret, such as, for example, the Horizon Programme and the Just Transition Fund, but we must also remember that the two main pillars of this Recovery Fund, which are the resilience mechanism and the React, are two funds that will be closely linked in their genesis and in their implementation to the ecological transition. I think I remember, if the figure does not fail me, that 30% of these funds are going to be earmarked for this purpose. I think it's an unprecedented step, I've told Mr. Rufián before, and I'd like to remind him. We're pooling the debt. This is the way. I understand very well the difficulties that some countries had. We knew that we were opening a door and I believe that we must all make every effort, in the European Parliament and in the national parliaments, to ensure that it never closes again, that it is a path that requires further steps for the benefit of those united States of the European Union. We are faced with a huge opportunity - I agree with you - and we are therefore faced with a huge responsibility. We are going to have the autonomous communities and we are going to have the municipalities. In order for you to make an idea, if we want, for example - as we aspire from the Government - to rehabilitate housing, urban environments and tourist destinations, we need to have autonomous communities and also municipalities. The municipalities will have a key role to play in the implementation of these funds, as it should be. I therefore believe, Your Honor, that this effort to bring all the institutions together in a great national agreement can be very positive. Look at this - I said one of these days -, beyond the figures, beyond the policies, beyond the approximations - and, indeed, we could have achieved more transfers; I can assure you, Mr Errejón, that I fought for more transfers, but for the sake of the agreement, we remain at EUR 390 billion, which are quite large - above all it is the horizon of hope and motivation that this Recovery Fund, which this European response provokes in the whole of European society and, in particular, in a distressed society such as Spanish society. Not only are public resources going to be mobilised, but it is going to lead to private investment and I think it can mobilize many positive energies from businesses, young people, people who may not have found the opportunity, who have become vulnerable as a result of this pandemic. That is to say, we have a huge opportunity to make a leap forward in the modernization of our productive sector, of our country and, consequently, to ensure the prosperity of our country over the next twenty years. That challenge is worth it, and this Parliament must also count on that challenge and that challenge. Of course, Your Honor, the Spanish Government, through the budgets, through the plans, through the legislative initiatives that we will necessarily have to take in order to implement all this implementation of unprecedented investments, must rely on Parliament and appeal to the consensus of all. I understand what you are saying, but at this time and in this week when we have received a disconcerting and misadjusted news - as I said - from the United Kingdom regarding quarantine in our country, when precisely 64% of the rebounds are concentrated only in two territories and in the rest we are practically at epidemic levels very similar to those in the United Kingdom - I know that you have not said this, but your intervention also allows me to refer to the transformation that we have to do - I want to claim the role that the tourism sector is playing in our country. The hotel sector, the hotel sector are making an effort to adapt their facilities to the health and hygiene conditions we need. The Government of Spain has also put resources in its hands, precisely to address it. It is a sector that is suffering a great deal and I would like to convey to you the solidarity and commitment of the Government of Spain in defending its interests, which I believe is what all honourable Members also want. [[Applauds]] I would like to thank Mr Baldoví for his appreciation of the importance of the agreement and to reiterate to him that, indeed, the Spanish Government will have the autonomous communities and will also have the municipalities. I understand that you put on the table a series of infrastructure and investments. I believe that the important thing is that we agree on what are the transversal axes, which I believe we can share two progressive forces such as yours and that of this government. The digital transition, the ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality can be four concepts that justify all the sectoral policies that we put in place for this relaunch of the economy. In this regard, I thank you very much for your words and for the will expressed. To Mr Rego I would like to reiterate the same thing I have said to Mr Casado: this is not a rescue, Your Honor. If I hurry, by following the word game a little bit, I can accept that Europe is rescuing Europe, because, indeed, that is what we have done, rescuing all Europeans to ourselves, because we are seeing an unprecedented economic, social and health crisis in the last hundred years. Chancellor Merkel herself has said that this is the worst crisis since World War II, the biggest crisis that has ever, ever, been faced by the European Union. And this government does not put on warm cloths, it tells the Spaniards: we have tough months ahead but we are going to get out of it and, moreover, we are not only going to get back what we lost, but stronger, precisely to guarantee things that I believe we can share with you and me, as progressive forces that we represent. If we are making a public debt jump of 20 points in gross domestic product, if the European Commission is in debt for the first time to finance programmes linked to the ecological and digital transition, to put a case - that is, we are detracting future resources to future generations - what less than giving them a more sustainable and, consequently, more inclusive planet from an environmental and also social point of view. I think that's the challenge ahead. In relation to Alcoa, the Government of Spain is not at all disputing itself. Precisely, we're negotiating with that company. We also call for the collaboration of the Xunta de Galicia in order to be able to row together in a common goal, which is to defend this industry so important for Galicia and for the whole country. Consequently, we are working in that direction. This is a new paradigm, Your Honor. I understand and empathize with the issue of conditionality, I think we can all share that caution, but I also believe - as I told Mr Rufián - that you and I can agree that the ecological transition is fundamental and that there are countries that are not committed to that ecological transition, and that we do not need to put them on the table. Therefore, if all countries are in debt, if Spain is also in debt for all countries, what less than ensuring also a series of surveillance - let us say - of the fate or use of these funds. I don't think we're talking about much more. I also say that this is a mutualisation in every rule that is going to open up new very interesting debates, which are already taking place in the European Parliament, for example, that of own resources. Here it has been said - it seems to me that it was Mr Esteban or another spokesman - that we will have to talk about own resources, that we will have to talk about the digital rate. Here, in the Congress of Deputies, it is precisely this coalition government and the political forces that represent it in this House, a digital rate that we also want to be a community. We are talking about the tax on plastics, we are talking about the tax on coal at the border to protect our industry in that ecological transition it needs. These are debates that are mobilising to the left and which, moreover, are exhilarating, because how long have we been talking in Europe and Spain that we need to increase own resources at Community level? This is certainly a decisive step towards achieving this, because if the European Commission is in debt, let alone in the budgets that represent that European Commission within the financial framework there are more resources to be able to finance these policies and also the indebtedness that we are going to have over the next three years at Community level! It seems to me that they are steps of an enormous transcendence. I understand that you stress the precautions to some of the issues that have been raised in the debate, but it really seems to me that for those of us who are Europeanists - and you are as I am - this is a step of enormous importance, of enormous importance. I believe that we must all be pleased that we have achieved this, not by the Government of Spain, but by the whole of Europe, on the basis, Your Honor, that there were countries which, when they entered the European Council Chamber on 17 July, wanted zero transfers; it is not that they wanted 100 billion, 300 billion or 500 billion, that they wanted zero transfers. Mr Bal, you tell us about the European governments, about the three main parties. Finally, it is not false modesty, Your Honor, but you always forget who is the highest representative of the Social Democratic family in Europe, and it is the government of the Socialist Party, in this case in coalition with United Podemos. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you speak of cross vetoes. If we are going with you, then we are on the right path; if we are going with other political forces that you unjustly - unjustly, I repeat - label populists, then we are going the wrong way. You are in your right to raise that disjunctive like this; in my opinion, it is false. Let us look at the composition of different governments in Europe. Swedish government: governs the Socialist Party with the Green Party, supported by the liberals; there is no cross veto between the liberals and the greens. Who rules in Belgium, Your Honor? It governs a Liberal Party, a prime minister, supported by nationalist parties that precisely support at European level the independence cause that the nationalist parties in Catalonia defend. By the way, Mr. Bal, finally, let him see it, because you rule with the PP and those down there, with the ultra-right. Therefore, if you want to give us lessons, do a review of the autonomous pacts that you have made in Andalusia, Castile-La Mancha, Castile and León, Murcia and other places, as well as in Madrid. [[Applauds]] But, of course, if you agree with the far right is good and if we agree with other political forces is bad; you are serious and we are the least serious. Mr. Bal, anyway. On the labour market, I think I have also responded. There are the ERTE, there are the termination benefits for self-employed workers; I am glad that you no longer take it out in your interventions. You are in a party that represents or, at least from a discursive point of view, you say you represent the interests of the collectives of the self-employed, but you have not on any occasion referred to self-employed workers in the debate. It is because, indeed, this is the government that for the first time in history has met the peremptory needs of half of the self-employed in this country, which has created the provision of the cessation of activity for self-employed workers. [[applause]] I am grateful for your willingness, logically, that we understand each other, that we can reach agreements; I am grateful to you and to all the parliamentary groups that have supported the extensions of the state of alarm. I think you have made sense of your ten seats, which have shown that ten seats can be more useful than eighty-nine seats in the main opposition party. How? For by putting the country's interests before the narrow interests of a particular political party, which are legitimate but which are small in relation to the challenge ahead. I wish, Your Honor, we could keep going that way! With regard to tourism, what do you want me to say, Your Honor? There are the words, there are the facts: there are the ERTE, there are the ICO lines, there is, in short, all the action we are taking on the economic, social and also diplomatic level in order to be able to resolve the question to which you referred in relation to the United Kingdom. Mr Esteban is grateful that he recognizes and values the historical dimension of this agreement, which he has. You are talking about figures and economic forecasts and I think we can all agree that they are very difficult to do now, not only in Spain but throughout the world. All agencies are faced with an unprecedented situation and it is therefore very difficult to predict what the fall in gross domestic product is. In short, if you look at what revisions have been systematically made by the European Commission or the International Monetary Fund, you will see that they have been aggravated as a result of the pandemic. Moreover, everyone keeps - in quotes - their forecasts waiting to see how the autumn unfolds, that we hope it will be much better than this first semester in terms of the health emergency and its consequences for the economic and social emergency. In any case, the European Commission's forecast is a fall of 8% in gross domestic product, more than EUR 1 trillion long; I believe that, from the point of view of the Recovery Fund and the financial framework, it is more or less what we are covering, although, in fact, the Spanish Government would have wanted a greater commitment; there is no doubt about that. Indeed, I am pleased and I also thank you for recognizing that this is a new instrument that requires new governance at European and also state level; we are going to need new governance. This is not by population criteria; it has to be by programmes, by projects, by objectives we share, I believe all the autonomous governments linked to these transitions. And, ultimately, the efforts and tasks ahead of the Autonomous Communities will be enormous, along with the Government of Spain, but I am referring to the role that you have claimed for the Autonomous Communities, which I recognize, in the management and definition of the plan. There are also the structural funds that are being managed and will continue to be managed by the autonomous communities, in particular some of them, and therefore the management effort that we all have to make will require a great deal of cooperation, a great deal of coordination and a great deal of cooperation. In that regard, I hope that the Conference of Presidents that we are going to have next Friday will be the starting point to start talking about those co-governance mechanisms that we need to put in place, and I would like to see him transferred to the lehendakari Urkullu who would be a good presence at that Conference of Presidents. With regard to the other issues and the commitments, Your Honor, at the last monitoring session we had the opportunity to talk about this. I believe that we have strengthened the bilateral mechanisms of understanding between the Basque Country and the Government of Spain. This has happened, for example, with the Joint Commission on Transfers from the Basque Country, also with bilateral commissions on other matters or also with the conferences of Presidents. We have given access as soon as possible to the first three tranches of the EUR 16 billion non-reimbursable fund for all the Autonomous Communities. As I told you last week, the fourth tranche, that is, the one that refers precisely to the decline in tax revenues related to COVID, will be the subject of analysis and coverage via Euskadi's own deficit, because, although you did not support it, the Royal Decree authorizes you to incorporate the remaining treasury of the Basque Autonomous Community of 2019 to avoid any treasury tension in 2020. Once again, I insist that this Government abides by the agreement, that it will continue to be so, and I honestly believe, Your Honor, that together we can do many things for the benefit of Euskadi and Spain over the coming years. Mr Iñárritu, you have also referred to some parliamentary groups, to applause and so on. I would not speak of triumphalism or self-congratulation, but of recognition of a historic milestone that has taken place in Europe and also of creating atmospheric and environmental conditions in the Spanish public debate, at least in this House, which are much more serene and much quieter, which lessen polarization so that we can reach meeting points. I insist, this triumph is not the triumph of the Government of Spain, it is the triumph of Europe and Spain and, consequently, I am taking part in all the representatives of this House and of the Spanish citizens of this collective success. Therefore, the attitude underlying this kind of behaviour that we have had in the Socialist Parliamentary Group - I also take the leave to do so on behalf of the Group of the United Nations Podemos -, I believe that if it reflects something that is precisely that, a will to meet, to create a dynamic and different atmosphere of public debate that we need in our country and that I believe would be well received by Spanish citizens for the sake of consensus. You speak of centralism. Honestly, I don't know what centralism you mean. I believe that you and I can agree that, again, digital transition or ecological transition are elements that we must share in this national reform plan, such as gender equality and social and territorial cohesion. I don't know, I don't see centralism. On the contrary, I see recognition: one, the co-government and, two, the self-government of each and every one of the autonomous communities. It is precisely here that the Spanish Government is being criticized - the criticism is already noted - for having extended the state of alarm to at least six times and we are now being asked for legislative amendments to raise a state of alarm without decreeing the state of alarm. It is a bit what the People's Parliamentary Group is calling for with these changes that would, in fact, require the centralization of many of these powers. What we are saying is that with the current regulatory framework we can channel the response needed by outbreaks in the various autonomous communities. With all the difficulties that we are having, the early anticipation plan, the framework agreement, the real decree of new normality, the interterritorial conferences that we have at the level of health and the conferences of presidents demonstrate the will not only of the Government of Spain, but of all to recognize a composite State, to respect the competences that each has and, of course, not to question them; and we do not question them. What is more, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not question them, we have been the first Spanish Government to have placed in the hands of the autonomous communities, without conditions - I repeat, without conditions - EUR 16 billion, of which EUR 9 billion is precisely for health expenditure and EUR 2 billion for educational expenditure. He cannot therefore say that this Government is a centralist. Previous governments of the People's Party were saying to the autonomous communities: you have to do what you have to do is get in debt through the FLA and, therefore, loans were given. We are doing what we ask Europe to do, deeply lost transfers to the autonomous communities, recognizing their capacity to self-government to invest and spend them where they see fit. Proof of that is that we have put EUR 16 billion on the table for the autonomous communities on this issue, and I think it is also fair to recognise that. You have also talked about conditionality and whether the agreement is enough or not. I can share with you that this is not enough, it is 90% of the objectives set by the Spanish Government before entering the Council; but, in order to achieve this agreement, it is better to have 90% than nothing. It is 90% good for Spain and 100% good for Europe, and so I think it has been perceived by the general public. I would like to say to Mr Botran that I have responded to some of the questions related to yesterday's decision of the Supreme Court and also to the approach taken by the European Union. This is not a rescue at all. Do not follow the theoretical line proposed by the right, this is not a rescue; this has everything to do with a solidarity, common and mutual response of the whole of the Member States to a reality as dramatic as that which we are experiencing as a result of the health emergency. Mrs Oramas, I would like to thank you for the recognition of the role we have played. I believe that what we have achieved in the area of recognition of the outermost region is very important. We entered the European Council with the disturbing and unsettling element that the Canary Islands was not listed as an ultra-peripheral regime, but we have done so. We have even managed to increase contributions to the Canary Islands and, ultimately, both the Canary Islands, Your Honor, and the Balearic Islands have the full support of the Government of Spain in this difficult trance that we are going through with one of the main tourism emitters in our country, the United Kingdom. Of course, Your Honor, we are constantly working with them to see if we can get them to review this decision they have made. Furthermore, we believe that it is absolutely unadjusted because, if we look at the epidemiological indicators and the cumulative incidence of the epidemic in certain territories - in particular, in the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands - there are no scientific reasons or arguments to support closure or quarantine, in this case of British tourists travelling to their islands or to the Balearic Islands. To Mr Quevedo I would like to say that from El Hierro to La Graciosa the Canary Islands are part of the agenda of the Government of Spain; there is no doubt. I therefore believe that the agreement on the composition of the bilateral commission between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands, adopted on 23 June in the Council of Ministers, is good news. I repeat what I just transferred to Mrs. Oramas. I reaffirm the commitment of the Government of Spain to act faithfully to the treaties. Secondly, I would like to remind you that it is time to exercise our rights, but certainly also to fulfil our obligations as European citizens, among which is to give way to a national strategy of economic and social reforms in favour of the public. In this regard, the Canary Islands is essential and we want to have the Canary Government, to which its political formation is a part, and also the whole of the Canary Islands' parliamentary forces present in this House. Mr Sayas, we are aware that your assessment is always negative about what the Government is doing. Anyway, Mrs. Chivite's Navarra government I know you don't like it. You do not like this government either, and you make it clear in each of your interventions. But, beyond pointing out the problems, UPN should work to find solutions. Beyond the criticisms that you habitually make to the coalition government and beyond agitating the ghost of antinavarrism, it would be advisable to secure your shoulder in a cooperative way. I know you think we're the anti-Spain, anti-Navarra, unconstitutional, but I think we'd have to be a little more serious, Your Honor. As regards the budget for the first pillar of the CAP, the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, Feaga - more than anything to be recorded in the Journal of Meetings, because I know you know it - is EUR 291,091 million. And I doubt it, given the percentage of our country's spending on this fund, Spain would have 39 156 million euros for the period 20212027, of which 34 181 million euros will be allocated to direct aid to small farmers. The CAP as a whole, i.e. the sum of the EAFRD plus the EAFRD, will rise to EUR 47 682 million. And as I explained earlier in my first speech, this is the equivalent figure that Spain has arranged for in the previous financial framework 2014-2020, which I remind you has been EUR 47.5 billion. It is 47,682 million euros for the next few years and 47,500 million euros for the last few years. I believe that the figures are eloquent enough to see and recognise that negotiations in the CAP area have been a success. I see in your criticisms, Your Honor, more doubts than certainties, but the government is also for that, to resolve. Do not miss any more occasions because in the end your arguments, Your Honor, end up falling by your own weight, as I have shown you with the figures. In any case, I thank you very much for showing your position and willingness that Navarra can count on the design and implementation of the development of this national reform plan with this recovery fund. I also thank Mr. Mazón for the agreement. What more would I want to achieve agreements with the conservative bench in this House, Your Honor, which I strongly appeal to! Unfortunately, experience tells us otherwise. There are, for example, the debates and the results of the vote on the state of alarm. In any case, let us not lose hope, which in qualitative terms is also what is being opened up as a result of this unprecedented response that is giving Europe to the crisis. As I said before to Mr Sayas, we will certainly also have the autonomous communities. But I insist - and this seems very important to me because your party is government in Cantabria together with us - that these are not structural funds and therefore the criteria are not going to be the same and the distribution is not going to be the same and the governance is going to be the same; it is not at European level, it is not going to be at national level. Therefore, we must all work to find the best mechanism, one that is agile and that allows us to absorb all these resources and, also, to align all the transformation agendas that our country needs. In the case of the Autonomous Community of Cantabria, I have no doubt that we share to a large extent these transformation objectives, which I have stressed before. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, what do you want me to say to you?; everything is bad, everything is negative, this is a disaster... Look, before you referred to the COVID Fund, and Asturias has received more than EUR 6 million from the Extraordinary Social Fund, almost EUR 7 million from the Health Contingency Fund and EUR 3 million from the State Pact against Gender Violence. I believe, Sir, that the commitment of the Government of Spain in this and in many other matters also related to the ecological transition, a transition that has to be fair, is beyond doubt. With Mr Guitarte I agree that all the priorities have changed: health security; science - it has not referred to it, but I understand that it shares it - public health - there is, as I said before, the non-reimbursable fund of 16 billion euros and 9 billion euros linked to health - the CAP - I have already described the result of this negotiation - territorial cohesion, which will be part of this national reform plan; the commitment also from the executive point of view creating this vice-presidency not only for the ecological transition but also for the demographic challenge. I believe that we have the instruments, the channels, the political will and the representation of a large majority of parliamentary forces committed to this demographic challenge that affects not only Aragon, but each and every one of the autonomous communities. Here too, in the Community of Madrid, there is a demographic challenge, to quote another territory other than Aragon. I reiterate and appreciate the spirit of agreement and consensus that you have put forward in your words. I also recognize you and all the parliamentary forces for the work they have done in the Commission for Reconstruction. A Commission in which we have not reached a hundred percent agreement or consensus because it is true that there are multiple interests, there are cross vetoes, unjustifiable, because the important thing is what is voted on, not who votes. In any case, I believe that a very important effort has been made in this Commission for Reconstruction and the Government will take into account Parliament's recommendations on the national reform plan. I hope that you will be able to see reflected those approaches, those recommendations, when we present the road map of transformations for the coming years. Mrs Lastra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, logically, I am grateful for all the support and encouragement and, also, that matters which are urgent and important and which have the same significance as the issue that has raised this appearance, such as gender-based violence, logically, are present in the debate. And I share, as it cannot be otherwise, not only the pain, but also the conviction and determination of this Government to close a stage of violence that, unfortunately, is affecting half the population because of the mere fact of being a woman. [[Applauds]] In this regard, I believe that most of the parliamentary forces are in the same line. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Well, two and a half hours of surgery and a written replica. Now I understand why you were in Brussels as a guest of stone, because if you have to read with what we say here, imagine to endure those debates in which you could hardly say. Now, let me tell you something: was this your new normality, Mr Sánchez, that of the seven million Spaniards who cannot work, even if they want to; that of the 45 000 dead, who already recognizes with that count that the autonomous communities have made, as did the INE, as did Carlos III or Social Security, and that you, surprisingly - and no one understands - refuse to recognize? Is the new normality no longer providing the guarantee that health care providers will never again become infected? Fifty thousand did it in the last wave. Or, perhaps, is it not to have humility again and to continue with that bar policy of disqualification and opposition to the opposition, as we have heard today? What do you say about the rebounds? Have you brought here any program to do massive tests, to ensure an application of that fingerprint they announced in June? Do you have to go to rebuff again what we say? He passed with the masks, passed with the tests, passed with the closure of the schools. What's going to happen to school? Are you going to say, like Mr. Illa, that it was counterproductive, and then close them all over Spain? No experts now? There is no committee of experts, they refused to say their names; and now, Mr Simon's second in the CCAES says that there is a second wave to, the next day, after attacking tourism, say that there is no such wave. By the way, Mr Sánchez, since you read the replies, you read the Constitution, because article 53 states that the legal system will regulate by law the limitation of rights; by law, which is what we are asking you to do. Or is it that the Criminal Procedure Act does not regulate and does not limit the rights or even the Code of Circulation, the right to be able to drive with your car? Obviously, that is what Parliament is for, to make laws; not to bring us here to ask for a state of alarm whenever there is a problem, or to wash your hands, as you are doing, perhaps to be asked for by acclamation and under palliation. And what about the 7,000 initiatives put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group? Do you have anything to say or point out from our proposals, from those of autonomy? Do you have to go to the presidents' conferences to see what you can do? By the way, this is not a moderate centre-right party in Europe, Mr Sánchez, tell me a European socialist party that deals with independenceists, communists, populists and heirs of terrorist gangs. Tell me one! [[Applauds]] Then we'll see who's the moderate and who's not. By the way, it offends him to call Podemos populists. But if you did it in the electoral debate: I have nothing to do with populists. I'll never make a deal with Podemos, I couldn't sleep. Man, stop lying, stop cheating, they've shut you up even in Brussels. Are you talking about Germany? In Germany not only has the SPD never agreed with the Communist Party, it is that the Constitution prohibits extreme left communist parties, so that you also know, now that you have become a fan; it will make Mr. Simon's T-shirts and Mrs. Angela Merkel's T-shirts. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mrs Merkel, of whom you said that as she continued to be Chancellor in Germany, would then break the European Union. You have to understand one thing, Mr Sánchez: you have to choose between Europe or its partners, and you have to choose for the future of Spain or for the future, albeit ephemeral, of your Frankenstein Government. Even you know that there is no longer any alternative. Therefore, stop applauding The Comedy Club, which I have already told you is offensive because Spain is not for that and that, moreover, in Europe you will be charged. Learn from the good diplomats, not to celebrate successes in negotiations, but much less to celebrate as successes what others have negotiated because, if not, they will pass it on to them. He spoke of Europe and the frugal countries. Of course, the fault that three socialist governments have gone against their negotiation is the People's Party; the fault that the Finnish Prime Minister - as The Financial Times has revealed - broke the negotiation for her offensive attitudes during the second dinner is also the People's Party; the fault that Mr. Iglesias throws at Ireland's supposed tax havens is also the People's Party; and the fault that they throw at a liberal government such as Mr. Rutte's is also the People's Party. Look, it doesn't hang up, nor does it hang up to say that the report we have sent to Europe is inadmissible. Look, we've sent a report that we subscribe to because 45 000 people have died in this country and it's unrecognized. You and your partners sent a report on Ebola for the death of a dog. One dog, 45 000 people died; this is the difference in the reports that have been sent from Spain to the Community institutions. [[Applauds]] You say: They have not supported us. Oh, haven't we supported Solana or Almunia in their day or Solbes or Calviño? The tweets, what are they for, to lose track of? In other words, we tweet, our delegation supports it, in order to lose sight of it. What did you do with Cañete? To say that he knew about climate change the heat of Jerez. What did he do with Guindos? To say that she was not a woman - that's true - and to say that she had participated in the financial rescue. Yes, the financial bailout, you called it that and you have to remember that you were a councillor at the Madrid Caja Assembly when you approved three massive preferential issues. [[Applauds]] Therefore, do not come here to talk about financial rescue, Mr Sánchez; they left the financial system broken and you were in the Assembly of Caja Madrid. Do not give me lessons from the Pliocene, dear President of the Government. You also talk about the issues of the allies, but you don't talk about your party. Do you know what your Socialist Party allies say about you? That as a negotiator he left his partner Timmermans behind. A lot of dances with Iceta and he dropped it. Is that your credibility? But he also talks about the economy, about the financial rescue and, in addition, about the cuts. But how is it that you are ashamed to come to this House in which you voted in 2010 for the biggest cut in the history of democracy by freezing pensions, cutting salaries to civil servants and putting a hatchet on all public investments? [[Applauds]] Hey, I didn't do it, you did it. It also talks about public debt, the same as you as a Member authorised it to rise from 40% to 70% and left us a small gift in the drawers, under the carpets, another thirty hidden points that we had to come up with for the Payment Plan to suppliers of their debts and invoices. And the bottom line is that you start talking about the hemerotheque, he says he's chasing the hemerotheque. Hey, I met you as a meritorious Tertullian of Zapatero and you're in the hemeroteca - before you went up to the Falcon - what I already said I wanted to do with this country, the same as Zapatero. By the way, the hemerotheque also pursues Mr. Iglesias de La tureka, that program financed by Iran, that program financed by Venezuela that doesn't like much in Europe either. Explain to them who their vice president is. [[Rumors]] The problem with Spain, Mr Sánchez - you have forgotten to say it - is that 32% of Spaniards are financing all the salaries or benefits of others. There are 18 million Spaniards who receive a public benefit or salary compared to 13 million Spaniards who are contributing from the private sector, and this is unsustainable, this is not a rescue that can stand it, let alone if you throw petrol into the fire of the collapse of tourism, let alone if you give good for the negotiation of the CAP with 5 billion euros less, and let alone if you continue to throw at the national industry, especially that of the motor and the electro-intensive.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u85	Mr. Married, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u86	Yes, Madam President. Thank you very much. Europe has already put the strain on him and cannot pretend that we are his crane. If you want us to really talk about reconstruction funds from an independent, professional point of view, name a high commissioner, as other countries have done; a high commissioner to avoid peronism, clientelism, those green and digital plans that you are already beginning to outline. Name it, let's settle it in Parliament. I give you an idea: there are former governors of the Banco de España and former governors of the Banco de Pagos de Basel who, perhaps, as France and Italy have done, can help you. Finally, Mr Sánchez, you say that the legislature is going to be fruitful. The question is for whom will it be fruitful for those who attack the king? Is it going to be fruitful for those who want Catalonia's independence? For those who celebrate the rapprochement of 53 stories to Basque prisons? Will it be fruitful for the seven million unemployed? Or for the families of the 45 000 deceased victims of COVID? What is clear is that it will not be so for moderate, sensible, quiet and humble Spain, which does not applaud its incompetent government, but rather applauds courageous doctors. You do not deserve applause for your poor management and neither do you deserve our support with that insulting tone. So, Mr. Sanchez, no. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u87	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u88	Mr. Sanchez, I'm surprised every time you come up to this rostrum. He came up here today and said that yesterday, when he was preparing the replies, he confessed that you were preparing the answers before listening to the Members of this House. [[Applauds]] Maybe that's why he comes up here and the only thing he says about VOX is far right, far right, far right, far right. You have no idea what the ultra-right is, but what is surprising is that you do not seem aware at this time that you are ruling with the ultra-left, which is sitting on the Council of Ministers. And you dare to talk about Podemos as if it were a progressive force. Well, look, communism has never brought progress. Or do you think so? Or do you deny that you are sitting on the Council of Ministers with the ultra-left and with communist ministers? It would be good if he told us something about it. With regard to the proposal that VOX has announced today, Mr Rufián has come out, Mrs Lastra, even some commentators of the People's Party, has come out to say that we were presenting a motion of censure against Mr Casado. And I want to say that nothing further than reality; moreover, we show from this rostrum our affection and our respect for Mr Casado We present a motion of censure against you, Mr Rufián, against what you represent, against the Socialcommunist Government; we present it against separatism, against the political blackmail that you have instituted in Spanish political life for a long time, and against the criminals who act in politics, such as the President of the Generality. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] [[Applauds]] Some say it's a miscalculation, but we're not in the political contest to be the first; we're in the contest to save Spain. This is not a numerical issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, why are we announcing this motion of censure for September and not presenting it right now? It is precisely because neither I nor this group I represent have any personal interest and, much less spurious, neither in leading it nor in leading it, and because from now on my office, my telephone, this parliamentary group and the party I represent are at the disposal of all Members of this House to initiate a dialogue throughout this summer and to be able to articulate this absolute majority. That's exactly why. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And we are addressing all Members of this House who understand, like us, that the worst forecasts have been met and that this autumn will only bring more ruin, more misery and more disease, which is the only thing that has brought us this incapable and irresponsible government. Some are very calm, but I assure you that in the autumn many Members will be personally questioned by citizens on the street to support this motion of censure. On time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] For us, ladies and gentlemen, a motion of censure is not a political tactic or a strategy; it is a demonstration that there is opposition, it is a demonstration that there is an alternative and it is a demonstration that there is hope for the Spaniards, that there is an alternative that has the hand stretched out to the rest of the Members; an alternative like that which Spain needs, without personalism of any kind, without partisan selfishness and for the sole purpose of returning the voice to the Spanish people and that it can vote in elections knowing who lied to it in the previous ones. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is better to lose a thousand times than to be passive spectators of ruin. I have heard the spokesmen of the puemite and communist salad talking about incitement to hatred. Mr Echenique has come out, always with what he is a scientist, I do not know if he wants us to kneel before him, but very scientific should not be when he has dared to deny aggression to a fellow Member and to say that he did not believe it. He got stoned and said, "Compañera, I don't believe you. Not even that. [[Applauds]] And Mr. Asens has come up to victimize himself; now it seems that some are scandalized by some caceroladas when it has been the importers of the slaves in Spain, whom they called a democratic syrup. You are the experts in political thugs, you are the experts in political threats, in political violence and in the defense of murderers, criminals, drug addicts and drug traffickers, literally. [[Applauds]] That's what you're experts in. Not a comment on systematic political violence against VOX in all acts, not a comment on the communist bench or the socialist bench on violence against VOX in all acts of the Basque electoral campaign, one after the other, instigated by you and tolerated by your governments, which have allowed us not to celebrate our political acts freely. You practice that maximum Leninist: Against bodies, violence; against souls, lies. You are liars and violent men, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Mr Sánchez has confessed what Europe wants in return for the rescue; not Europe, not European societies, not the globalists in Brussels: mass immigration, more policies of gender confrontation and an ecological transition that translates into the destruction of our industry. More employment, more prosperity, is that the progression you preach? This rescue that you have achieved the only thing that will bring us will be more ruinous, Your Honor. You have brought ruin to millions of Spaniards, with the complicity of socialist and communist unions and sometimes even with the silence of the employer, but this autumn there will also be a union in Spain that will represent the interests of Spanish workers. [[Applauds]] There will be a trade union alternative. By the way, Mr Sánchez, and I conclude, you already have your place in history books, something your narcissism will appreciate: the greatest destruction of employment in the history of Spain. That is also why we will table this motion of censure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u89	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u90	Thank you very much. I will try to be brief because given the hours that are, if anyone already bites, hungry can get to bite much more. Two comments. The Republican Left Group today celebrates two good news: the first is the motion of censure that it has raised, which has enunciated the extreme right; a motion of censure against me, they say - I don't know exactly why -. They say it's after summer so people can make calls to them. I recommend that you make a group of WhatsApp called Motion of Censorship and surely in a couple of hours you will know who supports you and who does not. However, I would like to welcome the fact that they present a motion of censure and that they use democratic mechanisms, because with you before the motions of censure were made with Tejero, so we are glad that they use democratic mechanisms once and for all. [[Protests.- Mr. Sánchez del Real utters words that are not perceived.-Applause]] We also celebrate... we also celebrate... [[Protests continue.-Applause]] [[Protests continue.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u91	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u92	We also welcome the cessation of blame on 8 March, because so far what we knew here for you is that the beginning of the global pandemic was because of feminist demonstrations in Spain on 8 March. They are now beginning to blame China; they will have to prove it, but we are also glad that they stop criminalizing the feminist movement. Mr President, you ask us what we would have done Republican Left, because our position was not clear to you. We haven't been there, we've just expressed doubts, and most of all what we sure would have tried is that there would have been less applause - and I like it, I prefer people to be applauded rather than insulted - and more explanations. You, Mr President, say that there is no conditionality or a brake or some kind of veto. The agreement thus contemplates it in one way or another. And I want to ask you something, because you are going to the nice, ecological transition, but I understand that you can try some cut or some brake, depending on the plan that Spain presents, by Germany, France, maybe Austria, maybe Denmark, maybe Holland, maybe Hungary, maybe Poland. In this European Union where the good - and I hope this country has such a right - is Merkel, perhaps we can expect them to try to cut it down in some way. That's how we say it. I think that you too should recognize it because you will have to face it, and let us hope that the left will face it together. You use the usual argument that we agreed with the Catalan right and that you would have free way to agree with the Right of Citizens. I am not suspicious of always being friendly with the contradictions that our pact implies with the Catalan right, but I always respond with the same every time you tell me this, which is practically in every debate: you agree or govern with Convergence the third institution of Catalonia, which is the Diputación de Barcelona; in fact, you have agreed it so that you do not have the Republican Left, so that you do not have the Republican Left. They're lentils. This is it. And we with the Catalan right have agreed in Catalonia a tax on nuclear, a tax on banking, a guaranteed minimum income and very recently a budget of the Generalitat with a space little suspect of having the photo of Pujol in the portfolio as is that of the commons. I wish there was such a right in this country. You talk about the reason, that maybe Mr. Bal is right sometimes and not me... do you know who's more right today than ever? Montse Bassa; our partner, my partner Montse Bassa. You know why? While you were clapping here first thing in the morning, I was sitting in the chair and Montse the first thing he said to me was, 'The lawyer just called my sister Dolors to get the backpack ready because she goes into jail.' [[Rumors]] No one is more right than her here today. And what we ask you to do is simply not to shut up, not to shut up in front of this, both of you, because it is true that there is a judicial power, it is true that there is a deep state that has declared war to us and to you. Forgive me, but with a thread of tweets and an intervention by Mr Assens, whom we thank, of a minute and a half I can assure you that we do not stop it; we do not stop it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u93	Mr. Rufián, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u94	I'm done. Today the apostles of the 'worst, better' are celebrating it; the eye for an eye at the end means that we will all end up blind. Believe me, Mr. President, if we keep this up, if we keep this up, we're all going to hell. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u95	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u96	Mr President, three preliminary considerations. He told us that we talked for ourselves and that we didn't listen. I suppose you should say it for yourself, because who said the rebounds aren't bad news? Look where, you said it last Wednesday at a press conference. It's not bad news, it's bad news. But as he said on Wednesday and then on two days, on Friday, he already changed his mind, as in the case of the prosecution, then he does not remember and attributes it to me, that in no way can I consider a rebound to be something positive. Watch what he says and who says he says it, because he has also put statements in my mouth that I have never said, but the Journal of Sessions can confirm it. And as for the false claims you have made regarding the privatizations of health in Catalonia, for five years the Salut Board has depended on what you have defined as a minority partner of the Government. In any case, even if you intend to divide us, we stand in solidarity with the decisions made by our Government, with Councillor Comín and now. So don't talk about false claims of privatization that haven't occurred. He has boasted of the consolidatedness of Spanish democracy and I will remind him of some statements: we must leave behind the judicialization of the conflict and resume the path of politics. With these words you referred, Mr Sánchez, to the Catalan political conflict just over six months ago. I don't know if it's expired or not. This was said in the investiture speech. And yesterday the prosecutor's office - this prosecutor's office that is now orphaned, because it said that it no longer depended on you because at two days it disowned but, look, organically depends on the government and the prosecutor's office was a minister of your government and has a PSOE notebook, so I understand that some kind of dependency must have - decided that the third degree, which is not a privilege but a recognized prison right, was not applicable to political prisoners. I do not know what conception they have of rights: they are not benefits, they are not concessions; I do not know what conception they have of prison, is it a punishment or is it a reintegration? Because we've also heard of re-educating. It's a permanent punishment. All this must be very Spanish, because very democratic I say no. I do not know if this is his way of leaving the judicialization behind, because these days it is a year of non-investiture and we were already quite skeptical about his speech and his intentions. We were almost the only ones, but after this time and with their last performances all the masks have already fallen. Unfortunately, we were right. He speaks of dialogue, speaks of the State; of this State where the powers so well differentiated from each other and with the prosecution at the front are like the plagues of Egypt. And now, in addition to the third grade, we have also known that he is withdrawing their work permit. I don't know, they seem to be in charge of nullifying any possibility of dialogue. But I'll tell you something else: dialogue tables are more than a photo, they should be more than a photo, and so far it's just that, a photo. Let's go back to Europe, without leaving the photographs. Photographs have been taken, you've been applauded, you seem to have been hit by the lottery, Mr Sánchez, but now concrete, because in this country the companies close, the self-employed do not bill and you could materialize a Marshall plan more effective than that of Europe fighting against lateness. By doing so, SMEs and self-employed people would be charging 122 million euros from large companies and the Mediterranean corridor - which is neither expected nor expected - should be time for it to be a reality. We are well aware of the European melody of balancing subsidies with loans and denouncing the misconceptions often perpetrated by the Spanish governments in office. That is why you will always find us ready to defend and preserve economic and social rights. Europe is not a perfect club, but it is less imperfect than the Spanish state. Spain leads the economic and democratic deficit in Europe, take advantage of this crisis to correct it, comply with what it says, with what it said in the investiture, comply with Europe. Spain is part of the European problem and the reconstruction plan can be part of the solution to this crisis in Spain, but only if it is not a Spanish-made plan. Because Europe is going to examine its plans, which will have to be approved by a qualified majority of the Council. Be more European, Mr Sánchez, and do not make a reconstruction plan without taking into account the groups and territories of this decentralized state of which you so much presume. Discuss, negotiate and do politics, that the vendetta of the prosecution - I have told you before - is their shame. In substance and in form, the suspension of prison rights raises the degradation of Spanish justice to a superlative degree. The Spanish judicial apparatus attacks us constantly and in a discretionary manner, and a government that considers itself progressive, what does it do? Shut up and, therefore, grant. Yesterday we returned to Lledoners - I finish, Madam President - and just before we returned to prison Joaquim Forn, Jordi Cuixart, Raül Romeva, Jordi Sànchez, Oriol Junqueras, Josep Rull and Jordi Turull made it very clear: no regrets or anything like it. Faced with another show of more cruelty on the part of the Spanish State, more determination, more strength to obtain the desire for freedom that we have been demanding for a long time. President Torra also formulated it with this force: It is not justice, it is revenge, and the only thing they achieve is that we are stronger and that our reasons are strengthened. They invite us to prepare ourselves better for...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u97	Mrs. Borràs, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u98	... stop being prisoners in an authoritarian state that does not accept the democratic will of the Catalans. I couldn't add anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u100	Thank you, President. The story is that a prosecutor has decided to resort to a progression to the third degree, he has made an enigmatic writing in which he has pointed out that criminals convicted of very serious crimes that violate the Spanish Constitution and try to break Spain do not even carry out a quarter of their sentence and there is no regret. Mrs Borràs has even just said this from this rostrum, referring to yesterday's statements from those who returned to prison, and she has made a nice argument about the deterrent character of criminal law because, in fact, the commission of a serious crime cannot be free. Faced with this, Mr Rufián - I have to read it because it is impossible to remember this - has just said that Spain smells like a cowardly toga rancia and a cowardly left, and has asked Mr Sánchez and the Government of Spain to be brave and not to shut up. I wonder what nationalism is asking for, what Bildu is asking for, what Laura Borràs is asking for, what Mr Rufián is asking for. I wonder if you are asking the Minister of Justice to instruct the prosecution not to resort to a troupe, an intolerable privilege, such as getting people out of jail who are in the circumstances I have described. I wonder if what they are asking is for the prosecutor to be brought to trial and expelled from the judicial process; for the judge to be punished or pardoned or pardoned to prisoners who have committed serious crimes, or perhaps they are even asking for something more violent. But, of course, what I am sure of is that it is very scary that independent Catalan ideal that they have wanted to imagine. I certainly wouldn't want to live there with these ideas. The President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, has made a speech defending the separation of powers which, in fact, is the first time I have heard him in the two legislatures that I have here. But, Mr Sánchez, do not just address Mrs Borràs, who is right to address her; also address Mr Asens, who has come to us to say that this normal functioning of justice and the independence of the judiciary for him is bad news and it is from the parliamentary group that supports his partner in government, it is from the parliamentary group that supports the government. Look, Mr Sánchez, Mr Rufián at least understands it well; that is, he has fully understood that there are two paths that are incompatible. Do not talk to me about cross-velocities or compare me - Mr Casado has already told me - your government with other European governments which, of course, do not agree with successors of terrorist gangs or nationalists who want the independence of a part of the national territory or anything like that. Mr Rufián says that we are going to put an end to the autonomous communities and we have said by hash and be, by active and passive, that the autonomous communities are a formula of success; we are against territorial identity privileges that try to break Spain because they create grievances in other parts of the territory. And you wonder what it's going to be from the minimum living income with Citizens. But we have voted in favour. Gabriel Rufián has just left; at last, I ask him to attend a bit to the debates because we have voted in favour, and I think I even remember that the People's Party also voted in favour of minimum living income, and we are also contributing important things in the handling of the bill. The same was true of the royal decree-law that prevented supplies from being cut off to people who could not afford them during the pandemic. And in the governments where we govern together with the People's Party for more than 20 million Spaniards we have not cut a euro in the fight against gender violence or in the treatment of dependency. We have finished with chiringuitos, with customer networks, which must be what some people in this House are upset about. Look, Mr Sánchez, you don't assume so much, I understand that everyone has his character and you have one character coming out, especially after so many hours here, when one is a little tired: that if the Socialist Party is the main element of the European Socialist Group and it is the one that has achieved this wonderful agreement, that if you have achieved the protection of the autonomous... Look, the extension of the protection of the self-employed, the tax moratoriums, the decoupling of ERTs are things that we have negotiated to support the extensions of the state of alarm, and that is precisely where you let me tell you which is the best of the two paths. We have negotiated, we have supported the extensions of the state of alarm, of the Royal Decree-Law 21/2020; we have achieved good things for the Spaniards, for the autonomous, for the families, for the workers, we have both achieved good things. What does Republican Left of Catalonia or Bildu ask of you or nationalist groups? They ask him for the complete repeal of the labour reform, which is nonsense; they ask him for a referendum on self-determination, which is illegal; they ask him for the independence of Catalonia, which is a part of the national territory, a part of Spain, or they ask him for the amnesty of prisoners convicted of serious crimes. What's the best way? It is clear that this is the way, the way of those who defend the rule of law and the division of powers and not the way of those who try to end it; the way of those who believe in the European project and not the one who always votes against the European project and wants to burden Spain; the way, in short, of those who defend equality and not identity privileges. You know the way, Mr. Sanchez. On that path, on the good one, on the rectum, on the short one, is where he will find Citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u102	Mr President, I thank you for your words saying that you shared our understanding of the agreements and how the efforts and the subjects and projects to which you have to address need to be made. But you have directly questioned me and asked me to tell Lehendakari Urkullu to attend the Conference of Autonomous Presidents he wants to do on Friday. Well, as if the problems were going to be solved there; even some spokesperson from the Community of La Rioja today comes to the media to say that there are going to be funds distributed, how they are going to be distributed, etc. We know, as we have agreed before, that things are going in other directions. The truth is that here we are ten parliamentary groups, plus the government, plus you, and in the time we have been talking, have we come to any conclusions? You've had us in the replica I don't know how long, but like an hour and a peak. Of course, I've already seen what his rounds of presidents were. The government decided before, then we did the round, we all went through the round, until then and delighted that you're all okay. The truth is that here there are ten plus one, eleven, and there are going to be nineteen plus one to talk, and the truth is that in the call and there are no drafts, because you have not sent any kind of draft, because on something you will have to work and discuss, there will have to be a previous job to really get something out, and you have not even sent the topics to deal with, in the call comes none of that. The only thing they've sent is protocol, that's right, protocol. And let me just say that in those circumstances you might think that you're looking more for the photo than being effective. Look, it's still a deliberative forum and I have to say that I disagree with the spokesman minister when she said the other day that the presence in that forum was mandatory, enforceable and necessary. Discretion. Look, what is by mandatory, enforceable and necessary law is the Joint Commission on Economic Concert, because it is decision-making by law. Without that joint commission, many of those decisions cannot be made. It is therefore mandatory by law to establish deficit and debt. It is required by the parties and more when there is a compromise like the one we have. It is necessary because Basque citizens have the right to be able to make forecasts and take action on their economic future. I come back to the beginning, Mr President: in Basque autonomy and in Navarra autonomy there is also a clearly foral root which also emanates from the Constitution, as you well know, and there is a bilateral relationship. It gives me the feeling that no attention is being paid to this bilateral relationship and, however, it is intended to subsume it in joint forums so that that relationship is being laminated, and that, for us, Mr President, is to be re-centralised, because if the foral factor and the bilateral factor disappear from the relationship, it is to be re-centralised. Let me therefore question the effectiveness and objectives of that meeting. I don't doubt that that weekly picture of those meetings in many people could generate the feeling that you're... No, when things were coordinated and when things were agreed it was not in the Conference of Presidents, it was through other kinds of talks with political parties, with governments as well, etc., but not there, because it is also materially impossible and more if there are no content to discuss, modify or decide on; there is not even an agenda. Allow me, therefore, to take the importance of this next Conference of Presidents out of my hands. When there is something more substantial and, above all, something more viable, then we will see, because, I insist, look at the time that we are here talking and we are only eleven and there will be twenty, without having advanced anything previously. But, yes, as long as the bilateral relationship is previously respected. Whatever the lehendakari Urkullu does will be decided by him. I give you my opinion here, but I think it won't differ much from what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u104	Thank you very much, President. Mr President of the Government, either I have misexplained myself or you have misunderstand me. When I spoke that I did not see the triumphalist tone well, I did not refer to the European Union's remedy for the crisis. What I'm saying is that the current pandemic situation and the socio-economic crisis that is causing it is not the right environment to celebrate anything. About the remedy, I say it's not bad. I didn't come here to criticize him, and I'm not going to criticize him. What I am saying is that it is partial, that it is insufficient and that it does not come out for free, but that it has conditions, that these conditions can lead to a setback in social rights and that, therefore, a social shield must be created and protected. As it was insufficient, it also encouraged them to be bold and take action. You mentioned before the past the recovery or salvation of the bank: 65 billion destined and unrecovered. It has had a cost of 42 billion, if I am not mistaken. See how much now compares it to the 72 billion that will come in transfers. Look what it would take to get that money back. Why not make an effort to recover and demand that the bank return that? And why not a big fortune tax or that COVID rate that has been mentioned on some occasions? Or why is the fight against tax evasion and evasion not strengthened and -how not! - against tax havens we already said that some real houses and some of the bracelet and the flag on the mask like so much? When it comes to cutting, it can be cut into large pharaonic infrastructures or it can also be cut - of course not! - in the Royal House and come to a budget that tends to zero, because it is already seen that they are more than self-sufficient. And do you think it's time to spend 21 billion euros on armor for the army? I have doubts. On another subject he mentioned, the division of powers, I believe that everyone in the university has studied the division of powers and Montesquieu. The theory is fine, but in practice this State, Spain, has a problem with the independence of justice; and it's not that I say it, it's that the Council of Europe says it and I said it the European Commission in successive reports year after year. What is a reality is that there is a party founded by seven Franco ministers, heirs of Fraguism and Francoism, who send messages saying they control the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court through the back door. There is a problem of judicial independence and, although it obviously does not affect all judges, it is obvious that there is a problem in the major courts and in the emergency courts of this country. There is also a problem of state sewers. Now, Mr Sánchez, you know that the investiture plenary was held on the eve of Reyes, on Christmas, for some reason. Was she in a hurry? No, no, Was there a series of pressures and movements in some sectors of the State so that this investiture would not go ahead? Obviously. False police reports I think there have always been; now, the difference and what is new is that there are police reports against the government party. That does surprise me. And those sewers of the state, which exist today, have always had as their goal independence and sovereignism and have used any weapon, within and outside the legal exception. What is surprising is that they are now also targeting your Government, although, frankly, with this motion of censure I think they are doing you a favor, because it is not going to come out. But take care of those State idus, because they're inside. He asked a representative of a Spanish nationalist chauvinist force what Bildu wanted with the Catalonia theme. Obviously, we want you to return to politics which should never have come out of politics. A political conflict must never emerge from a political problem and must remain in politics, not judicialization, which makes those sectors prefer to have political prisoners in a state of the European Union in the 21st century. And about centralism, what to say? I was asking for examples. I believe that the same state of alarm, with re-centralizing measures and militarisation, is a mere example. But if you don't think it's enough, it's that law to law there's an invasion, a competitive lamination. By the way, statutes such as that of Gernika or the Improvement of the Offshore of Navarre remain unfulfilled forty years later; of the Statute of Gernika, more than thirty untransferred powers; and of the Improvement of the Offshore, more than twenty-five. About bilaterality - another spokesman has said - must be from you to you. There should be no imposition and no obligation to accept draconian measures. To finish, I would like to tell you that you have to choose: cuts from above or cuts from below. If they're from above, I've already told you before you'll have us by your side. If they're down, go find the variable geometry, which I'm sure they support. Without further ado, I wish you and everyone good summer - as you can - and health, above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u105	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lastra Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u106	Thank you, Madam President. When the extreme right rises to this rostrum and tells the Members of this House, especially those on the left, that in the autumn Members will be personally questioned on the streets, we know how to interpret perfectly what they are saying. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, in this country there are no longer the requests, however much they throw their hosts against the deputy Tomás Guitarte during the investiture or against the Minister of Labour last week. That's over; you don't represent Spain or the Spanish. [[Applauds]] You should be ashamed to come up to this rostrum and threaten the Members of this House. Having said that, already appeared the mythological being, already appeared the moderation of Mr. Married, already came out here to say that he was a moderate man. Mr Casado, I mentioned in my previous speech an interview with Mrs Álvarez de Toledo last week in which he said, in addition to Spain's decline and those who do not intend to agree with the government, that it would be rare for the opposition leader to abandon moderation. I do not deny you, your parliamentary spokesman, Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] You, Mr. Married, always follow the same strategy, and you always get the same results. He came to the presidency of his party saying that he was going to recover a central project for the People's Party, but then he stood in front of a microphone and in ten minutes called the felon president, a traitor to legality, illegitimate, occupied, incapable, liar, irresponsible and disloyal. He compared it to a president who committed drug trafficking crimes, said he was committing a high treason crime and would do whatever it took, and we saw him, to stop this government, whatever it took to stop a democratic government. Result: historical batacazo in the general elections of April 2019. In your own party you were asked for moderation, and you said that, of course, you were going to turn the PP - and I quote - into 'the great square of reasonable Spain'. A few days later, in May, I was already saying that the government is complicit in coups, that the president humiliates Spain, and his collaborators dedicated themselves to saying that Spain is a dictatorship, that we live in totalitarianism, that this is an illegitimate government and I don't know how many more barbarities than we have used to. Result: defeat in the European elections, defeat in the autonomous elections and defeat in the municipal elections; three in one. [[Applauds]] They insisted again from their party on moderation, and again you assured them - and I quote - that you have never abandoned centrality. A few days later he returned to the Socialcommunist dictatorship, to the illegitimacy and the whole canteen of his political project. Result: November 10, new general elections and new defeat of Mr Casado; and there are already five. In your party you insisted - because commitment does not lack your party partners - on leaving extremism, and you tell them that the PP will bind all moderation and centrality in Spain, which this time it does. Shortly afterwards, in the investiture, one goes back to the rostrum to say that this is an illegitimate government, a fake president; he calls the president of the sociopathic, grotesque, indecent, lying and unworthy government. Finally, Mr Casado, in recent months we have faced the worst health crisis in our history. The entire society has joined together, the Government and much of the autonomous communities, also many autonomous communities and municipalities of its party collaborate against the pandemic. But you, in this very House, in your own way. On May 6, 2020, in less than fifteen minutes he makes his contribution to the debate - moderate and sensible, that is - calling the manipulative president, liar, Caesarist, embezzler, incompetent, incapable, inept, greedy, negligent, arbitrary, irresponsible, nefarious, opaque, fraudulent and a few more things. And that's always the case with you. It is launched into extremism, and when even in its own party they ask for moderation, it promises them that yes, it will behave like a responsible politician, who this time goes seriously, to immediately return to insult, chrispation, division and extremism. Look, elections in Galicia and in Euskadi a few days ago. After the failure of his extremist strategy; yes, after the failure of his extremist strategy, because, look, there is something we say in Asturias, that of 'here we are all majorians'. Let's see if anyone thinks that Mr. Casado won the election in Galicia! [[Applauds]] After the failure of your extremist strategy, your party leaders publicly ask you for moderation, and you commit - and I quote you again - to perfecting a winning and moderate alternative. Neither the other nor the moderate, because today you have called the President incompetent, ineffective, president of a disappeared, passive, populist government and I do not know how many more things; neither moderate nor winning, Mr Casado, because the voters have already told you again and again, even those of your own party, that that is not the way, that on the path of extremism they will not follow you. Look, your extremism and the division you sow do not do justice to the politics or politicians of this country, which in the vast majority of cases we have been able to demonstrate responsibility and unity. But his words here - and I have told you this several times - have a gap in the streets, and questioning the legitimacy of the government is not to oppose, it is to degrade our institutions and our democracy. Abandon, Mr Casado, that extremism in which you have settled - you have just said it again in the ballot box - which does not correspond to the majority feeling of the voters, nor those of your own party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lastra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, to thank the tone of the debate in most of the parliamentary groups and to make three reflections. One, proposing the suitability of creating multilateral spaces, without, of course, prejudice to the bilateral spaces that are needed between the Government of Spain and the rest of the autonomous communities. This Government before the elections and after the elections had set a very clear course, the aim of which was to minimize any conflict between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities. I also believe that the data attest to the number of appeals lodged by the Government of Spain before the Constitutional Court regarding the alleged invasion of jurisdiction. I want to tell you a personal experience I've had. I think that in these months of pandemic, since we convened the first videoconference of presidents on 15 March, one day after the state of alarm - we have held, as I said before, fourteen videoconferences, and this Friday we are going to hold a conference of physical presidents in La Rioja, because we had proposed to hold a conference of presidents at the end of the year, but, obviously, the pandemic has caused us to move forward with that commitment - we have had very hard, very hard, very difficult debates, ladies and gentlemen, in those videoconferences, videoconferences in which all institutional leaders, presidents and autonomous presidents transferred their anguish to me, the need to share also analysis, the knowledge of a disease, of a pandemic, of a virus that did not meet any kind of borders, of ideology, of political orientation or belief, and I believe that it was a space that - despite very hard debates that we have had and I am convinced that we are going to have in the future - it has now come out as a very necessary place, because I believe that dialogue is never so much more that we can be guided. In those meetings, in those videoconferencings - and I hope also in the conferences of presidents that we can make face-to-face - we probably do not reach agreements, or we have not reached agreements, such as those raised by some of your ladies and gentlemen, but we have guided our governments, our teams. For example, these videoconferences raised measures in the health field, raised the urgency of having to reach agreements in the protocols linked to the education system and with the return of our young people to school next September, and also by the Government in the defence of sectors that have been badly affected as a result of the confinement, and here is the example of the tourism sector. In short, I believe that despite the harshness of these debates, I believe that multilateral spaces are never too much, that the spaces for dialogue are never too much, although it may seem that they do not come to a good place. And that does not mean that this government does not want and does not defend bilaterality. We defend it with Euskadi, we defend it with each and every one of the autonomous communities. It is practiced in the first person by the minister of health, for example, every week talking to each and every one of the health counselors. And I practice it to the extent of the possibilities with all those presidents and autonomous presidents who are willing to speak and address the Presidency of the Government. And, without a doubt, I want the Journal of Sessions to include the demand for that bilateral dialogue that we must necessarily have with all the autonomous communities, in particular with those that have the foral character. Secondly, I wanted to make a reference, the secretary general of the Communist Party will allow me to make a reference to the contribution of the Communist Party. Here there has been some parliamentary group that has denigrated, stigmatized, let us say that it has unjustly dragged on the ground the contribution to democracy, prosperity and the Constitution of 78 of the Communist Party of Spain. [[applause.-Mr. Santiago Romero makes gestures of thanks, standing]] Of course, I feel closer to Spain than Alberti dreamed, the Passionary and many other communists, yes, many other communists who contributed to democracy in this country, to peace, to coexistence and to harmony. [[rumors]] And precisely in a week like this, when a secretary general of the Communist Party has passed away as Paco Frutos, I want my words to also claim the memory of a secretary general of the Communist Party of Spain. [[Applauds]] Finally, I wish all of you, ladies and gentlemen, a good summer, that we can rest. There are some parliamentary groups that are going to have to work, and a lot, this month of August, but, finally, they have decided so. [[laughs]] In any case, Mr Casado, I have not heard you say what you are going to do with the motion of censure that Mr Abascal is going to put forward. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u109	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u110	I insist, Mr Abascal, if it is so urgent, I do not understand why you wait until September; give up some of your well-deserved holidays for having that debate before these Courts. I wish you all a good holiday and, above all, as has been said before by some intervener, health for your loved ones and your loved ones. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in common, and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second item on the agenda, on the vote on the text of the opinion on Economic revival, in accordance with the resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies concerning the votes held at the plenary session on 22 July 2020 and pursuant to Rule 88.1 of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have asked to vote through the telematics procedure cannot vote from their seats. We therefore proceed to the second vote on the text of the opinion on economic recovery. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 207 plus 142 by telephone, 349; in favour, 134 plus 38 by telephone, 172; against, 73 plus 96 by telephone, 169; abstentions, 8 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-07-29-CD200729.u113	The text of the opinion was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was three and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
