ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the item on the agenda relating to the debate and handling of the motion of censure presented by Don Santiago Abascal Conde and another 51 deputies to the Government chaired by Don Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, who includes as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government Don Santiago Abascal Conde. [[Applauds]] Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao has the floor to table the motion of censure on behalf of the signatories. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to table the motion of censure and to explain the reasons that lead my parliamentary group, VOX, to make use of this instrument, as provided for in Article 113 of the Constitution and Articles 175 and 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Many value judgments have been made on the motion we are presenting today and its effects. On the one hand, there are the criticisms of those who refer to the use of a democratic tool as a marketing operation. Then there are those who claim to strengthen the communist social coalition and argue that Spain is not for censorship motions. Finally, there are those who claim that a motion only makes sense if the necessary votes are obtained to change the government. It is not my intention to devote much time to disassembling these arguments, since none of them stand outside the media spaces and the agreed chatter to certain political parties. [[Applauds]] This motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, is not a marketing operation, it is a national duty. It is a national duty that we assume in the face of the inaction of the rest of the political formations that, out of fear or prisoners of short-term electoralism, want to reach Moncloa at the mercy of inertia, which brings ruin and death, of the government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias. [[Applauds]] This motion, ladies and gentlemen, does not strengthen the Social Communist Government, first of all, because it does not require a motion for it; here are the citizens' offers for the budgets and passive attitude of the People's Party. Although, I already warn you - because it seems you do not want to notice -, Sánchez, Churches, the separatists and the ETA party - the Popular Front - share an agenda from which they will not depart, and secondly, because that agenda is forged around a common goal and need. The aim is to build alternative majorities to the constitutional order to put an end to the parliamentary monarchy and the rule of law. And the need: to pervert and malign the institutions to protect themselves from their criminal responsibilities and to be able to carry out their objective. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such reinforcement and there is an imperative need to use all the resources at our disposal, all the resources to alert against anti-democratic intentions, avoid these government policies of national hatred and the ruin of millions of Spaniards. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, does it make sense only for a motion of censure if the votes for a change of government are secured? Yes and no. Yes, if the only thing that moves us is the acquisition of power instead of what we want power for. And not, absolutely not, if the power is in the hands of people and political organizations that have co-opted the Executive, the Judiciary and the Legislative Power for a single purpose, that is nothing other than turning the institutions into transmitting and taxing organs of a totalitarian ideology. An ideology, by the way, that leads to the breakdown of coexistence, to the health catastrophe and to the social and economic ruin of this country. [[Applauds]] You may think that it is very well what we are presenting, but that we are going to lose, and I anticipate that we may lose, but we have given testimony to the reasons that make it necessary to call elections, ladies and gentlemen, and to censor an Executive that has led us to the greatest disaster in our recent history. [[rumors]] And, believe me, the more Members who tomorrow have to explain to the Spaniards their responsibility for the continuity of this disaster will lose. [[Applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]] Censorship motions serve to change Governments, but they also serve to place at the seat of national sovereignty the lack of confidence of deputies in the Government, as well as to express the unrest that plagues the nation and the possibility of an alternative. An alternative that offers the Spaniards a different way to resign. Ladies and gentlemen, no motion has had as many reasons as the present one. If we compare this with the previous ones, there is no doubt about it. In 1980, the Socialist Party filed a motion of censure against the government of Adolfo Suárez, and Spain then had a growth of 1.2, a debt of 16.5% and an unemployment of 10.6%. In 1987, the People's Party filed a motion of censure against the government of Felipe González, and Spain then had a growth of 5.5, a debt of 43.1 and an unemployment of 19.7%. In 2017, Podemos presented a motion of censure to the government of Mariano Rajoy, and Spain then had a growth of 2.9%, a debt of 98.6% and an unemployment of 16.6%. In 2018, the PSOE also submitted a motion of censure to the government of Mariano Rajoy, and Spain then had a 2.4% growth, a 97.6% debt and a 14.4% unemployment. Today, when VOX presents this motion to the government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias, Spain, ladies and gentlemen, it has a collapse of the gross domestic product close to 18%, a debt that already exceeds 110% and an unemployment that, according to best estimates, will far exceed 20% before the end of the year. The worst data, ladies and gentlemen, since the one longed for by the Left Civil War. And these are sufficient reasons; but it is that, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, they are not the only ones. Even the great makeup artists that this government has are not able to hide this social drama for the Spaniards, a drama that you are dealing with as if it were a screenplay of film B. Do not waste time, Mr. Iglesias, watching more series, because you have made Spain a series in which every season is worse than the previous one: more dead, more misery, more palace intrigues, more palace politicians and more undercover agents serving third countries. [[Applauds]] And as in any political or mafia series, all at the expense of the suffering of ordinary Spanish. The first season of this horror experienced by the Spaniards began with a big scam, with electoral fraud. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, his party was the most voted in the last elections, but he suffered a clear electoral setback, as did his coalition partners, Podemos, who could only bring poverty, ration books, lack of democracy and, above all, inequality. And it is not I who refers to your vice-president, nor any of those present in the parliamentary groups, no, that was said by the President of the Government in 2016, and it is perhaps, Mr Sánchez, the only time you have told the truth. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the executive we are censoring today is an illegitimate government. Mr Sánchez committed a gigantic fraud by lying to the Spaniards, and not just about Podemos. I'm going to read you some of his words: 'I'm telling you that with Bildu we're not going to compromise. If you want, I'll tell you five or twenty times during the interview. With Bildu, I repeat, we're not going to make a deal. Another: 'If I had accepted the demands of Pablo Iglesias, today I would be president of the government, but I would be a president who would not sleep, like 95% of Spaniards, including voters of Unidad Podemos'. And another: 'We are going to incorporate a crime into the Penal Code to avoid illegal referendums, such as that of Catalonia'. And another: 'I pledge to bring Puigdemont back to Spain and to be accountable for justice'. And why did you want to bring the coup player Puigdemont, to pardon him? [[Applauds]] Finally, all these phrases that I have read were spoken by Mr Sánchez before he needed the votes of communists and separatists to make him president of the government. Mr Sánchez, you did not care about the unity of Spain or the economic prosperity of the Spaniards or the hundreds of people killed by the terrorist band ETA in order to fill their ambition of power. You, Mr. Sánchez, are the symbol of lies and fraud. [[Applauds]] You came to the Presidency of the Government by lying to the Spaniards, and you have made this practice your way of governing. And once you got the government, what did you do? To form the most progressive executive of our democracy. It is certainly an undeniable fact that no Government has made as much progress as it has in its own. [[Laughter and applause]] They are so generous with other people's money that even former directorates-general raised them to ministries such as, for example, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, and thus up to eighteen ministries and four vice-presidents, with their corresponding advisers. It is the Government that has brought ruin and death, and also the most oversized and expensive Government of our democracy. But they are not only the most wasteful government; they are also the first to bring a marriage or couple to their Council of Ministers. To that extent, the Bolivarian inspiration that has been imitated in Nicaragua, where president and vice president are husband and wife, and that, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, that came to regenerate democracy, right? Was it a change of heart? To represent the people? But in the end, the only ones that have been well represented are all of you. [[Applauds]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, the governability of Spain is in the hands of those who want to destroy the nation. The separatist parties care about the future of the Spaniards, as a Republican Left MP said in this very rostrum. Others, like a member of the ETA party, are more explicit and claim - and I quote literally - that 'they operate in politics in front of each scenario, thinking about how to weaken and end the Constitution'. You, Mr Sánchez, are ruling with coups and serial killers, and that is so, Mr Sánchez, with political formations that should not fit into our political system, for the protection of democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is only effective when the unity of the nation is guaranteed, and these parties responsible for the coup d'état in Catalonia and heirs of terror have already shown that their only objective is to destroy it. [[applause]] A few weeks ago our spokesman, Ivan Espinosa de los Monteros, introduced a bill for its illegalization. There is no reason for the Spaniards to pay their taxes to those who want to break equality and divide them according to their place of birth, all of which resort to repression, when not to violence or civilian death of Catalans or Basques, who love and defend their homeland girl of criminals brought to politicians. [[Applauds]] Only VOX and once again VOX voted in favour; the rest of the House chose to maintain the current status quo: freedom of separatists to frighten, encourage confrontation and prevaricate. They are protected, and the people abandoned. The existence of separatist parties, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious democratic anomaly, unthinkable in many other European nations, but it is even more serious than the President of the Government, who must ensure the interests of all Spaniards, to do politics only to satisfy them, because it is up to them, Mr Sánchez, that you can sleep one more night in Moncloa. The negotiating table is another episode of the black history of the Socialist Party; it is a faithful reflection of the trajectory of a political formation that has participated in each and every dark event in our recent history, including, yes, the 1934 coup d'état. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I would tell you, gentlemen of the PSOE, that you have surrendered to the enemies of the nation to agree on the dismantling of the rule of law and the liquidation of the separation of powers, but, rather than a surrender, it seems that this is a convergence of interests around power. The reform of the crime of sedition to the letter of the imprisoned thugs is only one more show than you are willing to do. In less than a year it has passed from saying, in the words of Mr Ábalos, that 'it is not at all appropriate to speak of pardons' to express the Minister of Justice, in the parliamentary seat, addressing a deputy member of a party who has given a coup d'état, which - and I quote in text - 'the pardons, those which you are concerned about because they touch you, will begin to be dealt with next week'. Mr Campo, you are the senior notary of the Kingdom of Spain, and you are becoming the notary of the separatists. How many votes for the budgets does the pardon come out? A notary of the Kingdom must ensure the law and, under no circumstances, the liquidation of the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that before the alliance of a government with separatists do not vote in favour of this motion of censure? Where is your commitment to constitutional order, Mr. Edmundo Bal? You have been purged by Mr Sánchez as a previous step in negotiating with the separatists. What has led you to negotiate the budgets of a process that pursues constitutional theft? And, believe me, Mr. Edmundo Bal, I ask from my heart. Ladies and gentlemen, among all the lies of this government one of the most serious is its alliance with Bildu, with whom prominent members of this executive, including the president, promised never to compromise. [[rumors]] Today, the representatives of ETA in the institutions are not only partners of this government, but they receive the personal sympathy of Pedro Sánchez for the suicide of terrorist Igor González Sola, a terrorist who chose to take his life, an election that never, Mr Sánchez, had the victims of his criminal activity. Never. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, applause.- Several Members: Thank you!]] And I will not call you miserable, no, but actions speak for you, Mr Sánchez; it is miserable to try to rewrite the history of our country, Mr Sánchez, and turn terrorists into victims, it is miserable. And I tell you that we are not going to allow it; we are not going to allow it for the memory of the more than 800 compatriots who were killed for being Spanish and for the hundreds of crimes that are still unresolved. I am sorry to recall that there is no freedom in the Basque Country today. ETA has not been defeated. [[Rumors]] ETA has found the institutional protection of the PNV, the PSOE and the radical left present in this government, which also allows its puppies to pursue, threaten and attack all those who reject separatist dogmas. And it's a reality, ladies and gentlemen. The campaign of the autonomous elections has been a further demonstration of what hundreds of thousands of Basques suffer every day in their schools, in the bars, in the squares and of course in each and every one of the public institutions. [[Applauds]] A reality that you hide from the Spanish, while devoting thousands and thousands of public funds, for example, to promoting ideological campaigns against racism in the United States. It would be better for them to take a walk through the Basque villages and really see how the climate of hatred and violence towards many neighbours and the State Security Forces and Bodies is still very present. Ladies and gentlemen, Sanchez' veto of Felipe VI's visit to Catalonia confirms our worst forecasts: they are determined to put an end to the Crown. But we will not allow it, we will not tolerate that a handful of traitors who swore or promised loyalty to the king destroy our constitutional order and smite the impeccable image of our monarch. That alone, ladies and gentlemen, would be more than enough reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. The problem, as in so many other things, is that you live from the back to the Spanish. While all of you are hated by the citizens, King Philip VI is applauded and acknowledged for his work in every corner of our country. Or what is the same, for every contempt of the traitors Sánchez and Iglesias to our king, there will be thousands of Spaniards guarding our Crown and repeating, as I do here today: Long live Philip VI! Long live the king of Spain! [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have understood that a necessary phase of the plan for the destruction of the parliamentary monarchy is the elimination of opposition. Until now, they had committed themselves without great obstacles to their ideological expansion, as one of the parties that called themselves constitutionalists has been claudicating in front of the totalitarian roller on the street, in the media and in the institutions, but in their ideological delirium they thought that they could also pass over the real people, from the Spanish on foot. That's why all of you, your surveyors and your paid Tertullians, were shocked when the Spaniards turned VOX into the third political force in this country last November. They did not expect nearly four million Spaniards to trust a political formation willing not only to be a wall of containment against their totalitarian pretensions, but to decide to advance in the defense of ideas present on the street, but that you would pretend to be missing just because nobody defended them in this House. Well, here we are, ladies and gentlemen, even if you don't like it. [[Applauds]] And as they also know that we are the real threat to their plan to overthrow the institutions, they have put in place a machinery of violence against VOX, a machinery of violence against their representatives, their supporters. And this spiral of violence began when Iglesias, now vice president of the government, declared the anti-fascist alert after VOX's success in the Andalusian elections of 2018. Since then the puppies of the radical left, following the instructions of their leader, have been sent to every political act, information table or headquarters of our party, attacking the political freedom and the physical integrity of VOX members. But Mr. Iglesias did not comply with that call to violence, and a few weeks ago, as vice president, which we today censored, he crossed any imaginable moral barrier. In this very rostrum, Mr. Iglesias, after calling heroes of the homeland murderers and rapists from all over the world, he said: 'Our people, as in the 20th century, will take away the filth that you represent'. These words, Mr. Iglesias, show that you live in another time, and make you responsible for each of the threats, insults, stones and attacks that VOX affiliates or supporters have suffered on the street, suffer or will suffer, Mr. Iglesias, Spaniards who, like you or like me, Mr. Iglesias, have the right to think as they please. [[applause]] The next time you want to give democracy lessons, if you want to give them to your friends from the herriko taverns, because here we do not need any lessons from those who have the political practice of eliminating the dissident. [[Applauds]] As I was saying, in the past elections in the Basque Country and Galicia you tried to silence the voters of VOX, harassing their assistants in each of the political acts, something that I too have suffered in my own flesh in the city of Barcelona. They were not free elections and neither the autonomous governments nor the Minister of the Interior wanted to move a finger to guarantee the freedom and security of voters. So that's when you combined the two things you know best: lying and assaulting. Moreover, in a boast of contempt, Mr. Echenique said that the blood of a representative of national sovereignty wounded by a stone in Sestao was an assembly. [[Mr. Echenique Robba makes gestures to the speaker]] Mr. Echenique, you said it was an assembly. For you to understand, we're not like you. [[Applauds]] Have you already found, Mr. Iglesias, the police side of those alleged threats you received in Asturias? I'm really glad they were just one of your lies. However, I am saddened and concerned that a person with as few scruples as you are today is vice president of our nation. [[Applauds]] And that alone, ladies and gentlemen, would be more than sufficient reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. Every time you throw a panda of desalmados at a member of VOX, as happened, for example, to our colleague Rubén Pulido last week, you take a step further away from the reality of the Spaniards. When representatives walk down the street, stop at a gas station or enter a bar, they don't insult us. Creannos, they come to thank us for our work and, above all, to ask us not to step back in defending their ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, this is a government born of fraud and lies and with a plan to overthrow the institutions and the rule of law, and this plan has accelerated with the arrival of the Chinese virus. This Government is responsible for the worst management of the pandemic worldwide. VOX warned him from the beginning, but it's something that countries around the world have already credited. They advise against coming to Spain and set us as an example of what should not be done. Since the coronavirus came out of China until today, you have broken all possible records of health and economic disaster, and not only because of its ineptitude, but because you have never thought to protect the Spaniards. They only think of maintaining power and carrying forward their totalitarian agenda. And that alone, ladies and gentlemen, would be more than enough reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. His ideological obsession opened the doors in pairs to the Chinese virus, and it couldn't be otherwise. If we care about the problems of the Spaniards, how would they protect them? The pandemic entered Spain with the doors opened in pairs by a government obsessed with the implementation of its ideological agenda and completely unattended of the problems of the Spaniards. And when we already had the virus at home, the government set in motion its media machinery to work to convey only one idea: no one could predict the arrival of the Chinese virus in Spain. And they were lying again. You had received public warnings from international agencies, national institutions, such as the police, and political parties, such as ours, about the risks and imminent arrival of the Chinese virus. Even you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, asked the European Commission what steps it would take - I quote textually - towards the most likely introduction of COVID19 into the European Union. You, Mr. Sanchez, had the information, you hid it and then you said you couldn't know. Could it not be known on 31 January, when Fernando Simón, the spokesman behind whom you have hidden all your shames, said that in Spain there would be no more than one or two cases of coronavirus, despite the fact that the international public health emergency had already been declared, and many of us had already asked for controls at airports and you, as I said to you, had already asked the European Commission? Could it not be known on 13 February, when Minister Illa assured that there was no risk to public health and ignored the requests that parties like VOX made to them to increase, for example, border controls, although it has then been shown that already in February there were thousands of infections by infected people who entered Spain without any control? Nor was it possible to know on 25 February, when the Minister of Health also stated that it made no sense to wear masks, even though the Minister later acknowledged that he had been disadvantaging their use for weeks because they were unable to guarantee their supply, not because they were not necessary? By the way, Mr Illa, I hope that one day you will explain, not to us, but to a judge, why you hired unlicensed companies and intermediaries that had nothing to do with the health sector the purchase of masks worth more than 300 million euros, which were also unusable and at unorthodox prices when most needed to do to our health care providers, Mr Illa. [[Applauds]] It seems that it was also not possible to know when Mr Echenique, spokesman for a coalition government party, said - and I quote textually - that in the real world the coronavirus is absolutely controlled. Mr Echenique, you have not lived in the real world for a long time, and you have had to arrive at this pandemic to show the Spaniards that they have never been their concern. That is why, among other things, we want to get them out of the government. In short, one could know and, in fact, they knew. Recently, moreover, we saw Fernando Simón escape to Mallorca to participate in an adventure program, while calling the Spaniards who were traveling on the bridge of Hispanidad irresponsible. In that programme Mr Simon acknowledged that on 16 January - I repeat, on 16 January - you already began to work intensively for the threat of the pandemic, that is, that in January you all already knew it. In that interview he also said - and I quote textually -: Many people have not died because of what we have done. Well, I tell you, a lot of people have died because of what you haven't done. [[Applauds]] They didn't do anything, even though they had the information. Proof of this is that you did protect yourselves with purple gloves in the March 8 demonstration. [[Laughter]] Yeah, laugh, laugh. From now on, ladies and gentlemen, that day will remind us of your deception, your negligence and your crime. Proof of that is that you did protect yourselves. The image of those purple gloves in their hands represented perfectly this new left, which protects itself instead of protecting the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And that's what they've been working on for all these months, and only this reason would be enough to censor them. Because, Mr Sánchez, your criminal management at the beginning of the pandemic was not only to authorize the demonstration on 8 March. It is infamous, it is infamous that having the information on the arrival of the virus in Spain lied to all the Spaniards, avoided giving the voice of alarm and did not take the appropriate measures to guarantee the health of their compatriots just because he was interested, Mr Sánchez, and he was interested in promoting his ideological delusions. The Spaniards went that weekend to parties, theaters, political events, meetings with friends, yes, but because you were responsible for warning and protecting and once again thought of yourself. And the consequences: sixty thousand lives lost. In case it were little, he shouted - and so it is picked up in the Journal of Sessions -: Long live the 8-M!, which is the same as shouting: Long live the Chinese virus! How many people got infected that day? How many people were sentenced to death that day, ladies and gentlemen? We will always remember that its 8-M led to the death of thousands of Spaniards. We know that you do not intend to assume political responsibilities, those of your criminal and fraudulent management. However, the Spaniards do know that you do not know compassion and that during these months you have only been concerned to carry on others your own responsibility. He took responsibility for his health decisions over an imaginary committee of experts, invented a group of supposed scientists, who he listened to in order to be able to disagree with his mistakes, and resorted to them every time he presented himself to the Spaniards in his interventions of Aló president, always delayed, endless and empty of content. But we already know, Mr Sánchez, that Redondo has it and Sanchez assumes it. The false committee of experts is a faithful reflection of everything you do, such as your thesis, your book or your government. That alone, ladies and gentlemen, would be more than enough reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. But during this pandemic this Government has not only focused on protecting its own image, but has also taken advantage of it to advance its political agenda for the reversal of the rule of law, since more than a drama that has destroyed entire families, this Government has seen the Chinese virus as an opportunity; an opportunity to advance in the control of all State institutions. The Spaniards dying and you taking advantage of the pandemic to get a server of the Bolivarian tyrants into the National Intelligence Centre. [[Applauds]] In the midst of the collapse of the health care system and with the figures fired from the dead, you took advantage of the newly decreed state of alarm, not to guarantee safety in hospitals and residences or to shield the employment of the Spaniards, but to give access to the most sensitive information of the State to Churches, and with it, to its tyrant sponsors. A Spain paralyzed, plagued with fear and death and confined by you was the perfect setting to take the steps that you could not have taken in any other way. While our elders died alone and abandoned, without the necessary care and without being able to say goodbye to their families, because of the inaction of the Vice President Churches, the Government was working on the adoption of a law, the law of euthanasia, contrary to families and the necessary and urgent defense of life. [[Applauds]] For this reason, and for others that we have already detailed in this very rostrum, we have opposed the continuous extensions of the state of alarm. Because we found, once again, that their goal was not to protect the Spaniards but to silence any criticism, dissent or internal or external reproach, and the best way was to impose a confinement and generate social chaos. Indeed, you have worked hard to eliminate any criticism or dissent within and outside the institutions, and this alone would be more than sufficient reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. Mr Marlaska, we know that all of you are unable to assume any political responsibility for your actions, but you should not be sitting there. The reason that led to the cessation, for example, of a civilian guard colonel was not the loss of confidence, as you said. The real reason was the fear that this Government has of the truth and of bringing out all its responsibilities. You need to continue to undermine the separation of powers because you know that independent judicial institutions are the guarantee of the survival of the rule of law, which you seek to abolish. That is why the Public Prosecutor's Office, which Mr. Sánchez is eager to control, has given an order to reject any complaint concerning the criminal responsibility of his Government. We are going to defend truth and justice in an unfailing way to those who, like you, want to fulmine the division of powers. [[Applauds]] His Government was the only one of the major European countries that had refused to allow such investigations to take place, and only that fact already gave them away. That is why they are trying to finally liquidate the independence of the judiciary, reforming the General Council of the judiciary. His intention to reduce the majority needed to renew his vowels is one more step in his plan of infiltration into all public authorities. Mr Campo said that the aim is not for the Council to be hostage to the blockade, it is much better for it to be hostage to you, isn't it, Mr Campo? But we are clear that the real independence of the judiciary is the basis of the separation of powers and that, without that, there is no rule of law. Therefore, we must cast them out, to prevent their totalitarian drive from spreading throughout every corner of our institutions. This plan also, of course, includes the Legislature. That is why you closed the Congress of Deputies and reduced parliamentary activity to your fortnightly walks; fortnightly walks through this House to which you came to extend the hidden state of emergency, supported - of course - by your usual accomplices. That is why he ordered to monitor social networks and control the messages of anger and indignation with this government that the Spaniards - as they do not - shared in them. That's why you put a muzzle in the media, bought the front pages of all the major media, filled public television with far-left activists - that's right, they made themselves pass as experts - and bribed the main headlines with millions of public euros, with millions of public euros needed by the Spaniards. All this in return that the submissive and needy means of its financing will conceal the reality of the Chinese virus in Spain and whitewash its management. 'We went out louder', we could read on the covers. And it is true, you came out stronger and more protected, but the weaker and more helpless Spaniards. That alone, ladies and gentlemen, would be more than enough reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a drama comparable in scale to the health catastrophe, it is the very serious economic crisis that this government has caused. We are the country that has suffered the greatest fall in gross domestic product worldwide. We are the country in Europe where more jobs have been destroyed, with an unemployment rate of more than 30% if this motion does not go ahead. You presented a false dichotomy between protecting the economy or health, and you have not been able to save either one. To this day, thousands of Spaniards continue to call the unemployment offices to find out when the ERTE will be charged. Spanish people who have had their salaries drastically reduced for months, increasingly suffocated, if not drowned already, by a government that from the beginning refused our proposal; a proposal that was intended to protect the income of the Spaniards so that the families, whom you did not allow to work, could survive. What will all those Spaniards think when they heard the Minister of Labour say that all Spaniards had charged the ERTE? I tell you: surely you felt shame and anger because you were lying to them in the face. They were lying to their faces. Since the beginning of the economic crisis that this pandemic would bring, VOX has proposed to the Government that the State should pay all workers' and self-employed salaries for three months, so that they could bring a salary home while you did not allow them to work; a measure that has been applied by many countries around us. Of course, once again, their sectarianism blinded them and did not even intend to apply a VOX proposal, no matter how sensible. And now it's all the Spaniards who pay for the consequences. And what did you propose as a solution? Express approval of minimum living income. That was your solution, but not to the suffering and hardship of the Spaniards, but to the increasingly deteriorated image that you were giving all of you inside and outside our borders for your ineptitude and negligence. A minimum income that you have strived to advertise to candy and platter as the salvation of the Spaniards, to whom you yourself have placed in a situation of vulnerability. The reality is that not even more than half of the requests of those who asked for help have been reviewed, and that no one's life has been solved. They did, however, count on the vote in favour of all the groups present in this House, except ours. VOX is in favour of a temporary minimum income, yes, but not at the expense of the taxpayers, but of you and the elimination of the elephantic chiringuito that you have mounted on which you progress as the Spaniards become poorer. [[Applauds]] There is no money for the Spaniards, but it is for their international agenda. As soon as Mr Sánchez renegotiated the rescue of Europe, known as the European Reconstruction Fund, the Foreign Minister announced that 17 billion of that fund was already committed to third countries; 17 billion, ladies and gentlemen, will not see our health care providers; 17 billion will not see the small and medium-sized enterprises that have seen their businesses closed, nor the State Security Forces and Corpses, which face the massive influx of illegal immigrants unprotected; 17 billion will simply be handed over to governments from third countries. This Government has brought ruin, misery and poverty, as they have brought their socialist idols to where they have gone in the past. Their priority has been to protect themselves, so they have tried to divert the pressure of the Spanish people, who were increasingly choking them, imposing, for example, the state of alarm over Madrid, a tyranny measure that they have also justified with false and outdated data. This alone would be more than enough reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. However, they have not fooled the Spaniards with their trilero games. That is why you were thrown out on 12 October demanding the same thing we want to represent today: the need for all of you to leave the government as soon as possible. [[Applauds]] Seeing that all of you were cornered, you have worked hard for others to carry your faults, either by taking refuge in the competitive chaos of the autonomous communities or by paying with the surplus of the municipalities their budget gaps. Because, Mrs Montero, when you assured as a government spokesman and finance minister that economic recovery would be in the form of a grape, which country did you mean? Of course not Spain. It would probably refer to China, the country from which this pandemic spread and which is curiously the only State whose economy is already growing since August, 11.5 %. A regime, the Chinese, that closed its internal borders to prevent the spread of the virus, but that kept all flights abroad operational, favoring the expansion of the pandemic to third countries. We have all seen the images in the city of Wuhan, where they already enjoy nightclubs and water parks to overflow; that is, without any protection or safety distance. Those who have allowed for negligence or intent to expand the coronavirus around the world now benefit economically from the urgent needs of health supplies and essential products that the Chinese virus itself has created. It is fair that with these benefits they repair the damage caused to other nations by a virus that came out of their borders and that they have only wanted to stop within them. Santiago Abascal has already said it in this rostrum and many leaders of other nations are already demanding it: China must pay. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there are more than urgent reasons to defuse the government of Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias de la Moncloa, and this pandemic has shown this. The Chinese virus has accelerated the materialization of the ideological imposition plans that have been forged since its formation, exposed its ineptitude to manage crisis situations and revealed the true face of its members, who will always blame their defiance on the autonomous governments, the opposition or even the Spanish themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the nation today does not guarantee the health, economic or personal security of the Spaniards. While thousands of compatriots die from their criminal management of the Chinese virus and families also live ruined without being able to reach the end of the month, crime has taken over the streets and our neighborhoods. Our streets and neighborhoods that used to be safe are now scenes of theft, rape and aggression of all kinds. Once again, it is the ordinary Spaniards who bear with their taxes and at the cost of their security the invoice of multicultural societies that the European oligarchs have been trying to impose on our continent for decades. The results of these ideological delusions of the elites are already evident in France, Belgium or the United Kingdom, where crime, inequality and loss of identity have been triggered to such an extent that there are areas where the State has disappeared as such and Islamic law prevails. There will be those who consider our appreciation exaggerated, but I would invite them to take a walk through cities such as Malmö, Birmingham or the neighborhoods of Molenbeek and Saint Denis to know the reality of a problem that is already evident in many areas of Andalusia, Catalonia, Murcia and Madrid because illegal immigration - and I repeat, illegal - is a deferred condemnation for present and future generations, as well as for the economic stability and social peace of our country. The left has been living from behind the problems of the Spaniards for years, parapeted behind the walls of their large mansions and protected by both public and private security, and ignoring the problems arising from illegal immigration and open border policies. When VOX, for example, denounced the violence and crime of the MENA, all political parties - from the radical left of Podemos to the People's Party - rejected our proposals and ensured that they were children or children. That an illegal immigrant frightens our mothers and these are afraid, for example, to leave the house after sunset? Children's stuff for the government. That an illegal immigrant assaults our son in our neighborhood park? Children's stuff for the government. That an illegal immigrant robs our wives when they return home from work? [[Rumors]] Children's stuff for the government. That the installation, for example, ladies and gentlemen, of a MENA centre triggers the number of crimes 500 % in just nine months? Children's stuff for the government. That the neighbors in front of so many children's things, ladies and gentlemen, get sick of crime, demand the closure of such facilities, the end of public aid and the deportation of these criminals? Structural and systemic racism. [[Applauds]] There is no social conflict in which they do not side with those who break the law and destroy coexistence. The institutional impetus of the Government, for example, to the occupation was a good proof of that. A few weeks ago Vice President Iglesias denied the problem of occupations and, in addition, defended the rights of these ultra-left activists. It defended the right to violate private property which, together with freedom, Mr. Iglesias, constitutes one of the fundamental pillars of our constitutional regime. Where you see only a new polling station, we see thousands of families, old people and young couples who contemplate how with the use you make of the Administration the fruit of the savings of a lifetime is usurped by a mafia or by a shortcut of criminals, who, yes, would have to be kicked out of a kick as soon as the State Security Forces and Corpses come into the address in question. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] And that alone would be more than enough reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. And there is another matter to which neither Sanchez nor his related media pays too much attention. The executive's media satellites conceal the reality of the Gibraltar Field, one of the most abandoned areas of our country at the mercy of pirate Picardo and organized crime. Drug trafficking has taken over the area without anyone from this Government moving a finger to put an end to its expansion. Today the narcos operate with total impunity in the streets and in the Strait while police and civilian guards are forced to face them with precarious means, Mr Marlaska, unworthy of a country like ours. Mr Marlaska, you are one of the worst ministers in our country's history. The previous one is going to end up in the courts and you think he's going to follow the same path. He has abandoned the police and the Civil Guard also in the Mediterranean, in the Canary Islands, in Ceuta and Melilla, where the agents have no means. They have no means of curbing the migratory avalanche that plagues our coasts with the complicity of both the Government of the nation and the European oligarchs, always ready to finance through NGOs the mafias of human trafficking on the African coasts. [[Applauds]] Those responsible for the deaths of thousands of people in the Mediterranean are not the parties that denounce the businesses of the oligarchs, the so-called NGOs and the mafias; those responsible for images such as those of the child Aylan - that child who died on the beach - are of all those who support, finance and applaud an open border migration policy, a suicide policy, an irresponsible effect called. Gentlemen of the Government, your goodness ruins; your goodness destroys; your goodness kills, both on the beaches of the Mediterranean and on the streets of Europe, where jihadists use open borders to enter without control and murder Europeans. And that alone would be more than enough reason for any Member to support this motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, the alliance of this Government with the tyranny of Nicolás Maduro in Venezuela is an attack on freedom, human rights and the ties that keep us united with the countries of the iberosphere. It is a political and moral obligation to denounce each and every one of the devices of this government that break the image of Spain internationally and strengthen the power of the tyrants, a process that began José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero during his disastrous government and that this executive, composed of socialists and communists, has strengthened, supporting Maduro and receiving in Barajas his minister of economics, Delcy Rodríguez. The Minister of Development, Mr José Luis Ábalos, allowed Rodriguez to enter our country, despite having banned his access to the Schengen area, lying to the Spaniards and damaging the international image of our country. Mr. Ábalos gave up to six versions of his meeting with Rodriguez. The first version, on 23 January, when he refused to meet Rodriguez and assured that the objective of his stay in Barajas was to visit the Venezuelan Minister of Tourism, Mr Félix Valencia. The second, on January 24, when he explained that he greeted Rodriguez at Valencia's request. The third, that same day, when he admitted to having had a casual contact with the tyrant's treasurer. The fourth, on 25 January, when he held Mr. Grande-Marlaska responsible for the meeting with Rodriguez and maintained that the objective was to prevent him from getting off the plane. On the same day, Mr Sánchez assumed management, ensuring that he had done everything possible to avoid a diplomatic crisis. The fifth, on January 26, when he admitted that he had met with Rodriguez for more than twenty-five minutes to prevent him from treading Spanish soil. The sixth, on 17 February, when he denied that the suitcases Rodriguez was carrying were carrying gold ingots to Turkey, a usual modus operandi of the Chavista regime to expolate Venezuelans and which has been denounced by numerous international investigations. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that Mr Ábalos held up to two meetings with Rodriguez, violating European laws and allowing him to enter the VIP area of Barajas airport. Mr. Abaloms, lies, lies and more lies. They have made lies a political tool, a political tool, whether in relation to the crisis of the Chinese virus, illegal immigration or its alliance with the drug-addicting mafias, and that alone is enough reason to censor them. Ladies and gentlemen, destabilization movements in the Iberoosphere nations are not causal, they respond to an articulated strategy, from the Sao Paulo Forum first and now from the Puebla Group. The Puebla Group is nothing more than a political cartel that brings together the main representatives of the Bolivarian and Socialcommunist Left and is headed, among others, by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, Lula da Silva and Rafael Correa and also has the support of convicted criminals, such as former Judge Baltasar Garzón or pederasta Evo Morales. A cartel, that of Puebla, in which Minister Irene Montero recently participated and in which her party, Podemos, has found economic and political coverage. [[Applauds]] Hence, the support of the Bolivarian fugitives Morales and Correa to Churches for their worrying judicial situation. A strategy, that of this cartel, calculated and measured to liquidate the division of powers, to energize the rule of law, to confront citizens, to reopen wounds from the past and to impose a unique vision of society and history. Some results, those of Puebla, known all over the world: more hunger, more misery, more division, more violence, less democracy and less individual rights. A process of destruction measured and calculated in detail by the most radical left. And that alone, ladies and gentlemen, would be enough reason to censor them. But there is more, because, while the government allows Argentine judges to come to judge our history under its ideological bias, it blocks Bolivia's requests to question Pablo Iglesias, Juan Carlos Monedero, Iñigo Errejón, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and Baltasar Garzón about the payments made to Podemos by Evo Morales. Mr Iglesias and Mrs Montero, the Spaniards will not allow them to convert Spain to Argentina; Pablo will not be Nestor and Irene will never be Cristina, no matter how much the great bankers, like Ana Patricia Botín, support them. By the way, Mrs Botín, yesterday a speculator vulture, according to Churches, and today a committed activist, according to Mrs Montero. It is also worrying that Dolores Delgado, former socialist minister and current public prosecutor, is a partner of Baltasar Garzón, the former judge convicted of prevarication and lawyer of each and every high leader of the iberosphere tyranny. These attempts to transform Spain into a banana republic would already be a reason to censure them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an illegitimate and criminal government, responsible for the death of sixty thousand Spaniards and the extreme poverty of millions of families. Neither a resignation nor an apology to the Spanish people, on the contrary, they are left with chafing and political thugs. [[Applauds]] They are bad for Spain and for the Spaniards, negligent and also with totalitarian temptations. Only in what they are implacable is their agenda for transforming the rule of law into an ideological State, into a totalitarian State, ultimately into a Mafia State. That's where you see all your efforts, it's the only thing you've all devoted time and effort to. Catalonia and the Basque Country are part of a larger agenda, they are part of a process initiated by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and which the People's Party did not revoke, but strengthened, perhaps driven by that strange dependence on the sectarian left that defines its moderation and centrism. They did nothing with an absolute majority that allowed them to reverse the demolition path initiated by Zapatero in connivance with ETA and separatism. [[Rumors]] Today, Catalans suffer from the harassment and violence of subversive separatism that divides citizens and prevents their coexistence, a social separatism of this government, as is the ETA party in the Basque Country. That is why the spokesman for Podemos in the region criticizes police operations and the destruction of ETA's bars because - I quote textually - they do not bring anything positive. Today, Members of the People's Party, you have the historic opportunity to unravel that path, to show that you are truly willing to face all the consequences of the process of dissolution of the nation that is now embodied in this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the government we are censoring today has no other occupation to face and sow hatred among all Spaniards. All its policies are aimed at this; even if more than sixty thousand people have died or millions of families are in poverty or on their way, the important thing is to ensure conflict. They have ascended to all the ideological and fashion currents that pursue the weakening of the common bonds, those common bonds that are the ones that strengthen understanding, coexistence. They have faced women with men with their crazy sex war and have blown away the presumption of innocence by making men guilty for their sex. [[Applauds]] They've faced women with women with their crazy feminism. They pursue any gesture that is directed at a woman, as long as, yes, they are not minors who have suffered sexual abuse, as in the Balearic Islands, are they? [[Applauds]] Mrs Irene Montero, stop speaking on behalf of women; stop arrogating the right to represent them and start defending them, because there is no media campaign, no means of communication or propaganda report that can hide that you, that We can, that your party voted against investigating sexual abuse of minors in Balearic Islands, Mrs Montero. [[Applauds]] There is no media campaign that can hide it, and that alone would be enough reason to censor them. Ladies and gentlemen, you have made the woman a victim, unless she thinks like you and buys all your goods: the product you have all placed, with the complicity of all the political formations present in this parliamentary arc. And I'm talking about product, yes, because it's a business; a business that all of you have introduced in companies and universities, that you already offer even masters for things we knew from the EGB; in schools, where the basic curriculum of Mathematics, History or Language is being moved by authentic Majaderías; even in the urban sphere, where even to put a swing, ladies and gentlemen, you have to measure the impact of gender. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Gentlemen of the Government, they sow hatred and are enriched by it; they live by division, they live by confrontation. This is why they defend autonomy as the ideal procedure of territorial organization, when they know that it is a system that segregates the Spaniards and fulminates their opportunities according to their place of residence. And now they defend the law of democratic memory as a method of reparation for the victims of Francoism, when it comes to an institutional campaign to rewrite history, reopen wounds from the past and gag writers and historians. In short, they defend the systemic and organized division by the Spanish, because you all know that imposing a model of society and thought will be easier in a broken Spain, and that alone, ladies and gentlemen, would be more than enough reason to censor them. Mr Sánchez, among all his trophies there is one that surpasses the rest, wants to return the Spaniards at the beginning of the 20th century, reviving old hatreds already overcome and attacking, as they did in 1934, democratic institutions. Mr. Sánchez, you want grandchildren to make war where they made peace, in families there are brothers faced because of their obsession with bringing to the present the same obsessions that have condemned misery to entire generations. [[Applauds]] And they also want to deny our young people their right to know the history of their homeland, with their lights and shadows, with their successes and their mistakes, because there is no nation that is not forged in glory and pain. They want you to resign and accept grateful, and above all smiling, the misery that you offer them, but there is an alternative. An alternative that protects the health and economy of the Spaniards. An alternative for the Spaniards to get their jobs back and receive those wages that allow them to live with dignity. An alternative for Spaniards to live safe and not be afraid to be assaulted by criminals, in many cases illegal immigrants who populate our streets. An alternative for families to be able to educate their children freely and according to their convictions. [[Applauds]] An alternative for farmers and farmers. An alternative to regaining our voice in Europe and defending our sovereignty in Brussels. An alternative to lead the iberosphere and return to Spain its key role as a cornerstone on both sides of the Atlantic. A majority alternative, ladies and gentlemen, which does not resign and is willing to defend Spain and the Spanish, to defend their dignity, their past, their present and their future, their historical continuity and their desire to overcome. [[applause]] Today, with the introduction of this motion of censure to the government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias, we have already won, because it only loses those who have no convictions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, may God bless you and may God bless our homeland, Spain. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u3	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next candidate for the Presidency of the Government, Mr Abascal Conde, has the floor. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The government of Pedro Sánchez is the worst government in eighty years of history, and I may be short, Mr Sánchez. [[applause]] And it is the government of the world that has faced the worst pandemic of the coronavirus. The Members who support him today in his speeches and who give him their confidence are responsible to the Spanish people for their public and already known misdemeanours. Your Government, Mr. Sánchez, is the only Government of democracy that has attacked the head of State, independent justice, democratic opposition, the rule of law and has turned public broadcasting, the National Intelligence Centre, the Sociological Research Centre and any democratic institution that confronts them. You are not a government; in fact, you are a popular social-communist front, in alliance with separatists and terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen, a mafia, and the Spaniards are out of patience. It has not yet been a year since the biggest electoral fraud in democracy, the biggest deception to an electorate, who came to the polls with a promise from Pedro Sánchez: not to agree with Podemos nor with the separatists or with the deputies who support the terrorist band ETA. Millions of voters were swindled in just 24 hours and I must say that, unfortunately, it is not new the deception of a government to its voters in democracy, but never, in more than 40 years of democracy, had the electoral promises betrayed so quickly, so rude and, in return, without giving the slightest explanation in this rostrum, because you have not done so since November, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Never in more than forty years of democracy has Spain had a president so eager for power that to trample his own word with such vileness. I know that Mr Garriga has perfectly reported this in the previous speech, but let me repeat it. It is my duty and it is because it will never be repeated enough that Mr Sánchez has become president of the government using bad arts and being an unscrupulous liar, capable of anything - and frightened to imagine - so as to remain in power. [[Applauds]] Only by saying this clearly in this rostrum will the Spaniards of today and the historians of tomorrow be able to understand all the injustice and all the disaster that Spain is suffering because of this government. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, you could have known, because I announced it myself in this rostrum. I announced all the calamities that his coalition of government would bring to Spain. We knew - and I said so - that with you there would be less freedom and more poverty, that there would be less coexistence and more totalitarian and sectarian ideology. We knew - and I said so - that with you there would be less law and order and more coup and more political violence. We knew - and I said so - that with you there would be less work and more subsidies and bites for accomplices and mafias and that there would be less international respect for our nation and, in return, more alliances with corrupt and criminal governments. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we knew - and I said so - that with you we would have less Spain and more misery, and that is where we are, Mr Sánchez. Because it's proven: you can't break the nation without making a palpable and clear damage to each and every Spaniard. How much we would have liked to be wrong in our predictions! How much we would have liked them to accuse us today of exaggerating and to be able to do so rightly! But it's just that even VOX wasn't able to predict that you guys would go beyond that. And I have to tell you that it is true that the Government cannot be blamed for the manufacture of the Chinese virus, but of course it can be accused of not having asked the country - China - which either artificially produced it or allowed it to spread throughout the world between concealments and deceptions. [[Applauds]] And you can also be accused of having condemned Spain simultaneously to the most severe confinement and to the highest mortality rates in the world, also between concealments and deceptions, such as China. On the contrary, when we asked you in February to suspend flights with the Asian country, what did you do? It is well known and it has been said this morning, the usual, we were called racists. The case is that this epidemic that we still suffer - that we still suffer, even though Mr Sánchez said in June that we had defeated the virus - has revealed, more if possible, the damage that unscrupulous and enemy people of the general interests of the nation are inflicting - than not infringing - on all the Spaniards. Mr Sánchez, tell me when a single government responds to me that it has done worse than you, another government that has handled this pandemic worse in the world. Tell me one country, one Government with greater confinement, greater contagion, higher mortality rates and greater ruin. The truth is that there isn't, and that's why you won't be able to tell me, and that's why we say that your management has been negligent and criminal. [[Applauds]] And I repeat negligent and criminal to make it clear how we see the facts, as some member of the Bureau of this House recently, in Soviet ways, intended to censor our description of political reality as legitimately seen by this group. It's just that we don't even know how many Spaniards have fallen for this disease. Is that 58,000, 60,000, 62,000? And we don't know that because the government has failed to fulfil its moral duty to give figures and to count dead people who are our dead. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Spain suffers from the worst management of the planet by a terrible mixture of incapacity, bad faith and sectarianism, by refusing what we asked of them in March: protecting the vulnerable, controls at source, surveillance at airports, massive and rapid PCRs and ending the useless confinements that have not saved anyone. We said it in March and repeated it: Spain has to be protected, but Spain cannot stop. And now you are taunting us with a probe balloon for a new state of alarm or a curfew, that is, you are again proposing a measure of the sixteenth century to combat a virus in which twenty-first century technology must be used. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, the government and its satellites - much better said, the mafias - have seen in the tragedy of the Spaniards an opportunity to advance certain political agendas and to implement their most abject plans, plans ranging from the simple preservation of power at all costs to the continuity of a coup process in Catalonia, designed against Spain and against freedom and negotiated for many years with declared enemies of the nation. [[Applauds]] We already knew, ladies and gentlemen - and I denounced it right here - that Paul Churches, while swearing loyalty to the king, was maneuvering to destroy the monarchy. We did not imagine then that he would be able to use death and economic destruction to accelerate that guillotine of freedoms with which we have been threatened for years with so much impunity. Death and destruction of which Pablo Iglesias is directly responsible in its worst aspect, in which it deals with the inhuman abandonment of tens of thousands of elderly in residences; tens of thousands under his responsibility, voluntarily assumed, pompously assumed and tragically assumed, Mr. Pablo Iglesias. [[applause]] They asked for medicine and sent them morphine; they begged for assistance and received silence; perhaps at their last moments they could see that well-paid cover in all the newspapers, that unique and shocking cover that proclaimed: We came out stronger. They have not come out, died alone and died abandoned, as in a horror film that so much likes some, without the extreme anointing of a priest, that is, without the spiritual assistance that many wanted in those last moments; without the hand of a good son to close his eyes; without the company of the people who loved them most. Someday history will judge them by the special cruelty in the abandonment of the dying and in the farewell they deserved in their last moments. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]] Some even knocked on the doors of their rooms to allow them to leave, but Pablo Iglesias, with Mr Sánchez's satisfaction, was too busy negotiating with etarras and tyrants and organizing attacks and caceroladas against his majesty the king; against the king and against the constitutional monarchy, to which you have the same respect as sovereignty, that is, none. They express it in their political action every day and even in their ways of dressing. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because they put on their best galas for a film festival and, however, they come here, to the seat of national sovereignty, or to the Palace of Zarzuela or the parade of the Day of Hispanicity, dressed somewhat worse than the label requires in the school bottles. [[Applauds]] Respect, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to respect this House. But make no mistake, not only do we ask for respect for the king and for sovereignty or for the uniformed military parades, we demand respect for the ushers, we demand respect for the maintenance staff of this House, for the cleaning staff of this House, we demand respect for the waiters, for the cooks and for all those who come here every day worthyly uniformed and with the decorum that this house requires while contemplating some of you dressed in any way, with those infiltrators of young men who think that by having power or by having money they may fail to respect the most basic standards of coexistence. [[applause]] [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] But if you do not respect the king or sovereignty, respect at least the workers of this House, respect them, because this is not a tavern and much less a tavern herriko, nor is it an occupied house, nor is it a black market in which the general interests are subdued to satisfy spurious and localist interests. [[Applauds]] And, as I said at the beginning of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish people have run out of patience, and that is why I believe it is the duty of this House to return the floor to the voters so that, through the vote, they can judge these months of chaos, death and ruin and freely choose representatives who truly protect and respect them, and above all representatives who tell them the truth about the gravity of the situation and the future pacts. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if this motion succeeds - and we never lose hope that some of you will fall off the horse - we will call elections before the end of this sad and tragic year, because that has been your only legacy, Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias, sadness and tragedy. Neither Spain nor the world have anything to do with the situation we had in November 2019, when the composition of this Chamber was voted on. There are new threats, there are unmasked liars and there is an international situation that requires rulers to defend the interests of all Spaniards because they are in danger of health, bread, freedom, the future and the homeland. [[Applauds]] All this is in danger, ladies and gentlemen, everything is threatened, and this Parliament was elected under very different circumstances and with electoral programmes, in addition to betrayed, inapplicable today. Therefore, it is urgent that the Spaniards be called to the polls, so that the parties address them in this new scenario and explain what can be done to recover the peace and prosperity that the Spaniards deserve. [[Applauds]] That is why - I repeat - I stand as a candidate for the presidency of the Government to resolve this anomaly and to return the vote to the Spaniards. Even in government banks they know that, unlike the last candidate in the last motion of censure, I will keep my word. [[Applauds]] With the same solemnity, I pledge that these elections will take place in a climate of freedom and equal opportunities. The security forces, those that Pablo Iglesias despises but that protect his mountains, will ensure that the political act of no legal party, of none, is not attacked. The Spanish will be able to vote without fear, as they have not been able to do so so so far in many places, because there will be an implacable government with any form of political violence. The street terrorists of separatism, their public office in rebellion or the subsidized militias of Podemos and their kidnappers will have to be very careful and not again hinder democratic freedoms, as unfortunately they have done so far with absolute impunity in all electoral processes in front of each and every one of VOX's political acts. [[Applauds]] And don't worry, Mr Vice-President, you will continue to protect your property, if necessary, even your second property. There are enough guards and police in Spain to prevent you from being disturbed in your pool and, at the same time, to prevent opposition parties from stoned by the minions you send with your infamous anti-fascist alerts. [[Applauds]] If you fell off the horse and this motion prospered, until the elections were held it would be a very small national emergency government, not like this demonstration, with people of different ideological sensibilities, as we demanded in March. [[pointing to the blue bench.-Applause]] This Government must make the necessary technical and political decisions without interference from local caciques or ideologists of banana republics; a transitional and emergency Government with the sole objective of protecting the health, security, economy of the Spaniards and immediately convening elections. That is therefore my commitment and my offer to all Members of this House, free and immediate elections. [[Applauds]] And it will be a permanent demand if this motion does not succeed, because the Government, with the help of its accomplices, will try to avoid them at all costs. Because the vice president has said that the opposition will never again come to power by democratic means and that means only one thing, that the communists will remain in power exclusively by anti-democratic means and that they will steal the ballot boxes from the Spanish until they have everything controlled and everything tied and well bound. That is why they are launching the occupation of the judiciary, the Central Electoral Board, the Centre for Sociological Research, the National Intelligence Centre and public broadcasting, because they are convinced that this will no longer be a political alternation. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you all represent national sovereignty. I am not tired of repeating this every time I rise to this rostrum because this sovereignty is attacked today by a revolutionary and coup process designed by the declared enemies of the nation, that is, it is threatened by many of you. [[Rumors]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you again, you represent national sovereignty, whether you want it or not, and those who do not want it - which there are - are simply not legitimate deputies of this Congress, and you know it; you are okupas in this House, you are coupsmen who have come to this institution to swear to destroy it, and you have been allowed to do so. I don't say it, you say it yourself, here, from your seats, when in taking office instead of swearing the charges were conjured up against the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Some explicitly and others more cowardly, such as the PNV extortioners, in a more veiled way, as always. It is not necessary to be a legal expert to understand that he cannot legitimately represent the nation that rejects that representation and has sworn to destroy it; he cannot represent the nation that has killed or applauds those who have killed to destroy it; he cannot represent the nation that still threatens, provokes violence, manipulates and deceives to weaken the nation and the Constitution. [[Applauds]] They have so far been the privileged ones of the system, they have been the children consented by bipartisanism. Any other Spanish - just as a label is required of the House's workers but not of you - to gain access to a position of public responsibility is required, at least, to meet all the requirements precisely. Not you, you charge every month for representing the nation and work every day to destroy it. [[Applauds]] It is therefore fair to point out that you, separatists and coupsmen of any region, should not be regarded as Spanish Members, since you yourselves deny that status; you should be called simply and plainly what you are, renegade, which is what you call those who deny your homeland. [[Applauds]] And yes, as we proposed to this House a few weeks ago, we consider that political parties that aspire to destroy national sovereignty, and therefore the law, and therefore the Constitution, and therefore coexistence, should not be legal in this Chamber that represents national sovereignty, so clear, so simple and so understandable. [[Applauds]] And we are not going to apologize for that, but we are going to apologize to those who have allowed you to remain illegal for forty years, paid with the taxes of all the Spaniards and working against Spain and against the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But, attention, not to say this we think of throwing hordes of energy into boycotting every political act of yours, as you do and as you did to us in Sestao. We bring a law to Parliament, we defend it, we debate it and if we lose as we lose, we accept it and we continue to work and we continue to offer a program to the Spaniards. But, I insist, it is not because we do not have the necessary majorities that we think of throwing stones at the police or at the actions of other political parties, because we, unlike you, are democrats and respect public freedoms. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] However, you - and now I refer not only to the renegade, but also to the allies of Venezuelan drug addiction and the government as a whole - have publicly promoted and promoted hatred of VOX and, therefore, harassment of VOX and other opposition parties that have ended up in violence and aggression, and half of this has been the victim of this Parliament's stand. And not only that, you have promoted in your organizations, even in this House, people convicted of insulting and assaulting police; you have publicly participated in tributes to serial killers; you are always on the side of those who violate borders and attack our police and our civilian guards; in short, you promote political violence simply and simply because you want to break the rules of the game to play with advantage. But we have to warn you of something: this is not a game, it's about the coexistence between all of us and we have to tell you that we are not going to stand still while you trample on the coexistence. [[Applauds]] Do you really believe that the majority of the Spanish people will remain paralyzed while stealing their freedoms, their nation and their future? That its well-subsidized, well-subsidized media hides the many demonstrations that have taken place against this Government does not mean that they do not exist, it simply means the opposite: that they will increase until they are heard. The most curious thing about all this is that while you do all this: incite hatred, encourage violence, break out of coexistence and not protect us when you attack us, you have the defachability of accusing others of hate crimes, but this is also not something new. Actually nothing in you is new, they are the same totalitarian rubbles of all universal history. When in the last century his beloved leaders erected a wall to turn communist nations into gigantic prisons, that ignominy was called by the same facsimile anti-fascist protection wall. Young people, who already do not know who Miguel Ángel Blanco was, will find it hard to believe, but it was so, the regimes that Mr. Garzón so much likes - who usually wear t-shirts to defend them - murdered those who wanted to leave, and of that disgusting regime, which machine-gunned those who wanted to escape, you make apologie from the government's blue bank. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] You call antifascism to all the evils, crimes and genocides that have occurred under your flags of hatred and misery, but what you say, in you is nothing new or original, you are dedicated only to copying the manuals of chaos, which we have already learned to know, that wrote other genocidals a long time ago. The only safety of the Spaniards is that you, even with your own will, are far less clever than Lenin. [[Applauds]] Some groups and deputies who are not involved in the destruction process embodied in this Government have announced that they will not support this motion. Believe me, I respect all those who in good faith consider this motion to be barren and inappropriate. I ask you in return only the same respect for us and for millions of Spaniards who think that this motion is urgent and necessary because it is about stopping the process of destruction of Spain, a process that began Rodriguez Zapatero by adding ETA to a common front against the entire democratic right and that this government, adding ETA, but also Catalan coup, is accelerating in the middle of a brutal epidemic of coronavirus. [[applause]] I maintain the offer to all of you to build an alternative not only political, but cultural, economic and territorial model based on coexistence, freedom, equality, unity and diversity in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us here must assume that no one will come to save us; of course, no one will come to save us from them, but no one will come to rescue us either. It is important to know this because some of you have lost faith in the Spanish people and put your hopes only in Brussels, or in the investment funds, or in Davos, or in the International Monetary Fund, or in the World Bank, or in the multinationals, and we come here to say that we have a duty to assume our historical responsibility. Spain can only be rescued by the Spanish. [[Applauds]] We depend only on ourselves to overcome this moment and Spain alone has overcome even worse times. Some, and not just Members, but also intellectuals, entrepreneurs, communicators, do not believe in it because they have ended up in a sticky melancholy fruit of having consumed until they were fed up with all the black topics and legends that have been made against our nation. And we come here to say that no, that it will not save us Brussels, before it will save us Monsters again. [[Applauds]] You are not in any case, and I am speaking in general to the House, the first to resort to the complex mantra of more Europe, more Europe. We believe that it is an easy resource, especially if Europe is to receive manna, the money it avoids taking the necessary measures to make Spain a viable and sustainable state. The myth of Ortega and Gasset that Spain was the problem and Europe the solution has never been true, Europe is not our solution, but, as you continue in the government, we will end up being your problem. [[Applauds]] We prefer in any case the diagnosis of amunian, which saw in Spain a hope for the old continent, which is now also an old continent and which must look towards the iberosphere if it wants to survive. [[Applauds]] The iberosphere is a concept in which I will then stop something because it is one of the keys to the future and to the solutions that Spain needs. But of course the solution, ladies and gentlemen, will not come from an insatiable European oligarchy, with Soviet aspirations, which devours astronomical sums of money while frantically producing regulations and directives of a machine that already has its own life outside the very democratic and sovereign will of nations. On the pretext of saving us from apocalyptic prophecies or from our own nature they intend to impose plans of control or direction of behaviors and interferences in the lives of nations, families and individuals like us only accept literary and cinematographic dystopias. The old European bipartisanism has turned Brussels into a dehumanized machine that aspires to control everything, promoting the division and ruin of peoples. And that money that you are making for having made, Mr Sánchez - you have finally made much less of the money that you were applauding here in that scene -, that money that you have made after begging for the European institutions, we have to tell you that you are not going to arrive in time or in the amount enough to save the Spaniards from the economic catastrophe that your criminal management of the epidemic has caused. [[Applauds]] And I have to say that the Spaniards will pay for it with the biggest social cuts in democracy, because the only thing that the PSOE and all the socialists have been able to redistribute throughout their history has been poverty. In exchange for cash to continue his play he is willing not only to owe the Spanish for generations and at unimaginable levels, but also to make the nation and the state disappear devoured. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is being robbed of it by duet: through its neck the despotic machinery of Brussels is chained and through its feet the autonomy and separatists are so failed as traitors, and in the middle you are right now. But the Spaniards are not going to allow their nation to disappear into a region of a moderate replica of the People's Republic of China. They will not impose a progressive and globalist tyranny on us. And the Spaniards are not going to be alone because throughout Europe there is an awakening that gains ground in defense of its sovereignty and in defense of its western identity, that demands the nation-state as an irreplaceable unity and supreme space of democracy and that rejects a mega-federal state that looks too much like the People's Republic of China, the Soviet Union or even Hitler-dreamed Europe. [[Applauds]] But it is not written in stone that that has to be the case, there is no physical law that says that Europeans cannot return to the founding spirit of the European Union. There is no physical law that says that Europeans have to stand idly by while consensus progress turns the best civilization in history into a pile of ashes. That consensus has failed and is a fact, we check it every day and in all parliaments of all nations. And those who have put us in this situation are not fit to rebuild Europe's future. Nothing's going to go better with them, nothing's going to go better with you. Fortunately, in all parts of Europe and in many parts of the Western world, patriotic forces and movements are growing, which are not going to stand idly by while degenerate oligarchies turn entire nations into multicultural terns. [[Applauds]] VOX wants the nation-state, Spain, to be the guarantor of citizens' freedom and prosperity. A freedom and interests that often succumb under the pressure of powers of hegemonic groups or major lobbyists of globalism, such as that protector of his, the financial speculator and anti-national conspirator who is George Soros; the first guest he received in the Moncloa, almost gave him no time nor to change mattress. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] She always laughs; Madam President, I would ask you to offer her a reply to tell us if it is true that you received Mr Soros in the Moncloa once and for all, because we have asked him so many times and Mr Sánchez always responds laughing and trying to ridicule our position. As Mr Sánchez is not very interested in this subject, I will explain it; Mr Soros - for those who do not know or do not want to know - is a declared enemy of the European borders, of the American President and also of the State of Israel. That billionaire speculator enriched with the suffering of millions of people never receives the attack of the left surprisingly, neither of the political left nor of the media left, although he has even acknowledged that he made money with the victims of the Holocaust. What and how much do you owe Mr. Soros? How much of the damage you do to Spain has been explained in that obedience? Why did you order the National Intelligence Centre to protect Mr. Soros? Why did you order the National Intelligence Centre to protect globalism when the only thing it would have to defend is Spain's sovereignty? [[Applauds]] One day we will know, and if it is like the rest in his Government, one day the courts will judge him, of course the courts will judge him. Or do you really believe that national sovereignty can be threatened in this way without being held accountable to a judge? Do you really believe that national sovereignty can be threatened in this way, also without being held accountable to the Spanish people, to whom they are stealing all the inheritance of their parents and all the future of their children? [[Applauds]] But let us put aside that sinister ally of yours, Mr. Sánchez, and let us take up our role in a world that is changing at a dizzying speed. I am going to extend something in the international situation because, while here you are working on talking about whether a young man from Bilbao feels more or less Spanish or about the sex of chickens or the sexual rights of chickens, there are radical changes going on out there, changes that will directly affect the lives and opportunities of today's Spaniards and tomorrow's Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, multilateralism has shown that it is by no means the best formula in international relations. And we see many reasons for regaining bilateralism in which mutual respect is a fundamental part of the relationship between nations. In this sense, we want - and we have more and more party support in all the Member States - a reform of the European Union to return to its founding spirit and to put an end to its federalist dreams, which are intended to destroy and make a clean picture of nation-states. [[Applauds]] I have to say that in other global organizations we see less possibility of amendment and in many of them, almost certainly, the best possible decision would be to stop contributing to them immediately and to propose cooperation in a different way. Many are already only instruments of globalism to impose by coercion, blackmail or bribery, criteria of conduct and ideology. It is scandalous that Western countries finance - whether through the EU, through the UN or other institutions - policies aimed at destroying the family, promoting abortion or pederasty and introducing methods of indoctrination and ideological imposition. They have become totalitarian organizations in which a democratic nation has the same weight as a totalitarian State; aggressive against the free Western societies and extortioners of the defenseless Third World societies, which they enslave while defending the worst tyranny; in addition to having turned those institutions into deeply corrupt. Scandalism has been the case of the World Health Organization, to which the People's Republic of China has become one more instrument of its expansionist power. I see certain laughter when we talk about China on this side of the bench too, they have a friendship pact with the Chinese Communist Party, which would do well to break soon. [[points to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group]] [[Applauds]] China's expansionist power, which we checked at the end of 2019 and the beginning of this terrible year 2020, when the World Health Organization participated in the cover-up operation of the coronavirus epidemic in Wuhan and hid the information provided by Taiwan, which, by the way, we should again treat as a full State on the international stage. The truth is that on those dates, China hid the reality of the pandemic from the world and that concealment has led to a million deaths and millions of people being ruined. And the World Health Organization was the ally of the Beijing regime against the rest of the world. That is why we consider that the President of the United States did the right thing by cancelling his participation in the World Health Organization. They laugh at the bottom banks because what they want is to double the bet. That share of the United States was 20% of the World Health Organization's total budget compared to 2% of China, which was ultimately in charge. The United States had done the same before with Unesco, an organization dedicated to the service of anti-Western and anti-Semitic leftist indoctrination. China has become, ladies and gentlemen - already before the suspected contagion of the coronavirus to outside its borders - the greatest threat to the free world. Hopes for a more tolerant and open China, thanks to economic development, have not occurred. With development and capitalism controlled by the Chinese Communist Party the regime is more relentless than ever, but also now with immense resources at the service of dictatorship, nomenclature and all its political ends. Your rearmament is colossal, ladies and gentlemen, and while the economies are sinking in the rest of the world, especially that of Spain, China is already taking off, after having hidden the information from everyone. That's why we say China has to pay. [[Applauds]] Inside China, ladies and gentlemen - and this seems to matter very little - terror reigns and the slightest discrepancy is fiercely repressed. They care very little about this because some have the same plans for Spain. Hundreds of thousands of prisoners of conscience and entire populations, for ethnic or religious reasons, are subjected to brutal repression; they have even nationalized the Catholic Church to put it at the service of the party, for which, by the way, they have had regrettable and sad complicitys. This is a reality of which little or nothing is reported to the Spaniards, of course in this House, but not in the media, while all, in suspect unanimity, say nothing but barbarities of the president of a country, the United States, in which they would like to live millions of people around the world seeking freedom and prosperity. This scale is truly surprising. Although some were surprised, the rafters did not go from Miami to Havana, but the other way around. They have created a totally distorted image of the President of the United States and of everything that happens in that country, but also with harmful consequences for our economy. You're a bunch of lynxes. The big European countries have seen Trump correcting tariffs, less Spain. The hostility of the government of Pedro Sánchez and his subsidized means towards the US was also placed in the loss of contracts for Navantia worth 18 billion euros. That money has gone to Italy, ladies and gentlemen, it was work for thousands of workers and it was work during lusters. You, Mr. Sánchez, and your Bolivarian friends have made it. [[Applauds]] In the United States, constitutional forces are facing the totalitarian roller of an increasingly violent and more brutish left, which has the unprecedented support of large capitals, academic elites and some technological plutocracy, with the difference from Spain that this totalitarian and violent roller in the United States is in opposition, burning the street, and in Spain its reflection, that is, you are in the Government, thanks to Mr. Rajoy's trembling knees and thanks to the support of the coups and the terrorists. [[Applauds]] Although you sometimes ingenuate them to do two things at the same time and, while forcing police and civilian guards to protect them, you send your sequencing streetmen against those same police and civilian guards, as we saw very recently in front of the Madrid Assembly. Because you are able to make revolution to yourselves so long as you always lose yourselves, that is, ordinary men and women. That's why they set the street on fire with subsidized thugs, where it's needed, as we've been shown all these months. You are in power and play the subversion because you are a government against the state, a government against the nation and, of course, a government against the king, to whom you have confined and which cannot defend itself from your institutional betrayal. And on top of that they claim - and we have been told from the blue bank - that the Spanish or the deputies do not defend you while you claim the right to betray him and the Constitution. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you're not going to. We are going to defend the Constitution, the rule of law and the parliamentary monarchy, because we do have the law and the Constitution, here, in the United States and in all free nations. [[applause]] We are with those who defend and build churches against those who burn them; we are with those who protect the statues of the founders of American democracy, for example - and, by the way, also of the Spanish footprint in North America - against the barbarity of those who tear them down and destroy them. We are with those who defend law, order and freedom. You are with Antifa terrorists in the United States and with Alsasua terrorists here in Spain and, of course, you are with your friends and co-religionaries of narcosocialism, which is the drug mafia in Ibero-America, with ideological left-wing clothing. [[applause]] There they have on the bench of a government party the lawyer and representative of the FARC in their main negotiations; the FARC, ladies and gentlemen, the Colombian communist guerrilla whose main activity is the trafficking of cocaine. I don't say that, says the DEA, the U.S. anti-drug organization, which considers the FARC, along with the Maduro Suns cartel and its military, the world's largest cocaine trafficking organization. For there they are sitting Don Enrique Santiago Romero, a native of Madrid, by profession: the defense of the interests of FARC, that is, of drug traffickers, kidnappers and rapists of minors in Colombia. [[Applauds]] Enrique Santiago, secretary general of the Communist Party and right hand of Churches, or the other way around, we don't know. It is not strange; in fact the FARC, like so many others, ultimately obey the same common command of the Sao Paulo Forum, which they now want to call Puebla Group. We think that Puebla cartel would be much more appropriate; an authentic international mafia. I understand that it bothers you that this is said and that you are concerned that what is already published in the middle of the world is said in this rostrum. I understand that you are concerned, but you must be sure that we will continue to speak and continue to denounce here and in every competent court the international drug and terrorism mafias, their accomplices and their employees, they are called Zapatero, they are called Garzones, they are called Sanchez, they are called Churches or they are called Currency. [[Applauds]] In fact, through the Dissenso Foundation we have been promoting the Madrid Charter for a few days, in defense of freedom and democracy throughout the iberosphere. The letter is signed by political and social leaders with different and even divergent political views and ideas, but they agree on the fundamental thing, which is to defend all that you today attack: the rule of law, the rule of law, the separation of powers, freedom of expression and private property, attacked in many nations of Hispano America and attacked in a growing way in Spain. I would like to take this opportunity to thank those men and women for their participation in an initiative that must be beyond the parties, in defense of everything that unites us, and it is a great deal that unites us in the iberosphere, that community that shares more than seven hundred million people around the world, with two languages, and that has the challenge of becoming one of the most relevant regions on the international stage. I know that to you, Mr. Sánchez, this is great because you only came to be in power as long as possible and had no more plan than to give pleasure to your ego, which is already a full-time activity, but you have had the misfortune of only being able to fulfill your dream in fatal embrace with Mr. Churches. And Mr. Iglesias has the same picture as you, he is another narcissist, but he unlike you has a commission; a commission of those who brought him here in flounces with blood money, with money of misery, with money of ruin and with money of dictatorships. [[Applauds]] You just wanted to command; well, I have to tell you that you don't command, that you're just managing an international mafia project and that you don't have the guts to take the opposite of the mafia bosses. [[Applauds]] For the same reason, ladies and gentlemen, because the mafia threat is serious, it is essential to achieve effective separation of powers and to end this outrageous spectacle of the prosecutor, minister and commissioner in alliance with the sinister Baltasar Garzón - who is a predator expelled from the judiciary - by dictating together measures to terrorize judges and prosecutors alike. The judges should ask them: how many times has Delcy Rodriguez come to Spain with his suitcases?, how many other members of the Venezuelan narcocommunist mafia?, and his friend Evo Morales or Rafael Correa, both persecuted for various crimes, some abominable?, why doesn't that general general of the intelligence of Chávez, Hugo Carvajal, who was at good disposal in Spain and who should have been handed over to the United States, who knows so much about the looting of Venezuelan oil, who knows so much about Rodriguez Zapatero and the participation of Monedero and Mr. Iglesias in the construction of the bloodiest tyranny in Iberoamerica? They won't answer me, but I hope some day they'll answer it to some judge. At least we'll work on it. [[Applauds]] And I must tell you that we are not like others, we are persevering and we are effective, if not, ask Mr Puigdemont and Mr Torra. [[Applauds]] At the moment Hugo Carvajal is another of the thousands of illegal immigrants who camp wide for Spain, we do not know hidden by whom and protected by whom. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the narco-socialism mafia is not the only government ally. The close cooperation between the Government of Sánchez and the human trafficking mafia has led to a so-called effect, the consequences of which are suffered by ordinary Spaniards, although it is welcomed by large oligarchs from Brussels and some executives from large multinationals. This migration camp supports and promotes the invasion of our coasts and ensures the interests only of the privileged, but never of the families or of the neighbors. The powerful will never suffer the harmful effects of these avalanches because in their urbanizations, with private security or with Police, the MENA - Spain has received more than 20,000 since 2014- neither steals nor assaults nor rapes, but they should talk to their relatives, those who are in the neighborhoods, who are in the villages, those who have left there, and they should ask them what they think of illegal immigration. I can tell you that I know that some of your family members are voting exclusively for that; not only do you know that I know it, but you know it. They know that we must end the so-called effect of which the traffickers of people live and which leads to the drama of many people in the Mediterranean. It is no coincidence that the ports of Morocco or Algeria were filled with travel promotions to Spain after the approval of the minimum living income. Your migration policies, in addition to insecurity, poverty and conflict - which you have brought - make you responsible for all the tragedy and all the deaths that occur in the Mediterranean because you are calling them, you are offering them a false promise, you are confusing them. It is you who have no sensitivity, not those who say that immigration must be regulated and produced in a certain way. [[Applauds]] We must stop that tragedy in the Mediterranean immediately, ladies and gentlemen. We must strengthen the State Security Forces and Corpses and also our armies and equip them with all the necessary legal and material tools to deal with the violent avalanches of illegal immigrants against our police and our civilian guards. The borders must be shielded, but our seas must also be shielded so that black pirates, Magrebian traffickers, Algerians or NGOs cannot approach our shores and cannot deal with the suffering of thousands of people. [[Applauds]] That is why we must abandon their disastrous conception of defence, which has led to the ill-treatment of our soldiers to unacceptable limits, perhaps because you mistreat everyone who carries a flag of Spain on his shoulder, chest or in simple straps, with whom you have made mockery, by the way, even though some now carry it in the mask to disguise. All immigrants who enter our soil illegally must be expelled immediately. Anyone who violates our legislation, who assaults our borders, who assaults our police and civilian guards cannot be released within twenty-four or forty-eight hours for him to camp wide, but must be permanently interned until his repatriation. The so-called NGOs that have made the humanitarian drama in Africa a genuine business must be persecuted. Those who promote illegal and mass immigration, with its harmful effects on Spanish society, on European societies, cannot only receive a euro from the Spanish citizens to whom they are harming, must be persecuted for collaborating with the human trafficking mafias. [[Applauds]] And yes, we must also deport those illegal immigrants who commit serious crimes so that, through conventions, they have to serve their sentences in their countries and, also, those who have turned the mild crime into a way of life. Moreover, for years now, we have been saying, do not be shocked again, and those who have obtained it must withdraw their nationality and use that privilege to attack the rule of law, the parliamentary monarchy and national symbols. It must be done as many Members of this House as they are. [[Applauds]] It is urgent and of absolute necessity for immigrants who have come to work honestly among us who together with them denounce those who have come to commit crime, those who have come to bring us tyranny or to break our homeland because, ladies and gentlemen, immigration policy must be subordinated to the interests and economic needs of Spain and also to the capacity and will to integrate the immigrant. Yes, we say to the capacity and the will to integrate the immigrant, because even France in progress of Mr Macron, the idol of Citizens, is expelling more than two hundred suspects of jihadism. It has been realized that Islam, especially if it receives influence and foreign funding, becomes a danger to the host civilization. Jihadism must be taken seriously because it has not disappeared and because it continues to behead people under the cry of 'God is great'. Last week it happened again and it wasn't a lone wolf; a group of them were arrested. And not only do they act with knives; they also do so through education by scorning women, whom other groups here then use to make scenes, or by sowing hatred for civilization in those countries that are hosting them. [[Applauds]] There are not a few, ladies and gentlemen, Muslim magnets who try to warn us about it while you look elsewhere, with that complex - I think stupid - of whom he hates his own culture and kneels before any culture that is alien. In Catalonia, because of the racist rejection of Hispanic American immigration imposed by the corrupt Pujol, it is already closer to the horror experienced by some European societies. And another prediction: if the renegade could ever break Spain, which will not happen, they would only be able to create the Catalan Islamic Republic. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is all that needs to be done, but if this motion does not succeed, I ask you to at least restrict the capacity of the pateras, to say that there is a certain number that can be allowed or to ask them at least the same requirements that they have asked a citizen of Fuenlabrada to enter Madrid. Perhaps that would be enough to alleviate the disaster that you are promoting, disaster of coexistence and economic disaster. Because the national economy is facing an unprecedented crisis, a devastating crisis, with the worst debt to gross domestic product in eighty years, with the worst economic contraction in eighty years and with the worst government - in the hands of communists who have spread misery and ally with separatists and coups - in eighty years. In the coming months we will experience levels of poverty that we did not imagine, while you play the violin of sorority and Mondays without flesh. Don't go around, don't be foolish. There's going to be Spaniards and there's going to be families who won't have meat all week. The nation's economy is not at the service of the Spaniards today, it is kidnapped by the illegitimate agenda of Sánchez and the separatists with the support - all to be said - of large companies and some multinationals who are doing business with the ruin of Spain. In just a few months, already before the Chinese pandemic, this government placed us at the door of a recession. The results of its negligent management and sectarian policy have led us to an even greater disaster as a result of the virus. In the first six months of this year Spain has suffered the biggest destruction of the euro area. Employment faces the worst figures in history, youth unemployment is the highest in Europe, exports fall as never before, tourism collapses completely between Mr Garzón's insults and trade recedes, especially small trade, while others get rich. All these facts that you despise or adulterate are Spanish suffering, Spanish suffering because of you, ladies and gentlemen. They've abandoned the wage earners. They've abandoned the little traders. They have abandoned early-morning Spain, those who do not live in Mafia interests and therefore do not applaud or rush to the calls of a president who is primarily responsible for economic ruin. How good it would be for the Spaniards if the big companies of the IBEX, always so willing to applaud the preaching progress, came so hard to defend the interests of the nation and the current Spaniards! [[Applauds]] If this government had thought of the current Spaniards, it would have endorsed VOX's proposal to pay the payroll to the workers and self-employed who were prohibited from working during the imposition of their state of emergency, of which, by the way, the Constitutional Court has not yet said anything, disrespecting not only this group but this House. But paying the current Spanish payroll was not their priority; on the contrary, you also reject the moratoriums on the payment of taxes that we proposed. We find that Spain will suffer the biggest recession on the planet in 2020, that the destruction of employment is already the most intense in Europe and that the deterioration of the productive fabric is being devastating. If we follow the same path we run many risks, but there is one that is terrible, Mr Sánchez, and he will be led by the Government if we do not remedy it today, ladies and gentlemen, which is the ruin of the welfare state and the emergence of poverty of unknown dimensions in recent generations. You lead us there. [[Applauds]] You lead us to that poverty and the young - many of you are not listening to us because you are studying, the younger ones will probably listen to us this afternoon - already live worse than your parents and, if you continue to rule, you will end up living worse than your grandparents and worse than your great-grandfathers. I hope in this warning I am mistaken, but I fear that we will be right, as we have done so far in relation to all the forecasts of your disgovernment; from your hand, Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, comes total ruin. First, because we weren't ready. Of course a pandemic is something unpredictable, you have said it in this rostrum on many occasions, but what is not unpredictable is the possibility of adverse economic events occurring over time. That is why, at both national and European level, there are rules of budgetary discipline that can be summed up in the simple phrase that any mother would say to us: always save a little for when the bad times come. And the last governments have done exactly the opposite of what the common sense dictates what any mother would tell us. That part of guilt of course is not yours, Mr. Sánchez, it's shared, but the first actions when you were already here the virus is your responsibility. They wanted to tell us then that the economic effects of the epidemic were temporary and that in a short time things would be exactly as before. Did the government really believe that? Did you really believe that? Was it really thought that strict health measures, that the destruction of economic activity, that job losses, that the most severe confinement, that the collapse of international trade, that the practice of the disappearance of tourism activity, that the attack on bars and restaurants, would not leave our economy ill for decades to come? Did you really believe that? Either ignorance or lies, and with you it's hard to know because you're very fond of both. There is no doubt that in a crisis like this it is necessary to survive as many businesses and jobs as possible, and this requires exceptional spending measures and some revenue, but it is also necessary to have a credible exit plan that guarantees the future of Spain. The Spanish public deficit will be around 15% this year according to some indicators, i.e. around EUR 160 billion. At the end of the year each Spanish household will be able to owe 10 000 more euros as a result of its disastrous management. The weakness of our economy, the situation to which we have been led, has also compromised Spain's sovereignty and independence. And no, we haven't come out stronger, we haven't actually come out, and now, even worse, we're more dependent and less sovereign by being more subject to our creditors. Although there is no exit plan and everything is being improvised and negotiated as it comes also in a complex government, it is obvious to anyone, even to the government, that Spanish public debt cannot continue to increase to infinity and that the European Central Bank cannot issue indefinitely astronomical amounts of money to buy the same debt. You know, all of you; you know that this flight forward has an end. You can raise the spending ceiling as you intend to debt ten generations, as you will soon approve irresponsibly, but someone will have to lend them, someone will have to lend us, and I don't think the drug cartels that you join in Colombia, Bolivia or Venezuela want to finance Spain. Those criminals only send suitcases to corrupt politicians, not to finance the debt, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] While they're waiting for someone to save them, they're proposing reforms just the opposite. Well, while you're waiting for someone to save you and us, because our fate is united to that of all of you. But the reforms they put forward are all in the opposite direction. That is, for example, to apply the same working conditions to companies in a sector, in a particular province or even at national level. The most absurd at the moment; each company is struggling to get ahead as best it can, let them and the workers' representatives decide. Or does a fancy restaurant have the same problems as a pizzeria? It cannot be treated in the same way as those with different circumstances. Another example of negligence or lies: minimum living income. They sell it as an emergency action in the face of the social crisis caused by the epidemic. If they had done that, we would actually have nothing to object to, we have already said, but it does not serve to help those who are suffering this crisis, since it is based on the incomes of 2019, because it is half-legislative and not equal but increases the differences between autonomous communities, because they have not coordinated this state aid with the already varied and existing aids of the different regions and autonomy, and, above all, they have not even provided the means to deal with them. That, yes, they have had an effect, which we have said before, and it is the irresponsible and harmful effect called towards North Africa. Ladies and gentlemen, you have learned nothing. They are doing exactly the same as in the previous crisis, which is confusing the productive and competitive part of the Spanish economy, consisting essentially of small traders, professionals and self-employed, which is the one that always brings us forward, with the big companies of regulated sectors, those that live in the BOE and the big public contracts, and on whose boards of directors they will want to sit in a few years, as now are those that preceded them in ruining us. For this reason, the Government is dedicated to meeting and negotiating with large multinationals and large banks, while putting sticks on the wheels that are early to work, those that raise the blind, those who are looking for work and have been abandoned to their fate, like the elderly in the residences of Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] You are sinking the economy of families, SMEs and the self-employed, while the big companies of the revolving doors make a lot of money. It is incredible, not to say directly immoral, that the government stripped the middle classes to further enrich the great monopolists, as they do now with the bank mergers, supported by those who were going to recover the public bank. In short, because of your inability, your negligence, your sectarianism and your lies, the cuts will come very soon or, rather, you will return, as in Zapatero's time, reducing pensions, lowering the salary to the civil servants and raising taxes to all, not just the rich, to all, especially to the middle class, that is the only thing you know how to do. [[Applauds]] And remember this prognosis, ladies and gentlemen, because I fear that, unfortunately, we will also be right. There is only one way to regain prosperity, and it is a completely opposite direction from which all of you follow, and I say all of you. Firstly, the most urgent political measure is to eliminate ineffective political spending. There are many Spaniards who may wonder what this is about inefficient political spending, and I answer it with a clear and visual example: this bench, the most oversized government in our history. [[pointing to the blue bench]] [[Applauds]] This bench is the symbol of the waste of Spanish money and of the shame with the use of other people's money. In fact, we should not call it inefficient spending, but effective spending only for their interests, their corruption and their divisive and disruptive agendas, which is what the money of all Spaniards is spent on. Because that suicidal agenda, along with the narcissism and egotism of Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Iglesias, costs the Spanish money. This is the most expensive and elephantic government in the history of democracy. Twenty-three blue seats, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-three. But it is not enough to eliminate their excesses, their legions of advisors and their dearest propaganda, it is also necessary to suppress the autonomous waste. Thousands and billions wasted on promoting divisions and inequalities among the Spaniards, producing doubles, even triples, and suffocating the Spaniards in all regions with obstacles, taxes, regulations and 3% corruption inherent in some local chiefs. It is a waste that endangers the welfare state, which endangers pensions, which endangers the bread of our retirees. You too have been burdened with market unity and yet continue to blindly defend the autonomous state. A system in which only large companies can operate comfortably, because they are the only ones with sufficient legal services to be able to grow, to be able to establish themselves and to exclude SMEs and workers. As if to set up a pipe station or to be a Spanishman of full right had one to be a professor of administrative law, no longer do I tell them to set up a company at national level, in that case the entire cloister of the Faculty of Law must be required. [[Applauds]] For all this, ladies and gentlemen, we propose to you, as we did years ago, the overcoming of the autonomous state. As long as that is not possible, because it requires constitutional reform, we propose the return of powers and the recovery of the national single market. But more needs to be done, Spain must continue to protect those who, because of the epidemic, cannot work; we must recover as soon as possible the jobs destroyed during this crisis and then generate new jobs as never before in Spain. Workers need more jobs, more stable and better paid. Therefore, I take the opportunity to welcome the emergence of the Union Solidarity, a union that will truly defend the workers and that will be transparent, not like the trade union mafia that we have endured and that hides, under red flags, the permanent looting of our employees and the defense of expired and harmful ideologies that always lead us to misery. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, we can cut as well. Public subsidies to political parties, trade unions and employers' organizations must be abolished immediately and radically, because it is not fair for the Spaniards to carry the burden of supporting us all. [[Applauds]] To parties that finance their associates. If we want to facilitate job creation and fair wages, we cannot maintain one of the highest levels of social contributions in Europe. A mileurist in Spain is, in fact, a dosmileurist docked by the state or docked by the progressive consensus. We need more companies paying less, except for the big tech multinationals, those do have to pay more, much more, especially because, thanks to you, they don't pay anything. Listen, as far as these technological billionaires are concerned, the business they do in Spain has to be taxed in Spain. I would say more, the data they collect in Spain must be paid to the Spanish, provided they are given permission to use them. This is a very important issue and is one of the keys to the future in the middle of the debate on 5G, the sovereignty that people and nations must have over data. Let's go back to taxes. Simply - we have heard it more often - we must lower them, all of them, and eliminate many of them, which are profoundly unfair and which harm economic activity. VOX has already raised how the welfare state, now threatened by its waste policies, can be made and strengthened at the same time. Because the truth is that between the last Minister of Finance and the present one there is only one difference, and it is a letter in his surnames, in everything else they coincide: waste and expoliation. Let us take another path, we must reindustrialize Spain. That is why they must stop attacking and marginalizing the nation's main economic sector, which today is tourism, ladies and gentlemen. Thousands of workers and entrepreneurs have turned tourism into a world-leading industry despite the contempt with which you treat it, Mr Garzón. But not only can we live from tourism, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps that is what they would like in Germany. Nothing explains, only the ideological agenda of consensus progresses again, that Spain renounces an ambitious industrial sector. It is essential to say this in this rostrum, it was a huge mistake to allow that process of deindustrialization in the 1980s, and now you want to deepen that path. The closures and layoffs in Nissan, As Pontes, Airbus, Navantia, Alcoa and so many others show that our industry bleeds, ladies and gentlemen. Since 2008, Spanish industry has lost 700,000 jobs. On the other hand, almost 100 000 qualified Spaniards have had to leave for the last decade because of the unemployment and job insecurity that Spain suffers. Meanwhile, the cost of the Ministry of Equality, with all that counseling, is 180 million euros according to the 2018 General Budgets. We stand before the most expensive Vanity Fair cover of history, ladies and gentlemen, and this is a demonstration that you never wanted to end the caste; you wanted to be the caste. [[applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must protect our industry, we must end the entry of products from third countries that do not comply with the rules to which we subject our producers, especially with regard to labour, environmental and quality regulation. We are condemning our camp and industry to compete against economies whose main strength is the slave labour force, so the relocation and precariousness of employment are permanent and will continue to be permanent if we do not remedy it urgently. [[Applauds]] Let us also talk about the automotive sector, including the auxiliary industry, in which Spain is a world leader. Well, the declared hostility shown by the government of Pedro Sánchez has put in serious difficulties an industry that guarantees 200 000 jobs in Spain. The irresponsible war declared against diesel, of which Spain is the first manufacturer in Europe, is already penalizing not only industry but especially the most modest Spaniards. Just as nothing explains - only the ideological agenda of consensus progresses, that of what is laughed at every time I repeat it - that Spain is among the countries that pay the most expensive electricity. The Government, with its decree-laws, and the National Commission on Markets and Competition - in which the husband of the fourth vice-president of the Government is unreservedly involved - have given €3 billion to the energy sector, which will pay all families and SMEs in the receipt of light. Come here, ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk to you about conservationism, or ecology if you prefer; that is, about the care of nature, about the conservation of the environment, about the respect for the natural legacy that we have received from our parents and that we have a duty to deliver intact, and if possible improved, to our children. It seems a lie that I am forced to explain what it means for us to preserve the environment in this rostrum, but I am obliged because you continue in the ancestral worship of Mother Earth and of atmospheric phenomena such as primitive cultures. You, who laugh at believers and harass them, are in the superstition of every storm, every hurricane, every volcano and every drought. You have bought a superstitious religion very similar to that of the Shamans and the Witches, with which you deceived the tribes to increase their power - and when I say you do not refer only to those who are here, but in the concert of the nations there has been a fairly broad consensus progress in this sense -; Shamans, Witches or Mr. Al Gore, who has become billionaire with apocalyptic predictions. You keep looking at the sky and announcing the apocalypse; we look at every stop, every business that closes, every Spanish that is fired from the industry for its positions and every personal future that fades. [[Applauds]] Because we are with the Spanish people, not with sick, degraded and hypocritical oligarchies that sell us new religions from their mansions and tell us how to live, what to eat, how to dress and how to travel; that is, they tell us from private planes or from helicopters that they use to leave an ecological summit and go hunting roosts. He said that I come to talk about true ecology, that is, conservationism with proposals of common sense, because you only know how to deal with problems in two ways: by criminalizing dissent - by saying this you call us negatists and all these things that are invented - or by creating useless superstructures in which to place friends with millions of dollars. Do not ask us to accept what Mr Solana said, perhaps projecting himself, that man is a virus on earth, but for a few minutes I will give a good idea that climate change, whose existence is undeniable, originates in man-made CO2 emissions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the world's leading CO2 emitters, which are almost all the major economies, refuse to reduce their emissions, while Spain, which emits only 0.7 % of the world's CO2, is plagued by irresponsible decarbonisation targets that ruin the current Spanish. Can you imagine the null impact that the disappearance of all Spain would have on the atmosphere? To be understood, if our entire economy were paralyzed, only seven out of every thousand CO2 particles emitted by all mankind would be reduced. It is not worth everything to reduce CO2 emissions, ladies and gentlemen, Spain must bet on energy sovereignty. We cannot be closing the thermal power plants in Spain by sending thousands of families to unemployment, while we buy energy to Morocco produced with coal. [[Applauds]] Because I inform you that we share an atmosphere with Morocco, not just pateras, ladies and gentlemen. We invest, therefore, in inexhaustible energies: photovoltaic, wind, hydraulic and also nuclear so that Spain is self-sufficient in electricity consumption. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is another way to take care of the atmosphere and not perish in the attempt or become slaves of polluting powers as we now do. In order to reduce net CO2 emissions it is not necessary to return to the Stone Age, it is also possible to increase CO2 absorption. How? Creating CO2 sinks, ladies and gentlemen, and nature gives us one that is fantastic, that is ecological, that is sustainable, that is biodegradable and that is eco friendly, as they say now: plants. There are countries like Germany that already have practically all their geography covered by forests and vegetation and therefore do not have so much scope to increase CO2 absorption, but Spain has a huge chance arising from a risk, we have 50% of our territory at risk of desertification and therefore the opportunity to recover millions of hectares of irrigation if we are able to get enough water. Ladies and gentlemen, the empty Spain you are talking about is thirsty Spain, it is Spain to which no water comes. Millions of people who listen to us today must know that in Spain there is water for all, millions of people who listen to us today must know that water can be carried to every corner of Spain, millions of Spaniards who listen to us today must know that these gentlemen do not want to carry it. [[Applauds]] We have a duty to bring water to where it is needed, to bring water to all the Spaniards who need it, we have to recover a Spain that has been emptied and that has been forgotten, and for that, first of all, we have to rescue all concessions from dams, ladies and gentlemen, and, secondly, we can use 10 000 cubic hectares of river water - we have 55 000 embalmed water in Spain - to create 2.5 million hectares of irrigation, a real sink of CO2 that will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. Because we are now, for example, pouring more than twice as much water into the Atlantic as we are bound by the Treaty of Albufeira with Portugal. But, in addition to the climate, do you imagine the economic and social effect that a measure of this nature would have on empty Spain? We have an example in Spain - I say to the unbelievers - you can see the impact that the Tagus-Segura transfer had on Murcia's population and gross domestic product. A transfer that is insufficient as long as not all the basins are connected and the water reaches all the provinces, also to those that give water, because, I insist, there is plenty of water for all the provinces of Spain. Murcia has received 300,000 jobs with water in 25 years, and has stopped a process of desertification that radical ecologicalism said was irreversible. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's try to do the same all over Spain. Our nation can be Europe's ecological and economic miracle. [[Applauds]] Do you know how many jobs each hectare of irrigation creates? Be careful, between two and three. We are talking about more than five million jobs, which we are not going to create - we are not like you who promise to create jobs - and what we are going to do is not bother, it is easy, which is what it is about. Five million jobs that would increase gross domestic product and repopulate provinces that are at risk of abandonment at this time. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not Madrid and those who have been born and lived, many of us, in any people of our geography have the same rights as the inhabitants of the big capitals. How can we afford it? Well, I think it's relatively simple. All these millions of the green agenda can't serve as NGOs of paranoids who believe that coronavirus and fires are the way Pachamama has to take revenge for man's presence on earth. [[Laughter and applause]] They can't be used to pay for gender nonsense and mass immigration. You who do not want to water with water, want to water with workers' money a new deindustrialisation. You want workers to pay with their taxes the destruction of their jobs, and we, on the contrary, say that those taxes, that those climate funds must be used to repopulate Spain. [[Applauds]] To finally carry out the interconnection of all the basins, to flood water to thirsty Spain and to create a large sink of CO2 to ultimately enrich millions of Spaniards. His proposal: more money for ideological sectarianisms and to maintain the capitalism of friends. The government proposal that we are presenting today is a green, clean, prosperous Spain that is able to set up an industry compatible with the care of the environment. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we must reunify the market by ending autonomous regulatory hell. Business and talent must be relocated through tax incentives. And you have to stop buying the products that slavers make. Spain needs to be reindustrialized in order to own our present and our future. The tax burden must be reduced so that the Spaniards can form a family, have children, have access to housing, and that all this is not the privilege of the rich. [[Applauds]] We must water emptied Spain, ladies and gentlemen, we must water emptied Spain because emptied Spain is thirsty Spain, and we must do so by urgently confronting the interconnection of all the basins. Political spending must be drastically reduced. Italy has shown the way by eliminating a third of its Members. We have seventeen autonomous chambers left, and the Members who say they do not represent national sovereignty could also save us. [[Applauds]] And we have to do this because we have to save pensions and we will have to choose sooner or later between paying pensions or paying autonomy, between the welfare state of ordinary people and the welfare state of political parties. [[Applauds]] We will have to choose between what legitimately corresponds to our elders or continue with the autonomous waste. You've already chosen. The relationship between the State and the major Spanish multinationals must be redefined, under the principle of mutual loyalty. Large companies must understand that the concept of a nation is essential to then call for State support for their international projects. The labour market needs to be reformed and the needs of SMEs and self-employed people placed at the centre. In short, we must rebuild the national economy and we must do so before you ruin the last Spanish. [[Applauds]] And for this we must abandon Chinese capitalism, that is, that of the Communist Party, and also the so-called moralist capitalism, which you so much like, because no longer only the Government is trying to impose its morale on us, but now the global elites - from their power in the media, in the entertainment industry, in universities and in megacorporations - pursue that same goal and teach us one day after another about what they think is right and wrong, about how we should live. Ladies and gentlemen, life has always been easier for the rich than for the poor, it has always been easier for the elites than for the others, but in these times, in which we face the greatest concentration of power in history, we also have to endure that some privileged people teach us lessons about supremacist feminism, religious ecology, gender nonsense or any other of their obsessions, which are none of them among the concerns of the Spanish and the Spanish workers of the 21st century. [[Applauds]] But you only look at the past and look at the worst way you can look at it, you do it with hatred and grudge and with the dirty intention of confronting the Spaniards and taking political advantage of the tragedies that were already in history. With you we have the certainty of a disastrous future, but the past is uncertain because, like any totalitarian government, you rewrite it at your will, with such contempt for the truth that only fools can think that it will not have serious consequences. They not only rewrite it in Stalinist ways, speaking permanently of good and bad, but above them they throw at the monuments with an iconoclast fury that in our time is only comparable to that of the Isis or the Taliban, which are probably to be the only international allies that would support them in their desire to overthrow the highest cross in the world, as they knocked down the Bamiyan Buddhas. [[Applauds]] These are his fellow fanatics who are sowing in Spain. Don't you realize that there are sacred issues above parties and parties? In our civilization and in almost all civilizations that can be called this, that are not settled in barbarism, the rest of the dead is respected, the graves are respected and the burials are respected, and those who do not become barbarians and savages. The only thing that should be done, when there are signs of mass graves and family members so desire - whatever side they are - is to exhume them with all military honors and dignify them with dignity, and in that we would all agree. [[Applauds]] Stop desecrating graves against the will of families, because you already have enough plagues to tempt fate by unearthing hatreds. Look, a civil war is a failure of an entire generation of political leaders, we do not make the same mistake, I insist, it is a failure of an entire generation of political leaders. That doesn't mean that everyone had the same guilt - everyone will do their reading of history, if you don't take away his freedom - but it does mean that that time is not the best time to find references of unity and agreement, which is what we in Spain would need. But it is that you also choose those who failed twice, choose those who provoked the war and also lost it, and I must tell you that you must overcome the historical trauma of your acronyms. And I say of their acronyms, I don't say of their grandparents, because their grandparents, our grandparents, the grandparents of all starred in reconciliation - which we cannot betray - perhaps because they knew well the horrors of war, which we have not known, and which of course have not known the spoiled little girls who imagine themselves as heroic militiamen watching television series. [[Applauds]] I promise you that I would like you not to make us talk about this, and I know that it bothers you to talk about it, about your historical traumas, that I have to tell you that you are not interested and, of course, do not take advantage of most of the Spaniards, as it would not benefit the future that now exists, for example, a party that declared itself Francoist, because it is something of the last century. [[Rumors]] Mumble yourselves, but I think you should listen carefully. And as in fact, it does not benefit Spain, so is the Socialist Party, which declares itself nostalgic of terrible times, because, ladies and gentlemen, you live in another century, you live in another millennium and you live in another world that is not the real world in which the current Spaniards are on the street. [[Applauds]] In the present and real world, in that world things are happening that affect the life, freedom, rights and duties of the Spaniards, and that is what we are talking about here. For your crazy historical theories you have already occupied universities and almost all film production. Here it is up to us to work for the future, here it is up to us to work for coexistence, not for the division you bring, and which you foolishly subscribe from the media that you control or coerce, because all this attack on basic freedoms - and it must be said also in this rostrum - would have been impossible without a television duopoly, created by the political duopoly, against all the laws of competition and against the general interests of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] It is absolutely urgent that we return freedom to the audiovisual market and that Spain should once again have the means of communication at the service of the Spaniards, not at the service of the powerful parties or of new religions that seek to impose themselves in all areas of our life, such as culture. By the way, a word that seems to belong to you exclusively; tell us what you presume... Recently a member of the bench who supports the government shared on a social network his stupefaction and his surprise at the sensitivity and talent of an American film director, and the deputy, as he expressed it, was surprised that the director in question was not a director progressing. Of course, that sounded amazing to you. I understood then that some of you have come to believe your own lies, your own intellectual aberrations about the good and the bad and about how we are others. It seems that they are convinced that those who do not think exactly as you cannot have talent, cannot have sensitivity and cannot have humanity. Because you have ended up dehumanizing the one who disagrees, you have ended up dehumanizing the one who thinks differently. [[Rumors]] We have heard such statements in this rostrum. You live in a childish world, in a world that is binary, that is unreal, that is red and blue. And I can understand - it disgusts me, but I can understand - those among you who do it by political calculation, by strategy, because so you can contaminate minds and remain in power as long as possible, but I truly pity those of you who have believed that only in your ideological trench, only in your party there is progress, there is talent and there is humanity. I really do feel sorry for you. [[Applauds]] That is the position of incomplete adults, unable to understand all the beauty that exists in life, beyond politics, parties and ideological structures. Let me tell you one thing, even if it's just to avoid future assaults, which I think they'll have anyway. You can't imagine the number of actors, directors, musicians, painters, in short, artists coming to us to tell us in private things they couldn't say in public without you and the subsidized militiamen throwing themselves like hyenas at ruining their careers and their lives. [[Applauds]] Because you boycott any talent that is meant against your impositions. They remind me of another film, The Law of Silence, which portrays well how the mafias impose themselves with violence and coercion. We must remove from any party in this House the unique thought that has been imposed on the basis of censorship and subsidisation in the world of culture. We must also denounce the intellectual mafia who pretends to say who can write, who can sing, who can act or make a film in Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, in your totalitarian desire to control all the plots of the existence of the Spaniards, you have an obstacle, which is the family; that bastion which limits the power of politicians, of any politician over the life of people, because the family, gentlemen - and all of you have one -, along with the homeland, is one of the only two realities, of the only two institutions that precede the state and that you, however hard you try, will not succeed in robbing the Spaniards, even though some MPs from certain parties said that we had to live in tribes, because the children were not of the parents, but of the tribes. [[Applauds]] The homeland and the family is something that will never be able to take away the Spaniards, it is something that will never be able to take away from man any government that is on earth. They will not, even though they cry out against what they call patriarchy, and caricaturize the beauty of family traditions in their 8-M marches, already known as death marches, because in the face of their sectarianism and division, we say it is common sense to protect the family, because it is in the family where life begins, where we spend the first years of our existence, where the weakest is protected with more love and intensity, and where we learn better than in any university and even better than in any church to forgive, to look to the future and to bring out the best of each and every one of us. [[Applauds]] And besides the family, there is another obstacle for those who intend to isolate the individual and leave him at the mercy of the powerful, and it is the homeland. And that is why they also want to destroy and divide it, and for this reason they have been deepening the divisive virus of the state of autonomy for years; autonomy that has always been expensive, but that is now ruinous; autonomy that has always been inefficient, but that now, in this inefficiency and in this context, is criminal. This theme park of administrative law in which we have converted Spain with autonomy has other negative consequences. Spain has eighteen health systems, one for each autonomous community, and one for the cities of Ceuta and Melilla. Ladies and gentlemen, we have eighteen vaccination plans, eighteen specialized primary care systems, eighteen pharmaceutical management systems, eighteen health quality systems, eighteen systems for calculating waiting lists, and so on in all the competences that autonomy has. If it weren't for the gravity of the situation, it would be funny and ridiculous. It is already a cry even in Europe that the Spanish territorial model has failed, in that Europe which you always look back on to see what we are told to do. Even in one of the newspapers in France, which you often read, you said last week: territorial decentralization has failed in Spain. The autonomous disaster also affects education and freedom in education. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the worst school failure figures in Europe. There are autonomous communities where Spanish is almost no longer taught; a language that speaks 540 million people, and in some places in Spain is banned in schools and persecuted on the labels of shops. Our universities suffer from chronic decay. It is not acceptable that one of the best things that can happen to a young Spaniard today is to go abroad to study. Do you know what any sensible government should do? Retrieve education skills, strengthen educational inspection, demand an equal national curriculum for all Spanish students, and get rid of nonsense, politics, localism and gender. [[Applauds]] But not only have autonomy failed, ladies and gentlemen, on essential issues such as health, education or the economy, we are faced with a real monster of spending and waste; spending and waste against Spain and against its unity. Autonomies have been used as a ram against the coexistence and unity of our homeland, because autonomies, moreover, far from protecting the rich diversity of the regions, have instituted seventeen micro-centralisms. I suffer it like a lavish. The Basque Government makes a clean slate and applies the same policies to Álava as to Guipúzcoa, and Álava is different than Guipúzcoa and Tarragona is different than Lérida. But the autonomy, with the excuse of decentralization, has been to establish seventeen regional centralisms that stifle the rich diversity of our provinces and regions. [[Applauds]] We are even the only country in the world that funds regional embassies to defame and harm the interests of the nation, as has happened during the separatist coup d'état in Catalonia. That is why we will continue to remind your ladies and gentlemen that in order to defend the unity of Spain, the first thing we have to do is to ban the parties that seek precisely the destruction of national unity, of the Constitution, of coexistence, of the rule of law and of the division of powers, which is what you are about to do with total and totalitarian power in your respective regions. [[Applauds]] That's plain common sense, ladies and gentlemen, and I have to tell you something else. Only Spain, only a united Spain is the guarantor of our profound and magnificent diversity, because by pure logic only in unity can diversity. In their secession we already know what we would have, we have seen what they have done only with autonomy; with separatism they would be able to do anything. That diversity is capable of complementing and carrying out the greatest deeds to form one of the most relevant peoples in universal history, and which has left a mark on the orb of which we can be deeply proud. And in the face of the political apparatuses of division, corruption and waste, which are autonomy, VOX wants to recover the greatness of the provinces, the best formula for decentralization, with its nuances, with its differences, with its needs that are not the same as those of the big capitals, and also with its dazzling history, because there is no Spanish province that has not dazzled the world with the feats of some of its children. Ladies and gentlemen, I have given up trying to find out about that anti-Spanishism that suppresses the pores of a part of the left and the renegade. The reality is that the vast majority of Spaniards are proud of our history, we love our culture, we have loyalty and respect for the institutions, we are excited to see our flag wave and we are excited to hear our national anthem and, in addition, we feel deep respect for his majesty the king. That, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to say here, is much more valued by the Spaniards than each and every one of the Members who sit in this House today. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is a majority of Spaniards who, with all their strength, disagree with the progress of consensus that has despised our nation and our history, and who claim that the only possible future for Spain is to be a submissive nation or a divided nation. That is why even ETA, with all its bloody reality, is here at the feast of consensus, because they know that on that path Spain is weakened and never, killing or not killing, have had another goal. And that is why they are now joining the consensus of the popular front, the same as the coups in Catalonia or any other renegade association that may be in any region of our homeland. To them, of course, I do not ask for the vote today. I have already said that I do not even consider them to be legitimate Members in this House, because they have come to it for the sole purpose of ruining Spain, although, if they were consistent with what they repeat so much, that VOX is a separatist factory, perhaps today they could vote for this candidate. If you're convinced of your lies, try, see if you're lucky. You are sure that you do not - do well - but you will not do so because you lie, as you lie in everything, but to the rest of the Chamber I do ask your support. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have offered to lead this motion because we thought it was their responsibility as the main opposition party, but they did not want to. I have to say that every day the political distance that separates us is even greater, and yet we have given them the government of three autonomys to avoid social-communist governments and to rid Andalusia of four decades of socialist corruption. [[Applauds]] Now it's my turn to ask you to vote. In his hands he is demonstrating that among all, despite the huge differences we have, an alternative must be built to this disaster that we face. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I will ask you too. [[Laughter]] I knew they were going to laugh, but I'm going to ask you seriously. I am sure that many share the diagnosis that several of their former leaders have made about this Government. I am not going to say the diagnosis that I have made in this rostrum, which I understand is of much greater hardness, but you share the diagnosis about this government that many of your former leaders, those whom they admired so much, have made. That's right, they share it in private, and I have to tell them that that's not going to help them when the Spaniards ask for their accounts. They now have the opportunity to demarcate the ruin and death that this Government has brought. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting this motion of censure because we have an obligation in conscience: to do everything in our power to put an end to this government, which has come to lie illegitimately to the Spaniards, which has criminally abandoned millions of them in the middle of this epidemic, and which has betrayed the general interests of Spain by negotiating with all its enemies. We believe that today each of us is portrayed for posterity. Everyone has to ask a question. Perhaps now, involved in frantic political activity, we are not able to see where this government leads us, but in the future they will have to ask themselves: what I did to avoid the moral and economic ruin that Sanchez and Churches have brought, what I did at this critical moment in our history. We probably ask that question in the future, and we also have to answer it to our children. If you do not ask him now, have no doubt that your compatriots - our compatriots - will ask him very soon. There is no doubt that all those who support this government today will have to respond to the Spanish. I'm just finishing up. This motion... [[Rumors]] If you want, I'll go on. I won't do it like Mr. Iglesias' beloved leaders, who talked for hours, but I could go on for a while. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I told you that this motion, despite the fact that some of you have become so nervous, we have not presented it by tacticism, by profit of a day or by the advantages of the moment, all of you and your sorcerer's apprentices know well, Mr Sánchez. For us, it's not all about playing demoscopy bingo. And it is not just a question of censuring the catastrophic management of the coronavirus, but rather of rejecting in its entirety the macabre political and social project that you have launched, because by its very nature and origin this project is suicidal for Spain, Mr Sánchez, whatever the outcome of the epidemic we suffer. The history of Spain unequivocally confirms that all the political projects that are rooted in the rupture have always led to a failure of our people, to a tragedy, without exception. For this reason, the history of Spain itself already blames you, because all those who try to reinvent the history and nature of the Spanish nation since division have failed, fail and will always fail. Mr Sánchez, your failure is certain and certainly yours in particular is indifferent to me. I have not become fond of him, nor do I hate him, as you often say, and his failure is indifferent to me, but the suicide and tragedy of all the Spaniards to whom they lead us, no. We have tabled this motion because we believe that in life we must act motivated by something that I believe many of you and your tahurs do not know: principles. Since it is vain to talk to you about principles at the moment when I conclude, let us talk about an end, about the end of this evil dream which is your Presidency and which is getting closer every day. [[Applauds]] Perhaps today he will go without paying the bill, but the Spaniards will not forget or forgive his management of this crisis, his sectarianism, or his willingness to betray the most sacred to scratch a few more days in power. You, Mr Sánchez, will pass and occupy the corner of shame in the encyclopedias; you will occupy the dubious podium of those who betrayed Spain by pacting with the separatists. You will pass and you will come to regret - and this I am sorry for you - the day on which you were invested president. You, Mr Sánchez, will pass and take with you all this unworthy cohort of applause from your Council of Ministers, leaving behind only a trace of incompetence, ruin and disunity. You will pass, yes, Mr Sánchez, and the only favor you will do us is to take with you the lords of Galapagar, Paul and Irene, who will already be able to dedicate themselves to what they have always wanted, which is to be famous. [[Applauds]] You can be sure, you'll pass. And you can also be sure that Spain will resist, Spain will prevail, Spain will come forward, Spain will recover, because Spain is a historical reality superior and better to the infamous situation of this Parliament. When we park their harmful ideologies, their absurd ideological obsessions and the self-hate that emerges in this House, Spain will look out again and I can assure you that from the outside they will look back at Spain. Our children's future demands it and our history demands it. You, Mr. Sanchez, will be here very soon. It may not be today, but it will be tomorrow, because the future belongs to that vast majority of Spaniards who want to live together, in peace and freedom. To them we all owe, to them we have a duty to return the union, the freedom, the word and the vote. Long live the king! Long live Spain! [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Alive!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u5	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have a ten-minute recess. Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. [[Mr Santiago Romero asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr. Santiago Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u6	Simply, in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the House and in the light of personal allusions, I wanted to state, first of all, that it is an honour to have participated in a peace process that has earned a Nobel Peace Prize. And secondly, in order to prove the falsehoods spilled, I would like to know whether the 2019 DEA report could be incorporated into the record. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u7	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. I now call on the President of the Government, on behalf of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Abascal, first of all, I would like to make a statement of intent. As much as it provokes, and see that during these long hours of motion of censure you and your spokesman have tried, we will not enter into any of your provocations throughout the motion of censure. [[Applauds]] Article 113 of our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, sets out in a meridian way the procedure for a motion of censure. It is a procedure by which an alternative parliamentary majority is allowed to vote an alternative executive to the current one, once heard and discussed the candidate's governance program. I would like to underline this fact at the beginning of this debate. Our Magna Charter defines the motion of censure as a legitimate and constitutional instrument - although here the instrument of the motion of censure has been called into question in some other debates - making our motion of censure above all and above all a constructive motion, where the candidate has to do what he has to do is to set out the main lines of his alternative government and ask for the majority confidence of the House. Therefore - I repeat - the motion of censure is a constitutional procedure, it is a legitimate procedure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. candidate, the Government that I have the honour to lead faces this debate with the deep respect that this House represents and the great Spanish democracy that you all represent. However, I have to tell you, Mr. candidate, that so far this motion of censure is anything but constructive. It seems to me that Mr Abascal has not come here thinking of gaining the confidence of the House, the trust of his lords. If you recall, this motion of censure was announced in July, presented in September and filed in October. If you remember too, this is a motion where the candidate himself expressed no intention of defending it. They said they were going to look for other candidates, that this motion of censure was going to lead a person other than VOX, an independent. That was what they said and walked for weeks and weeks looking for a candidate, without fortune, given the result. Consequently, because of the absence of volunteers, the advertiser himself, Mr Abascal, had to be forced to defend the motion of censure. And look, despite the time since the beginning of the motion, after hearing his speech, the only thing we have heard does not go beyond insult and disqualification. There has been no proposal in your speech, Mr Abascal. Well, there's been a proposal: how do your ladies dressed in this House have to come to this House? Then you will say that VOX is not fascism, which is stylism. [[Laughter]] That's the only thing he's been heard saying this morning. [[Applauds]] Mr Abascal feels that this House elected with the free and democratic vote of the citizens represents a Spain that his party and he himself hates and denies - it has become quite clear in his speech - a different Spain, a Spain of equal and free men and women; a plural, democratic, tolerant, solidarity and Europeanist Spain. Mr. candidate, you do not come here today, at all, for the purpose of obtaining the confidence of the House - indeed, you know that you have no chance of obtaining the majority confidence of the House - and furthermore, because of the bronze tone used and the disturbingness of the contents exposed, it does not seem that you, Mr. candidate, are very interested in obtaining the majority confidence of the House. So all of us who have been listening for hours and hours to the various speakers of the far right could ask ourselves the following question: if this initiative does not intend to opt to replace the current government by another government led by you, Mr Abascal, what do we do here? What is the meaning of this motion of censure? Some say that it is actually directed against the People's Party and Mr. Married, a sort of hostile OPA to obtain more votes and to occupy the space of the right. Maybe, I don't know. Others say that the reason for this motion of censure is much more prosaic, it is less sophisticated, since there are those who think - and perhaps rightly so - that this constitutional process to turn Parliament into a great audience is actually its ultimate end, where your ladies and gentlemen are appearing and where you, Mr. candidate, are the heroic protagonist. Anyway, whatever the reasons, the truth is that we have witnessed a clear display of propaganda aimed at things that I believe do not benefit the nation you claim to be defending; a display of propaganda aimed at sowing discord, hatred among Spaniards, aimed at confrontation between their public representatives and also focused on distracting the energies that we should all be turning together precisely on the real problems and challenges of our country. The other Marx said - if you remember - that politics is the art of inventing problems, making false diagnoses and then applying the wrong remedies. Groucho, Mr. candidate, defined you and your co-religionaries without knowing them. You are becoming, Mr Abascal, on your own merits a virtuoso of that kind of understanding of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, I think it is very important for all of us here, for the vast majority of public representatives, to focus the debate because the problems facing our nation and the challenges facing our country and also Europe are rarely so evident. First of all, there is no doubt about each and every one of you - it has been said here on many occasions, not in this debate but in many others - after the scourge of a pandemic that has so far infected forty million human beings in the world and that has reaped the lives of more than one million people in the world, among them thousands and thousands of compatriots, that the Government of Spain will always remember, in its heart, in its memory, as well as will guide the public action of the decisions that we take in the Council of Ministers, to the victims of COVID. Along with this global pandemic and this health emergency, it is clear that other emergencies, such as economic and social emergencies, have resulted in the abrupt fall - as has been said here - of levels of economic activity, not only in Spain but also in Europe and the world. In addition, there was a huge reaction from the various governments of the European Union, and also from the European Union, which we have mobilised thousands and billions of euros to protect businesses, to protect jobs, to protect the most vulnerable and to enhance health care. The economic forecasts indicate, indeed, a strong recovery in the coming years, let us hope that with the remedy to this pandemic. What is true, however, and what is clear, is that we must continue with an expansionary and supportive economic policy until the economic recovery in our country and at the international level is definitively strengthened. Thirdly, together with the health emergency, the economic emergency and the social emergency, I believe that we can all agree that this pandemic has accelerated profound changes that were already taking place in our societies before even the COVID. Climate change, the scientific evidence of which is palmarial - however much the world's far-right and, logically, the Spanish far-right is denied - for which, as we have said many times, there is no vaccine but which can be stopped by an early action that also leads to the generation of new businesses, new jobs, a new social welfare and a necessary - I would say essential - intergenerational solidarity for those generations that have not yet been born. And together with that ecological transition, we need a digital transition that we must definitively incorporate into our educational system, the training of our workers and our students, the company and, ultimately, all areas of social activity; a digitization that must be a source of progress and for it to be a source of progress must have an inclusive and non-exclusive look. Both the digital and the ecological transitions, in the opinion of this government - and I believe also of the parliamentary majority in this House - must be the means of modernising our economy, along with education, science, innovation, research, gender equality and also cohesion; social cohesion and territorial cohesion. The fourth challenge facing our country is that this pandemic has demonstrated the need to speed up the process of European integration and now I have to say, Mr. candidate, that the truth is that I do not see that Europe is like either China or Hitler, as you have said in your speech. I believe that, precisely, that new homeland that we have in common, the European Union, we must strengthen it, we must strengthen it over the coming years and we must do so not only on the economic front, as we did last July with the agreement of the Recovery Fund, but also on the social pillar and, without a doubt, on the common foreign and security policy. Because what is evident in this world of giants, with whom we are competing, in Asia or also in the United States, on the American continent, is that only if we are united will we have the true dimension to assert not only our interests, but our principles and our ideals. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, federalisation, which is a well-known word for the ultra-right, but which is really applauded throughout Europe, because it means union in diversity, I think it has had a decisive milestone with the agreement last July in which - let us admit it - our country has played a relevant role. Fifthly, the pandemic reminds us of something very important and it is that we have to rely on a strong, solid welfare state. The applause to the health professionals we have experienced especially during the long weeks of confinement is a living proof of the value that Spanish society gives to free and universal public health. Just as it demands the worthy attention of our elders and a public system with decent and sustainable pensions for our elders. A Spanish society that also passionately claims a public education that has to be fair and of quality or that proudly observes the work of scientists, Spanish scientists who strive to find the vaccine and the remedy for this and other diseases. A society, in short, that was determined to resist and then move forward without leaving anyone behind. Sixthly, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has put to the test - and I believe that we can all agree on this - our institutional architecture, our autonomous state, which has indeed been denounced by the candidate. In the view of the Government, it is a key piece of our constitutional order, I would say that the very heart of the constitutional pact of 78 is Title VIII of our Constitution, the autonomous state. This government will defend, Mr. candidate, as it has defended throughout its history, and we have done so especially during this pandemic, the autonomous state. [[Applauds]] We have done so by betting on co-governance, transferring resources to address the pandemic by autonomous governments on all fronts, health, economic and social; enhancing cooperation mechanisms at all levels; here are the inter-territorial councils that every week celebrates the Minister of Health and the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service or the Conference of Presidents at the forefront that we have promoted throughout this mandate. And I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge something very important and it is the effort of the majority of autonomous governments, regardless of their political colour, to defend public health and people's lives. [[Applauds]] Seventhly, the pandemic makes it much more urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to resolve other crises that weaken us as a country. The autonomous State, in the view of the Government, must be improved, improved precisely in order to be able to fit into a much more reliable way the territorial diversity, our rich territorial diversity in our country, and this must contribute to overcoming crises which - in the opinion of the Government, sterilely - have focused national public debate over the past few years. For example, the Catalan crisis, to which you have referred, Mr. candidate. I have said this on many occasions, we must meet again at that point where we stop listening, close wounds and build a shared future. I find this idea more patriotic than any other idea you have put on the table, Mr. candidate. I do not think of any nobler or more patriotic task than giving our children a country in agreement, and the Government will work precisely to achieve it in the coming years. [[Applauds]] Finally, we will have to address pending transformations that resolve persistent and unacceptable scourges, to which you have not referred in your intervention, such as child poverty. He referred, yes, for example, to unemployment, youth unemployment. It has not referred to long-term unemployment, which is one of the great scourges of our country. The gender inequality and its most repulsive manifestation, which is gender violence - to which I will then refer, in response to your gross accusations - and the relentless struggle against any form of discrimination and especially the most odious, Your Honor, such as xenophobia or homophobia. Progress in new rights, in new freedoms that make it possible for anyone not only to have a dignified life, but also to have a decent death. Ladies and gentlemen, the tasks ahead are enormously important. We are at the door of a new major modernisation, as I have mentioned in some other speeches. I think we can achieve this, that Spain can, that we have the necessary resources, with a country full of talent, with a country full of solidarity and with a country full of what we need to move forward, which is energy and dynamism. A country which, Mr. candidate, always, always, whenever you have had to choose has chosen future, never past, which is what you have represented here today in this rostrum. [[Mr. Abascal makes gestures with his hands pointing to the president of the government.]] But it is true that in order to meet those challenges we need unity, unity of all, of social actors, of civil groups, also of the political parties that are represented here, and that unity - which is what we need as a country to be able to face the challenges that we have ahead and to which I have previously referred - is what you look forward to torpedoing, what you look forward to breaking with this motion of censure. But I'll tell you something, Mr. Abascal, Mr. Candidate, you're not going to make it. As for the candidate and the interests he and his party represent, let us not forget one thing, ladies and gentlemen, which goes beyond the radar of the media, Abascal's party is the party that receives the most private donations from the entire political system. Well, the candidate and the interests behind you hate the meaning of words for which this democracy has fought for decades, decades and decades, words that unite, ladies and gentlemen, words full of emotion and also full of an enormous common sense of reason, words like democracy, as pluralism, as diversity, as equality, as tolerance, as solidarity, as peace. That is why you want to divide us, Mr. candidate, provoke us, confront us. This is, and not another, Mr. candidate, the ultimate reason for your motion of censure. [[Applauds]] But, as I said before, he has mismeasured his forces, he has again underestimated the strength of democracy. The candidate, logically, can do what he has done this morning, take advantage of the rules of democracy; he believes that he can use Parliament as a great television set for its sake and has not noticed that he has mismeasured his forces, he has not taken into account, as I have said before, the strength of democracy, he has not taken into account that in this House, Your Honor, all real Spain, real Spain, Mr Abascal, is represented, as it is, not as you would like it to be, that it is quite different. We can show with the rejection of this motion of censure that the majority of Spanish society rejects the path you have offered throughout your intervention, which is the path of hatred, and thus choose the path of union and shared work in the face of the challenges ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not talked about any of the real problems during your speech. For you the representatives of the people are occupied - you have said it from this rostrum - democracy is tyranny, dictatorship is freedom, Europe is China or, worse, Hitler, that is, reality goes on the one hand, Your Honor, and you go on the other. This is the synthesis of your speech, Mr. candidate. In his words, we are faced with the greatest degradation of national life, judges, sovereignty and the king. It is no word - they warn - the government is illegitimate, the government is criminal, the men are no longer men, because they are subjected to women, the barbarians invade us, the nation is about to dismember and, finally, ladies and gentlemen, a Chinese virus. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, candidate, your first sentence in this morning's speech: the worst government in the last eighty years. The date is not randomly chosen, ladies and gentlemen, this brings us nothing more and nothing less than the year 1940. Therefore, a little context and let us also place the debate on those dates. For the candidate for the presidency of the Spanish Government in 2020, the current, criminal and dictatorial government, is much worse than all, absolutely all, the governments of dictator Francisco Franco; worse than the government that bowed to Hitler; worse than the government that recruited thousands of Spanish youths to fight under the flag of the wide cross; worse than the government that chased, imprisoned and executed thousands of Spaniards after the end of the Civil War; worse than the dictator who struck a legitimate government with a coup coup of State; worse than the government that originated the largest number of disappeared in history - I would like to remind you, Mr. Abascal, that, unfortunately, our government was the second country, after Cambodia, with more disappeared in the world - worse than the dictator that gave a coup coup d' coup d'ét coup d'état a legitimate government; worse than the government that originated the largest number of disappeared in history - I would like to remind you, Mr. Abascal, Mr. Abascal, that our Government, which proscribed the freedom of expression of our Government, its government, the freedom of expression of expression, the freedom of its State and its freedom of the freedom of the press, the freedom of its freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the freedom of the press, the country, the less governments, the worse than other governments, the worse than the worse than the less governments of Spain, the worse than the worse than Spain, the worse than the worse than the worse than Spain, the worse than the worse than Spain, the worse than the worse than the worse than the worse than the worse than Spain, the worse than the worse than the worse than the worse than Spain, the worse than the worse than the worse than the worse than Spain, the worse than the worse than the worse than the worse than Spain, the worse than the worse than the worse than the worse than Spain, the worse than the worse than the worse than the worse than the better than the worse than the better than Spanish, the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than the better than Spanish, the better than Spanish, the better than the better than the better than the better than Ladies and gentlemen, these are expressions that have been heard here from this rostrum, which are heard on a daily basis, and which are not heard on marginal pasquins, but on radios and televisions with wide social monitoring. And these are expressions that are uttered by the far right and that, unfortunately, are welcomed some of them with worrisomeness when not pulled from the benches of the traditional right. Well, that is the cloud of words, rather the storm of words, of the far right that we have heard again today in your motion of censure, Mr. candidate: criminals, coups, feminazis, invasion, barbarians and also a Chinese virus. And now, if you think so, we can compare them to the cloud of words with which the Spanish really define their problems, the real ones, Mr. candidate: pandemic, employment, health, business, political crisis, territorial tension, poverty, uncertainty. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Candidate? That for those problems, which are real and which affect millions and millions of Spaniards and Spaniards you have no solution, neither you nor those who support you from the traditional right. For these problems, all that can be offered to Spanish society is nothing more than a hoax, a couple of insults and nothing more, which is what we have heard in their interventions. Economic development and digital transition, climate change, social cohesion, employment and health are not on the agenda of your problems, Mr. candidate, nor gender equality, let alone the pandemic. If you have a program to stop, for example, feminist oppression that only you warn. It also has a program to plant in front of the ecologists and their supposed dictatorship. It also has a programme to defend Spain, which is to close all the media that displease it, and another programme to straighten out Spanish democracy, which is to illegalize all those political parties that bother it, and yet another to solve the autonomic misadjustments, which is to end the autonomy at root and return to the centralist state of the Franco dictatorship eighty years ago. But to combat job insecurity, to create quality jobs, for that you have no solution. That's right, ending citizen insecurity in one of the safest countries in the world, for you that's a key priority. Mr. candidate, you do not have good solutions to the real problems of the Spaniards, but you also have fatal solutions to what are neither problems that the Spaniards suffer. Look, one problem is the pandemic. And what have we done to all the governments of Europe? We have mobilized all of our constitutional instruments, all of our economic and social tools to deal with a pandemic like the one that has not lived for a hundred years. We mobilized against the first wave with exceptional measures as it was, for example, to decree the state of alarm, recognized in our Constitution, which allowed to keep the virus at bay and bend the curve. We are also trying to stop the second wave by combining hygienic measures of prevention, tracing, case monitoring, step-by-step measures of social distancing and mobility restriction. The question is, what would you have done, Mr. Candidate? Or, rather, what did they do? Because you have to remember what you did during those weeks of the state of alarm. When the pandemic broke out with all its virulence, the Government declared the state of alarm and launched, as you know, a battery of urgent measures to deal with the pandemic in all areas: health, economic and social. You say you claimed the state of alarm statement, but it should be remembered that on April 9, when we still had more than 4700 compatriots admitted by COVID in the ICUs of our country's hospitals, occupying more than 50% of the available beds, you voted against the extension of the state of alarm. [[Applauds]] Moreover, as you said, they appealed to the Constitutional Court. It also took more than fifteen days for you to present what you described in great calamity as urgent measures to safeguard the health and economy of the Spaniards. To be urgent, the truth is that they took their time. But if you look at them, you see that the majority, in the end, are not original because it was actually a short and sticky of many of the measures that the Spanish Government has already put in place: the extension of deadlines to companies for the payment of taxes, the suspension of social security quotas, the reorientation of the industry to manufacture sanitary equipment, the deployment of the Armed Forces to, for example, disinfection of residences, essential sanitary facilities and public services, and the installation of field hospitals. But you proposed - Mr. candidate, remember - that the state - and it has said it again here today - took over the payroll of all the workers in Spain and the income of the self-employed for three months. I am not going to go into the quantification of this measure because it disqualifies itself. The Government, on the other hand, did do other things, Mr Abascal. It put in place all the mechanisms; mechanisms, by the way, more sustainable, more realistic, and most importantly, mechanisms with a temporal perspective well beyond the three months to which you refer. [[Applauds]] For example, ERTE by force majeure, special benefits for self-employed workers. The ERTEs allowed - and I think it is important to stress this again - nearly 3,400,000 jobs to be sustained at the worst time in the pandemic. They have relieved, for example, more than half a million companies in our country. About one and a half million self-employed workers have benefited from the cessation benefit; measures, by the way, which you have never adopted in this Parliament, as on so many other occasions, because you only supported two of the twenty-one royal decree-laws with urgent measures to deal with the pandemic. You also came to pose the dismissal of any autonomous authority that attacked the principle of national solidarity by making it difficult to respond to the pandemic. Man, we will never demand such a responsibility from all the autonomous governments, but you could be consistent, Your Honor, and you could have demanded that responsibility from all those governments that you hold in the regional assemblies, for example, the Government of the Madrid Community. [[Applauds]] The difference between the traditional right and the ultra-right is that this government and the majority, fortunately, of this House, what has done has been to opt for governance, for collaboration and cooperation, and not for confrontation, as you are doing from the beginning of the pandemic. This is demonstrated by the sixteen conferences of presidents, seventeen which we will hold next Monday with the presence of the President of the European Commission; 159 sectoral meetings to reach consensus, to take joint action with the autonomous communities. This is a record, 159 out of the last ten years. In short, this is a very different form from yours, Mr. candidate, to deal with the pandemic and understand the spirit of agreement emanating from our Constitution. I think it is important to re-emphasize this, but we also increase the resources of the autonomous communities to deal with the pandemic. We launched a COVID Fund, a non-reimbursable fund of €16 billion that has enabled, for example, to improve the financing of public health and public education of each and every Autonomous Community; also €8 billion of the update of deliveries to the Autonomous Communities; €32 billion of the Feder Funds 2014-2020 linked to health expenditure and €14 billion more liquidity for the Autonomous Communities. Moreover yesterday, fortunately, this House allowed the suspension of the tax rules, precisely so that the municipalities and the communities can turn back resources to deal, to the extent of their competences, with the effects of both the health and the economic and social emergency. You did not vote in favour, nor did the People's Party vote in favour of a fundamental measure to address this pandemic. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you can discuss a lot of things, but the figures are there. You refer to the level of public indebtedness that our country has, the public deficit that we are going to incur, logically, Your Honor, as all Western economies are going to incur. What would be your alternative? I haven't done anything at all? Have you not indebted our country or incurred a public deficit precisely to protect workers, businesses, self-employed workers and those to whom you are saying that this government is abandoning? We have protected the agri-food sector, to which you refer, by means of subsidies for livestock farms; also by speeding up industrial credits; aid to the fruit and vegetable sectors; the sectoral plans for tourism; for motor vehicles; for transport, for an amount which is not negligible, Your Honor, EUR 11 500 million; the package of aid to the cultural sector, one of the most damaged sectors, unfortunately, as a result of the pandemic; the ICO endorsement lines which have mobilized - to be noted, Your Honor - EUR 103 billion in record time, in a matter of months, in credits through which we have benefited 98 % of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers, EUR 830 000. And throughout this process of impulse and social shield against the virus we have not only promoted co-governance, but we have also done so thanks to social dialogue. You, Your Honor, have referred to the trade unions, which were not to be subjected to criticism and contempt on your part, but I would like to pay tribute and tribute to the trade unions of this country for defending the rights of workers, democracy and freedom in our country. [[Applauds]] Thanks to the social dialogue we have reached five agreements which I believe are very reasonable, Mr. candidate. For example, three pacts, for the temporary employment regulation dossiers to be postponed until 31 January - this is the last of the agreements -, a pact for economic revival and the agreement, and also a law on distance work which I believe is not only pioneering, but necessary and urgent at a time when, as a result of the pandemic, there are many workers in the private sector and also in the public sector who have to be forced into distance work. Co-governance, social dialogue and Europe agreement. Mr. Candidate, I understand that you don't remember it because it's going very fast and you may possibly get lost, but you have raised things that you have even remembered here from the rostrum. You raised, for example, such Martian things as that of blaming the Director General of the World Health Organization for turning this body - and I quote textually - 'in a Chinese propaganda channel' and you even came to pose the exit of Spain from the World Health Organization, in the midst of the pandemic. That is to say, you forget in each and every one of your parliamentary initiatives, and also in a stubborn way - I would say - all the recommendations of the scientific community and international health agencies. In short, at a time when many sectors, as well as citizens, were having a bad time, you forgot, Mr. candidate, about Spain. They did not want to hold their shoulders at any time for their country - it is true that they did so with the complicity of the traditional right - and the best reflection of their attitude was that they also abandoned the work of the Parliamentary Commission for Reconstruction. [[Applauds]] They were not able to make their conclusions in the parliamentary committee. What you have done has been to disagree with the real problems of Spanish citizens. They expressed it in this very House in the debates of the state of alarm, with a very simple idea that we have heard again today in their defense of the motion of censure and that is that we have to combat the Chinese communist virus and, moreover, we have to do it freely - more or less you have come to say that - that is, by removing any restrictions - I understand - and by facilitating the spread of the contagions. And there you go, Mr. Candidate. In our case, the attitude has been quite different. On the economic and social front, what we have done has been to turn in support of credit and aid companies; in support of workers, the ERTE; in protection of the most unassisted, the minimum living income, which we have set in motion in record time and, in addition, managing a calamity as unprecedented as this pandemic, and measures to guarantee basic supplies and housing. What would you have done? We know little or nothing really if we take your contribution to this emergency seriously or even if we listen carefully to what your diatribes have been to explain this motion of censure, but there is one thing certain and it is that the best example of what you would have done is in the debate on minimum living income. You discredited him, as you just discredited him this morning, and even qualified him as a paguita. They said that the minimum living income was the paguita. I understand that a few hundred euros a month for a family in need for you is little compared to the generous stipend you received when you lived from the chiringuitos that precisely created you People's Party governments. [[Applauds]] Another real problem, Mr. candidate, is gender-based violence. I see you're not worried about gender-based violence. You are concerned about very timely, regrettable but very timely, statistically irrelevant cases of false allegations of gender-based violence. What is the solution put forward by the candidate for the Presidency of the Government in order to put an end to these complaints? No more or less to end the Law on Combating Gender Violence. Of course, you are, Mr. candidate, what you are going to do is to put an end to the very few false allegations, but you are also going to put an end to the overwhelming majority of genuine complaints about gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] Therefore, you do not have effective solutions to real problems, but at least we could say you have a bag that believes you are a good manager of public resources. Let's go over it. You have held several public positions in your long political career, always linked to the People's Party. For example, in 2013 the then President of the Community of Madrid, Mrs Aguirre, put him at the head of a foundation - probably very important within the organization chart of the Community of Madrid - the Foundation for Mecenazgo and the Social Patronage of the Community of Madrid, an organization - I believe - perfectly expendable, what you would call today a chiringuite. It was an unnecessary chiringuite - you said it yourself and I will not discuss it, you will know - but at least you could have tried to do something, Mr.Abascal, like get some sponsorship, some sponsorship, whatever it was. But what did you get during your term? Nothing, zero; not little, nothing. It had a budget of 183 600 euros and had an annual salary of 82 000 euros, half. I would like to remind you, by the way, that this salary of EUR 82 000 which you had was 10% higher than that of the President of the Government at the time, Mr Rajoy. What did you get? I repeat it to you again: nothing. Finally, do you think you can manage the state's revenue when you were not able to enter a euro, precisely, in that foundation? [[Applauds]] We see that it has no solutions and neither does it have management capacity. You will tell me that you have ideals, that you have great values. Well, let's see if you - and in particular you, Mr. Abascal - have ideals and values. First of all, I think it is quite clear, quite obvious that you do not have the value of gratitude. [[Rumors]] The value of gratitude to those who gave you shelter and gave you work for many years you do not have it. [[Laughter and applause]] You have no gratitude to your former comrades in the People's Party, but at least you will profess, Mr Abascal, a certain patriotic affection for the Spaniards. In my humble opinion, Mr Abascal, after listening to you for hours, I think neither. You hate Spain as it is. I repeat, you hate Spain as it is. What you call patriotism is exasperated nationalism. It is not interested in the freedom of citizens, it is concerned with the cultural homogeneity of society and the elimination of any differences. Mr. Abascal, listen to me well, a patriot doesn't have half of the compatriots as much as you do. [[Applauds]] A true patriot, Mr. candidate, cannot hate his compatriots. You do not understand Spain as the union of millions of people with a cultural diversity, with a political plurality that in my opinion - and fortunately, in the opinion of most Spaniards - is the wealth, the strength that our society has. For you Spain is a very limited number of Spaniards who accommodate your prejudices; yours, Mr Abascal, yours, Mr candidate. Notice, of the four languages of Spain that Gabriel Aresti spoke to you there are at least three or, rather, three and a half, because even all the Spanish who speak about freedom, justice, democracy, who magnified authors such as García Lorca, Miguel Hernández or Machado. [[Applauds]] You say you love Spain - you say - but you profess no love for anything that has made us great as a nation during our history, Mr. candidate. You love a certain Spain. He does not love Spain of piety and compassion to the Indians of Fra Bartolomé de las Casas; no, no, you do what you do is love the dark Spain of Torquemada. [[Applauds]] You do not see in immigrants, in others, a suffering humanity, but, as you have rightly said from this rostrum this morning, the invaders we have to return to the sea. You are not adorned, Mr. candidate, with gratitude or affection for the Spaniards who do not think like you. Therefore, what next value do you invoke, Your Honor? Constitutionalism, you say. You're a constitutionalist party. Well, Your Honor, my party, humbly, was at the birth of the Constitution. Those who thought like you, the Blas Piñar of the time, were precisely in the opposite task. In fact, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is the only party of those who lit up the Constitution that remains standing and with the same name, Mr. candidate. The Constitution was born from the understanding between the moderate right, the socialists, the communists and nationalism to leave behind the ignominy of Francoism. You are heir to the ultra-right of that time, Mr. candidate, from whom you were invective against Adolfo Suárez, from whom you were throwing the scissors with words very similar - but identical - to which you have referred and used from this rostrum this morning. You are not constitutionalists, Mr. candidate, you take advantage of the Constitution, you try to re-appropriate the Constitution to your convenience, which is a very different thing. [[Applauds]] This is what we are seeing with this ceremony today in which you take advantage of an article in the Constitution to set up a completely sterile political maneuver against the Constitution. This is what you're doing here today, Mr. Abascal. They do so from political arguments that mean quite contrary to the constitutional spirit; they do so from the cry, from the insult, from the defamation, from the lie, that is, quite contrary to what the constitutional spirit represents; they do so by seeking confrontation, division, at a time when we should all be building the opposite, which is unity. Finally, you represent quite the opposite of the constitutional spirit. Look, it's such an effort to go back in history that even the progress that others are happy with is annoying. You are annoyed by the progress and achievements we have achieved during these more than forty years of democracy. If today peace reigns in the Basque Country, if the Basques and the group of compatriots have freed themselves from terrorist violence, you are opposed. Where the majority inside and outside Spain see and see police defeat, social defeat, political defeat, democratic defeat of terrorism, you see the victory of terrorism. The Socialist Party, Mr Abascal, suffered in its own flesh the scourge of terror, as did Spanish society and Basque society. We lost prominent leaders, also almost anonymous militants, just as many militants and leaders of the People's Party lost their lives, as did the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Armed Forces and civil society. But in addition to suffering, suffering and enduring terrorism, Mr. candidate, the Socialist Party did something, it was a socialist government that finally defeated ETA. [[Prolonged applause]] And at this point, Mr. Abascal, you are not going to rewrite the story. [[Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril Barrio: It's a lie, Mr. Sánchez]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u9	Your Honor, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u10	It's in your right, Mr. Candidate... [[Rumors.- Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril Barrio: You can't say that here because it's a lie.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u11	Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u12	Praise yourselves, for the truth is that it is less and less different to see you or to listen to the people of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] It is in your right, Mr. candidate, to exhibit your past sufferings, but the sufferings of the majority of Spanish society are not a monopoly on you, Mr. candidate, and even less give you the right to question the constitutional commitment of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and of all the people we do not think like you. [[Applauds]] Your speech, Mr. candidate, is plagued by certain expressions, expelling, throwing them out, killing them. Finally, I cannot think of a feeling more unconstitutional than the one you have displayed from this rostrum today, and even less the Spain that we admire. With that thought, Mr Abascal, I can assure you that the 1978 Constitution would not have been possible. But we're done with their values. You have also made reference here to your Christian values. You invoke the Catholic Church and also its Christian values. [[Mr. Abascal Conde makes negative signs]] Yes, they do, you have; it is that I listen to you carefully. Believe me, it is in the Journal of Sessions that you have made reference to the Christian values of your party. You invoke the Catholic Church and that honors you, faith is indispensable and as President of the Government I want you to know that we will always protect all religions. Well, see if that's how Mr. Garriga has come to say that Islamic law prevails in some neighborhoods of our country. But, finally, you claim the Catholic Church and that honors you, faith is indispensable, we will protect all religions from the government, but, Mr.Abascal, Mr. candidate, you despise the figure and mandate of your highest representative, who is Pope Francis. Have you noticed that? Have you read, for example, Pope Francis' last encyclical, Fratelli tutti? [[Applauds]] I recommend that you read it or give it a summary, Mr. Abascal. [[Laughter]] What opinion do you deserve from the criticisms made by Pope Francis, and I quote textually, to closed, exasperated, resentful and aggressive nationalisms? What opinion do you deserve? What opinion does criticism deserve of those who use it, and I quote Pope Francis again textually, the political mechanism of exasperating, exacerbating and polarizing to - the pope continues - arouse constant distrust, even disguised behind the defense of some values? What opinion do you deserve, Mr. Abascal? How does your fiscal proposal to abolish all taxes, as you have come to say in your intervention, especially on high incomes, with the Pope's thought? Because the pope says this: The pope loves everyone, rich and poor, but he has an obligation, in Christ's name, to remember that the rich must help the poor, respect them and promote them. [[Applauds]] Mr. candidate, neither grateful, nor patriotic, nor constitutionalist. And Christian, you'd have to see it. What do you believe in? You will say that in freedom, to which you have referred in your speech. Look, I'll give it to you: you believe in freedom. What happens is you have to see what freedom you believe in. To do this, I will recall a curious passage from Marx, not Groucho, which tells of the reaction of a landlord who undertakes it with his black slave, in the heart of London, to batonazos. He is reprimanded by a cop, by a bobby, and the U.S. landlord is outraged and says: What kind of country is this where a gentleman cannot whip his slave freely? This is a dictatorship. You are serious when you say that you want to recover certain freedoms that have been taken away in our country, because, in fact, there was a time, not so far away, our parents and our grandparents know it very well because they lived it, suffered it, in which some were free to fire the workers freely, to imprison the trade unionists freely. There was a time when in our country the people in charge had the freedom to freely close the critical media, to indoctrinate children freely in fascism. Many homosexuals are still alive, Mr. candidate, who at some point in their lives were insulted, beaten and imprisoned because in this country there was a time when there was freedom for the presidents to insult, beat and even freely imprison homosexuals. [[Applauds]] Today, Mr. candidate, our laws do not allow discrimination or harassment or beating of women, but there are men, fortunately less and less, who miss the freedom to discriminate, harassment and beating of women. Those who long for those lost freedoms, Mr. candidate, these people feel foreign in their own country because they now live in a country, in a Spain where they have lost the freedom to imprison trade unionists, to close the annoying media, to humiliate homosexuals or to beat women. To these people you have promised to regain their freedom, but, Your Honor, Mr. candidate, you will not achieve it because their freedom is the oppression of the majority of citizens of our country and the majority of Spain will prevent it by their vote, democratically, whenever it is called to the polls. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] I am sorry to say, Mr Abascal, candidate, that I have very bad news to give to you and to all those who have put your complacency and hopes in you. The road that Spain took more than forty years ago has not turned back. There is a great majority of Spaniards and Spaniards who are determined to always move forward, to gain more freedoms, more social justice, to live in harmony, and to that Spain, which is an admirable country, the Spain we deserve, you cannot stop it. Mr. Abascal, the bad news is you're late. As you will see these days, today and tomorrow, those who support you and your project are very few, and will continue to be so provided that others take you, your project and all that you and your spokesman have said and defended this morning. Mr. Candidate, Article 113 of the Constitution, which governs the procedure of the motion of censure, was not born to channel your anger nor to spread your hatred nor to waste the public resources of this country that you say you want to defend so much. It was not born to threaten the coexistence of Spain, let alone the democracy of our country. Our country, fortunately and after many years of dictatorship, today is one of the main democracies on the planet, is one of the twenty best and most influential democracies in the world, without a doubt with defects and with the need for improvements, but it is there, among the twenty best and most influential democracies in the world; with an economy that, we recognize, advanced and grew above the average of the eurozone before the pandemic. Suddenly, we have encountered a shock, which is this global pandemic, which is affecting all countries; I insist, 40 million human beings have been infected by the virus and a million human beings have died as a result of the virus all over the world, thousands and thousands of them Spanish compatriots. In short, a pandemic that does not understand borders or ideology - including yours, Mr Abascal - or gender, but whose consequences will widen the gap of social inequality if we do not act before. Our economy, we have said on many occasions, is suffering this unprecedented shock that is affecting our productive structure and, precisely for that reason, we need to concentrate all the efforts and all the talent of the country on that common task. We need unity, which is precisely what you want to question with this motion. Mr. candidate, last January 4, in the investiture speech that the House voted in favour and that gave me the honour of becoming President of the Government by constitutional mandate, I presented a detailed project for the country, a project that represented two political forces in the first coalition government of the history of our democracy; a country project that I understand - and understand all the members of the Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it - that is a project for the next generations, a Spain that wants to move forward, that wants to overcome old conflicts and solve problems that have lasted a long time and that have focused and channelled many energies in our country over the last few years; a project that, in our view and humbly, is transformative and must respond to the great challenges ahead, many of them, by the way, similar to those facing other countries of the world. Of course, I never expected you and your group to share that project in Spain, although, I have to say, Mr Abascal - and I have said it on some other occasion when you asked me in the control sessions - we are defending a country in which you have room. That is the big difference, which in the model of country that you defend does not fit 50% of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But at least if it could be expected, Mr Abascal, that today he would bring an alternative country project: plans, proposals, management capacity, but there is none of it, Mr Abascal; what there is is hatred, anger and nothing else. On the real problems of citizenship, Mr Abascal, there is no solution on the part of your party or you. We know that he is not in favour of any of the proposals for Spain to advance that we are leading from the Government of Spain. We know that you are not in favour of democratic memory - first warning, you say on Twitter - nor of the fight against gender-based violence - second warning, Mr Abascal - nor of the state of autonomy - third warning, Mr Abascal - nor of immigration - fourth warning, Mr Abascal -. But let me ask you, what do you think, for example, of vocational training? What do you think of the circular economy? What do you think of the regulation of self-employed fakes? What do you think of equal pay for men and women? What do you think of the fourth industrial revolution or artificial intelligence? Do you have any plans for Spain beyond demolishing the achievements in rights and freedoms that we have achieved together over the past forty years? [[Applauds]] Of all this, Mr. candidate, I spoke on behalf of the coalition government in my investiture speech on 4 January. None of this we've heard of here today to you. Allow me to review some of the issues I mentioned then. I spoke, for example, of social justice, of reducing inequalities. And what have we heard here today about these issues from you, Mr. Candidate? Nothing, nothing. What I have heard, and I was also recorded on fire in memory, was to call the Red Cross and Caritas chiringuitos. [[Applauds]] That's what you said. I talked about the defense of the public, I talked about the welfare state. With the plans that you have shown here today and which have been systematically defending in this House, Mr Abascal, the state would no longer make EUR 17 billion; that is, the far-right side wants to give up 20% of the state's public revenue. Do you really believe, Mr Abascal, that public health, public education, attention to our elderly dependents can be improved as well? I also talked about freedom, individual rights, human rights. What have we heard here today on these issues? What we have heard is less than nothing; it is very worrying, Mr. candidate. You have threatened to ban political parties that do not think like you, you have threatened to expel immigrants, you have threatened to disregard people who have relatives buried in counetas. [[Mr. Abascal Conde pronounces words that are not perceived]] Yes, yes, what you have to do is forget because you and the people you represent bother you. I also spoke about territorial cohesion, Spain's diversity and the dialogue between communities, Mr Abascal. What have we heard about this to you? For what we have been listening to in recent months: to imprison hundreds of thousands of Catalans, to besiege the co-official languages and to end the autonomous state; that is, with the heart of the constitutional pact, which is Title VIII. In the investiture session of January, on 4 January, Mr. candidate, I spoke of climate emergency, science, culture, education, pensions, employment, a new status of workers, the minimum interprofessional wage, digitisation, social justice, research, development, demographic challenge, rural development, support for vulnerable families, the right to euthanasia, increased portfolio of public health benefits, institutional regeneration, feminism, sustainable tourism, autonomous financing, dependency law, protection of children from violence. What have we heard you talk about these matters to your lordship? Nothing, or sometimes less than nothing, which is regression, confrontation and, ultimately, hatred. Mr. candidate, I'm going to give you a more political reflection that I hope you don't share, but at least make you think. Look, at a historical moment someone had the brilliant idea of using them to change the direction and leadership of the Spanish right, and they got it. I have to admit that Columbus's picture is undoubtedly his great political triumph; I recognize him. Some of those portrayed there are no longer among us, and it is certain that the account has not yet been completed. Others continue to believe that the far right is of some use, which can serve as a ram for conservative forces to bring down the coalition government. Understand me, Mr. Abascal, you don't think of building an alternative with you, I'm sorry to reveal it to you. They use their vehemence; faith in their abilities as manager is also scarce among the right because they most likely know you much better than we do. Let's just say that what they want as an instrument of attack is to the far right thinking that after - and this is the mistake of the traditional right - you will be easily domesticated. And here I think, Mr. Candidate, they're wrong about you. Surprised that someone on the traditional right can continue to bet on a strategy so many times failed; at this point you have to be a very silly frog to think that this time the scorpion will not sting. You do not constitute a danger by the force of your votes, I am convinced that the majority, the vast majority of Spaniards and Spaniards, will never parade behind your crazy flags; you are a danger because you are contagious, as we are seeing throughout this legislature, your ideas to the right. That is the corridor that you have opened, imposing a strategy of opposition of insults, hatred and provocations, dragging to the traditional right. [[applause]] At another time, the right, even the hardest right, for example Aznar's, let's remember - how long ago, right?-, invoked Azaña, paid tribute to Miguel Hernández; today that right obeys them cowardly, complicated; the memory of democrats such as Indalecio Prieto or Largo Caballero, who, by the way, promoted the reform of the working day to forty hours, starts from the streets of Madrid. [[applause]] The danger with your ideology, Mr. candidate, is not to take what you say seriously, to think that you are not serious, because finally - finally - if you have minimal power, you end up carrying out your threats. With all due respect, Mr. candidate, the worrying thing about Spain is that, it's not you, it's what you represent. The worrying thing is the call of the abyss that you represent for certain figures of the Spanish right, the temptation to have internalized that traditional right that you are indispensable to return at some point to power. I would therefore like to use this rostrum to address all citizens who legitimately want another Government for our country from conservative positions, because that is the essence of democracy. And they want it from the conviction of their ideas and from the weight of the arguments derived from those convictions; to be president of the Government of Spain is also to be theirs and I ask them not to abandon their ideas or renounce their arguments, to keep themselves in the constructive debate, however passionate it is, always on the basis of the certain facts, that they do not cross the line, that they do not play with fire, that they build their alternative from respect and rationality, because, as one English philosopher, Thomas Paine, said, arguing with a person who has renounced the use of reason is like giving medicine to a dead man. Mr Casado, it is up to you whether authoritarianism, anger and intolerance prevail on the Spanish right or not. I ask you not to be dragged away by the totalitarian temptation, I ask you not to give a success to the far right because it will turn against everyone and before and more forcefully against you and against the party that leads. I ask you to interrupt this drift that began at the time when the ultra-right infiltrated your ideas into the People's Party's brain and also marked the path of the new leaders of the People's Party. Maybe no one has told you, Mr. Married, but I think it's time for you to listen. The candidate for the Presidency of the Government today, Mr Abascal and his own, will never have enough, they will always fix a higher test for him. You will believe that you will appease them every time you content them, as you have done, for example, in the City Hall of Madrid, but you will always ask them more and every time you ask them more and you give in more, the more you will despise them and the more you will call them right cowardly. Because where you think you display strength, what you manifest in your eyes and in the eyes of all Spaniards, Mr Casado, is an extraordinary weakness. I therefore invite you to interrupt the drift, to cut with the far right, as do moderate European leaders, for example Chancellor Merkel, and I formally ask you to vote not in this motion of censure, that you are not the beneficiary, but the target of this attack, and to proclaim that the Spanish right has nothing to do with the Spanish far right. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not enough to profile, it is not enough to abstain, I ask you to return to the behaviour and the sense of state demanded of the People's Party. You have blocked the renewal of the main institutions of the State, and you have missed the constitutional mandate because you believe that they are yours and are willing not to renew them until theirs return. That is an absolute disregard for the constitutional spirit. [[Applauds]] You are extending, together with the candidate for the Presidency of the Government, Mr Abascal, a black legend about Spain in Europe saying little less that you are stalking a dictatorship. You said it. [[Rumors]] Yes, you have said that throughout the state of alarm. You have defamed, harm the country, and that is never the way, Mr. Married, but no longer to be president of the government, not even the way to be leader of the opposition, Mr. Married. [[Applauds]] To the other groups, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to show the candidate and the far right what is the response of the majority of Spaniards and Spaniards to their project of hatred, anger and confrontation. This will be the motion of censure with the least support in history, even if they get the People's Party to abstain or vote in favour. It is going to be a failure because, despite the difficulties, ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of parliamentarians gathered here are looking to move forward, to overcome the health emergency, to protect those most hit by this health emergency and to begin the economic recovery of our country as soon as possible. If anything unites our country, it is their unanimous desire to get out of this health, economic and social emergency together and without leaving anyone behind. If anything Spain wants is to reactivate, to recover, to grow. If anything wants most Spaniards and Spaniards, of all generations I would say, it is future; a prosperous, secure, certain, stable future. If one thing the citizens of our country want is to recover, protect their jobs, the stability of the companies, to reinvigorate the mood. If something the Spaniards want is a policy that resolves and not that aggravates the difficulties, as you are doing systematically every time you make opposition, the ultra-right and the traditional right. If anything, the Spaniards want the brake of division and hatred to go away. If something our country wants is to overcome the disagreement within Catalonia and between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, it is to overcome this conflict through dialogue within the Constitution. If one thing most citizens in our country want is to be united in a legislature that has to be exceptional because the challenges are exceptional, but despite that complexity, we can make a legislature not only long but also fruitful, as I have said on many other occasions. You, Mr. candidate, wanted to use the democratic Constitution to promote an act of propaganda of a message of hatred, anger and shock. That is the synthesis of your speech and of the debate that we are going to have today and tomorrow. But as I told you at the beginning of my speech, you have made a serious mistake, and it is that you have not calculated the strength of the Constitution, the strength of democracy. Tomorrow we will vote on all the legitimate representatives of the Spanish citizens who reflected in their vote precisely the composition of this House, and in that panel, Mr Abascal, Mr candidate, you will see that the Spanish fortunately reject your proposal for hatred, anger and shock. The far right will be defeated by Spain in all its greatness and in all its diversity. I invite the spokespersons of all groups - I am convinced that they are going to do so, it is simply a rhetorical claim - not to be dragged away by the provocation of the ultra-right candidate, not to follow his language of insults, of hatred, because, in short, it is what he wants. This - if I may, I will make a play on words - can be an extremely constructive, extremely constructive motion of censure, because it will be constructive and upbuilding to see how the vast majority of representatives of the Spaniards close the way to their project of hatred, anger and shock. [[Applauds]] You, Mr. Candidate, won't convince today how you won't win either. And Spanish democracy will express with its vote the same wish that the Spaniards have expressed at every historic crossroads to which they have been called: to move forward and not to back off. That, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. candidate, will be the constructive result of this motion of censure, that of a great democracy such as Spain. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sanchez, I see you're preparing your visit to see the pope. [[Laughter]] All we needed was for the champion of abortion, euthanasia and narcosocialism to dress us as a monarch and start reading encyclicals in this rostrum, and we have seen it. [[Applauds]] I see you in the counter-replication by praying here the little Jesus of my life, but since I have not spoken of my faith - and I will not - I will not tell you whether you have to pray, whether it is good or bad. [[laughs]] What I'm going to tell you is that I think you could use a conscience test for the lies you've perpetrated, for how you've deceived the electorate. [[applause]] And he has not yet given a single explanation in this rostrum why he said he would not deal with those lords, with those and with those others, and he has agreed with all of them. [[with the index finger alternately towards the seats occupied by the parliamentary groups that support the coalition government]] So, in addition to reading encyclicals, you might want to do your particular consciousness test, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Good thing you weren't going to fall for the provocations, in what you've called provocations. By the way, all the stuffed with lies, false phrases that neither I nor our group have spoken. And you know why? Because you have done as always, you have come here with the written speech, with the speech made, you have not heard anything at all. It has come to us that there has been no proposal. For I will not repeat them, then you take them and if you want, in the Palace of the Moncloa, listen to them again just to realize that what they prepare sometimes does not correspond to reality. [[laughs]] You'd do well to do that. [[Applauds]] It bothers you to make references to the Chinese virus and call it that. It just comes from China. [[Laughter]] Or do you want us to call you in Spain the Moncloa Palace virus? It would also make some sense to shed light in a very clear way on how you have managed the coronavirus epidemic in Spain; in an absolutely disastrous way. Because this is the government, Mr Sánchez, with the most dead, with more infected health care, with more chaos in the count of the dead, with more destruction of employment and wealth and - I have forgotten to say it before - the world's most lying government, everything you have been saying in this gallery for months and everything you have said about us today is plain and plainly a lie. [[Applauds]] So I ask the people who are watching us today and who have heard your speech telling us what we had said, to do the favor of listening to us because they are not going to get a very accurate idea if they just listen to you. [[Rumors]] I have told you that you represent the worst government in eighty years and, moreover, I have told you why: you have agreed with the communists, with the separatists, with the terrorists, you have put us at the forefront of the greatest economic contraction in eighty years, of the greatest public debt in eighty years, of the greatest destruction of employment. I've justified it, and then you've come here to make a dialectic trap and for a while you've been reporting historical episodes, in your own way. But you have also come to say that we are the worst in this Parliament, that is, we are worse than those who justify in this Parliament the murder of almost a thousand Spaniards. [[Applauds]] We're worse for you. For you, José Antonio Ortega Lara is worse than Arnaldo Otegi. That's what you said in the rostrum. I'm just applying your logic, Mr. Sanchez. He then said that we hate Spain for the way we say we are going to fight separatism. Obviously, we don't like separatists at all. The problem is that you say you love Spain with that taste for a pact with the separatists. We hate Spain!; you mean to tell me that all those partners of yours, those investment accomplices like Spain, love Spain? I'm going to tell you something else, not just the separatists, the lord who sits next to you said: It's that I can't say Spain, I can't say Spain - literal phrases because I don't make up one, Mr.Sánchez; he also said that our flag produced hives and the national anthem seemed to him a facsimile petre pachanga. [[applause]] Don't say that we don't want Spain, I accept that we want it in a different way than you do. [[Rumors]] That we hate Spain, but have you really seen those around it, have you seen those who vote for it, have you seen those who support it, have you seen those who applaud it? He has also stated that there is no alternative majority - it seems obvious - and that, then, what we do here. Well, first of all, make you a motion of censure and say the reasons why you should be censored. Secondly, to put forward an alternative programme, as we have done, despite the fact that you, with the written speech, have come to say that we have not made any proposals. And thirdly, to make an act of reprimand against you, because all ministers can be reprimanded, but the President of the Government can't, and the only way to reprimand him is with the instrument of the motion of censure. And what we have done here today is come to give voice to millions of Spaniards who are absolutely shocked by their political action, how they are managing the health drama and the economic drama. We have done it, we are proud to have done it and we would do it again and we will do it whenever necessary. [[Applauds]] When I listen to him, sometimes I have the temptation not to go up and replicate him because it is impossible to argue with you and everything he says is a lie, everything he says about us, everything he says to his constituents. You lie unscrupulously, you lie until you lose your breath and, therefore, the debate between us becomes complicated, Mr Sánchez. He's come up here to say I'm obsessed with the past. You have come up to this rostrum to say that we are obsessed with the past: you, who want to impose a law of totalitarian memory to tell the Spaniards what you have to think of the past and what not, those who come to dig up dead. [[Applauds]] We have come to tell you that we are obsessed with the future of our children, with the inheritance that our parents and grandparents have given us - also to all of you - and that we have to give our children in the form of unity, in the form of freedom and in the form of prosperity. [[Applauds]] But even you are sometimes right, and you have come here to tell a truth: you have said that we generate hatred. It is true, yours, unfortunately; yours, Mr Sánchez, and I am sorry for you. I've said it many times; we don't hate them, but you hate us; we don't. You hate all those who believe in something firmly and are not willing to compromise with anyone. You hate the one who challenges the dictatorship to progress, to everything politically correct, to everything you or your allies say within that globalism in which you say what is right and what is wrong. They hate us because we remind them of everything you don't like. You've come here to do a brutal cartoon of VOX and, of course, you can't do it with my words, you've had to do it with inventions, with half truths, with phrases that you couldn't even shatter, saying we say things we've never said. And you need to do that, you need to do that brutal cartoon of VOX to justify that gentleman sitting next to you, to justify that they receive the votes of those others and to justify that they support you as well. [[points index finger to the second vice president of the government]] [[points to the seats occupied by the parliamentary groups supporting the coalition Government]] You want to agree with all the enemies of freedom, unity and agreement in this Parliament, and for that you have the need to destroy a party like VOX, which defends the Constitution, which defends democracy, which defends the rule of law, which defends the independence of powers, which is exactly what you are trying to overthrow all these days. [[Applauds]] It is true that with that fake caricature you will be able to generate hatred against us, but it is the only way forward to justify your pact with ETA, your pact with the coups in Catalonia and your pact with the communists. By the way, the communists, those who you said that the only thing they wanted - they didn't have to have a political programme, which is what you accused me of today - was to control the spies, the CNI - it seems that they are doing well - the police, the prosecutors, the judges of the General Council of Judicial Power and the journalists. You said this about the gentleman who sits next to you, and the only way to justify who sits next to you and the lies you have made and with which you have deceived so many Spaniards is to do that brutal cartoon of VOX and, of course, to implode these poor gentlemen of the People's Party, who have no fault of what we defend. [[Laughter]] Mr Sánchez, there is very little debate between you and me. Clearly, we are like water and oil. I believe I have told you everything I had to say today, along with an alternative programme, but I also take the opportunity to state that we have not tabled this motion of censure just to portray you and to make you re-represent yourself with all your allies and your accomplices. We have done so so that all Members reflect on the continuity of their support for a government that has behaved in a criminal, sectarian way and that brings us to ruin; that they reflect and, if necessary, that they be retracted. And we have done so to tell the Spaniards that there is an alternative to the drama and ruin that you have brought to Spain, and that today we will not succeed, but that you can have hope because a majority of Spaniards believe in national unity, love a united Spain, love the diversity of their regions - as we do -, love the rule of law, legal security, the rule of law; a majority of Spaniards can have hope that memory is free - the present and the historical - and that it is not imposed by politicians, that there is freedom in education, that there is freedom in universities, that there is freedom on television; a majority of Spaniards can have hope that we will defend the separation of powers; a majority of Spaniards can have hope and know that there is an alternative that will recover for Spain international respect and that will get us out of the international shame in which you have plunged us; and a majority of Spaniards can have hope that justice will be done against evildoers. Mr Sánchez, if you want, you can take advantage of it and, once and for all, tell us why you fooled the voters by saying that you would not deal with all of them and you ended up agreeing with all of them. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u15	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. candidate, I am starting from where I also started the first of the speeches, however much it provokes we are not going to get into your provocations, Mr. Abascal. [[Rumors]] I tell you one thing, Mr. candidate, and I tell you with all due respect: I don't hate you, we don't hate you. That is not believed; on the contrary, we want to argue with precisely your postulates so that those who trusted you in previous electoral processes will see that the only future you offer is a future full of bleakness, blackness and that, therefore, there are other paths in which they can perfectly turn their trust to achieve their goals that are legitimate. That's just it, Your Honor. Indeed, it is difficult to discuss with you for the simple reason that it is not that you oppose the system - I have said it many times -; you oppose the system. It is therefore difficult to talk and argue with you about politics because what you do is question the substantive political debate, question the democratic foundations. You can argue that there are proposals to repeal the Gender Violence Act, you can argue that it is a proposal to illegalize half of the political parties that are represented in this House, but that, at least in the opinion of the Government and most of the parliamentary forces in this House, is quite the opposite. Besides, I think you used the pandemic as another excuse. This weekend I had a little opportunity to prepare the interventions - because we already know more or less where you are going, we already know each other, Mr. candidate, we know what your arguments are - and I have been looking at this foundation of thought that you have created. I don't remember right now what it's called, it seems to me Dissenso. It is curious because there is not a single proposal there, there is not a single analysis of the pandemic, but there is a munition, ladies and gentlemen, very extensive on counterproposals to what you call the politically correct. And what is politically correct for you is, for example, respect for women, respect for minorities, respect for homosexuals. That's right, all in the name of freedom. I take myself seriously, Mr. candidate - I said it at the end of my speech -, your arguments, I listen to you carefully. I have read, for example, the text of your motion of censure to which you referred in your first speech, not in the second speech where I have noticed you a little more loosely. I have to recognize him. [[Laughter]] And because I am constructive, Mr Abascal, I would like to use this motion precisely to discuss point by point what are the central elements that explain, in the opinion of you and your ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of this motion of censure, because it seems to me important that it is in the Journal of Sessions and, above all, that the Spanish citizens know exactly what the coalition government stands for and what you represent. You said that, first of all, the reason for the motion relates to the constitution of the current social-communist government by means of Spanish electoral fraud and its dependence on the separatist political forces. This is the first of the weighty reasons for presenting this motion of censure, even you have urged me at the end of your reply to answer why - you say - I deceived the Spaniards. Finally, all this retahíla that you as well as the traditional right, Mr. Married, usually repeat regularly every time you have occasion. Let's see, the legitimacy of this government, Your Honor, is given by the two electoral victories that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party won in 2019 and by support in the investiture session of very few months ago that represent twelve million voters in our country. Logically, the Socialist Party aspired to have electoral results in both disputes, like any other party, with sufficient support to be able to rule alone, and the Spaniards decided to give the Socialist Party their majority confidence, but not enough support to be able to rule alone. So, what did we do, what do the Democrats do? Pact. Deal with who? Are we going to agree with a People's Party that what it does is docilely secondary its delegitimizing positions of the coalition government? Do we agree with a People's Party that has prevented the formation of any government headed by the Socialist Party over the past year? We agree with another progressive force with which we have, logically, our differences, but with which we also have our conjunctions and which have to do, for example, with our purpose of social and democratic progress. Therefore, that was the alternative, Mr Abascal. Look, your mentor, Mr. candidate, Mr. José María Aznar, was invested with the votes of Convergence i Unió and the Basque Nationalist Party. José María Aznar was voted by the Basque Nationalist Party and Convergence i Unió, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, of those parties of which you abhor - you were then leader of the People's Party - we must remember what the then president of the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Arzalluz, said. Mr Arzalluz came to say that in thirteen days he had obtained more from José María Aznar than in fourteen years from Felipe González. [[Applauds]] You have also said, Mr. candidate, today and on some other occasions, that the Socialist Party commits an absolute betrayal of the victims of terrorism, of its memory. You have even come to say in some other debate, Your Honor, that we have completed the repeal of the prison policy of dispersal of terrorists serving prison sentences. This is also not only what you say, but also what the People's Party does in one way or another. I would like to tell you, Your Honor, that this Government has not amended any law or prison regulations. I will remind you of some things that seem important to me to include in the Journal of Sessions on the regrouping of prisoners. Between 1996 and 1999, with ETA in one of the most active criminal stages, José María Aznar's Government regrouped nearly 200 prisoners. At that time, you, Mr. candidate, were a member of the People's Party - councillor of the People's Party in the Basque Country - and you do not remember any of your complaints about that rapprochement of prisoners that was real and that also happened when ETA existed and killed. [[applause]] These decisions, Mr. candidate, had continuity with the Government of Mariano Rajoy, which regrouped twenty-eight prisoners, rather, who managed to move to more flexible prison regimes. Not that it regrouped, but managed to move to more flexible prison regimes. [[rumors]] I don't know what's worse, ladies, I don't know what's worse. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u18	Do you know what the Socialist Party said then? Nothing. He accepted it with loyalty because the Socialist Party has never used terrorism as an element of political confrontation with the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We've never done it. The reform, Mr. candidate - you will remember because it was political then in the People's Party - of the Penal Code of 1995, under a socialist government, entailed the redemption of the penalty for work, which in all likelihood was a tightening of the penalties to the ages. The 2010 reform of the Criminal Code, again under another socialist government, tightened the conditions for access to third grade, including those convicted of terrorism. In particular, 50 % of the sentences were required to be served in order to have a third degree. It was with a government of the Socialist Party, Mr. candidate, and you are much more intransigent with prison policy now that ETA does not murder than when ETA did murder, but ruled the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I will remind you, Mr. candidate, of a painful episode, and I also think it is important for all citizens who are following this debate to remember it. In January 2002 - you will remember - the Socialist Party's partner and leader of the Socialist Youth of Euskadi, Eduardo Madina, suffered an ETA attack. The whole democratic society wanted to unite to give a strong and democratic response to this attempt to assassinate Eduardo Madina. A mass demonstration was organized that had the following motto: There is no more homeland than humanity. Do you remember, Mr. Abascal? Then, the New Generations of the People's Party broke consensus and unity. Do you know who was the leader of the People's Party of New Generations in the Basque Country then? It was you, Mr. Abascal. [[Applauds]] I mean, you, Mr. candidate, were already using terrorism as an unworthy political weapon. That you continue to use it now when exactly nine years ago ETA stopped killing, gives an idea of what you are in politics: a predator without values and without any scruples. [[Applauds]] Finally, you take advantage of the history of ETA and the division with respect to Catalonia to try to confront and divide Spanish society as well as Catalan society. We know what your solution is to the Catalan conflict, a problem that has consumed, as I said in my first speech, enormous energies, which has caused pain, frustration; and the duty we have all public representatives is to try to overcome and close those wounds. Its solution of the problem is quite simple - it is usually usual, by the way, on the right - to deny the problem. The truth is that they are great at the alternatives they give to the problems our country has. For example, the Basque Country is called Vascongada provinces and settled matter, eh, Mr. candidate? And whoever doesn't like it, he knows what awaits him, and whoever wants to talk is a traitor. But there is a problem in Catalonia, Mr. candidate, a problem that was aggravated by the response, in the opinion of the Socialist Party, indolent and clumsy of the previous government, and we have to solve it, Mr. candidate, ladies and gentlemen. We also know in this case what your solution is: to achieve the victory of the candidate for the Generalitat, of Mr Garriga, who you have walked around in the first event of the Catalan pre-election campaign. And then I understand that the solution is to dissolve the Generalitat of Catalonia and then what we have to do is to dissolve the autonomous state and end Title VIII of the Constitution, you who are so constitutionalistic. And whoever doesn't like it, wood until they speak the language of the empire! [[Applauds]] Our solution, Mr. candidate, is not that. Of course, there was a violation of the law, and of course the courts dealt with it and handed down a judgement that is being enforced. But behind that transgression of the law there is a much more serious phenomenon than even you can perfectly understand, and it is that there is a gap within Catalan society. There is a sector of Catalan society that doubts that its progress and well-being are compatible with the progress and well-being of Spain. The only answer you have for those doubts is to confirm them. You strive to drive away those who doubt, that is, you are the best allies of the most recalcitrant separatists. [[Applauds]] Naturally, on the other side there are leaders who also want to blow up the bridges; we have seen it over the years. They are people who, for example, claim that Lluís Company murdered Spain. What we say is that Lluís Companys was killed by the same regime that killed Blas Infante, who forced the death in prison of Julián Besteiro or the death in exile of the President of the Republic Manuel Azaña. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, we bet on a prosperous and free Catalonia linked to the future of a prosperous and free Spain and also a prosperous and free Europe, and we call it the meeting agenda. Mr Garriga, who has tabled the motion, has criticized the meetings we had at the dialogue table between the Government and the Government of the Government of Catalonia, to which we have brought a transparent proposal known to all the millions and millions of Spaniards, with forty-four points on real and concrete issues that have always fixed the debate during the last few years by the various Governments of the Government of Catalonia. But, finally, it doesn't matter, Mr. candidate, for you Catalonia is one more example of how you understand the social order. This Government, I say to you with all due respect, Mr Abascal, defends from the first to the last of the articles of the Constitution, from the first to the last. Those who do not do so are those political forces that block the renewal of institutions that need to be renewed and that have been in office for a long time, such as the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court and the Ombudsman. Look, you are so enthusiastic about the Constitution that you advocate the abolition of the Constitutional Court. You like human rights so much that you reject the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. And in line with their territorial model, which abhors autonomous communities, what they propose is also to centralize the judicial system. That's how we solve all the problems, isn't it, Mr. Candidate? That is to say, eighty years ago, when those charitable governments prevailed that please you and those you represent so much. The second argument you use in the motion of censure is criminal management of the pandemic, criminal management. He could have said bad management, he could have said bad management, but he wanted to point out criminal management. To you any adjective under criminal should look like a softness, an unmanned or feminized response, would I say, right, Mr. Abascal? [[Applauds]] But this is a country with decentralized health management; by the way, for this decentralised health management ask Mr Aznar and therefore the traditional right. In that context, I would like to share with you some lessons on the pandemic that I think it is important to share with your ladies and gentlemen. The first of these, Mr. candidate, is that Spain occupies today - today, because this is a dynamic pandemic, as we all know - the twentieth position in the ranking of countries by cumulative incidence per 100,000 inhabitants since the beginning of the pandemic. The second lesson is about the alleged concealment of the deaths to which you refer. Note that in the United Kingdom the estimated excess mortality exceeds 7000 deaths from COVID deaths, 7000 in the United Kingdom; 11 000 in Italy; 4000 in Portugal; 3000 in the Netherlands. Mr. candidate, are these also concealments of Spain's poor social-communist government? Your Honor, this government has been appearing daily to account for the situation of COVID, communicating figures of contagion, hospitalized and deceased; figures that communicate and communicate to us all the autonomous governments, some of them supported by you in the regional assemblies. That is to say, if we take your thinking to the absurdity, what you are saying is that you are deceiving the autonomous governments to deceive the Government of Spain and the Government of Spain in turn to deceive the citizens about the figures of the deceased. [[Applauds]] Mr. candidate, the sources from which your party obtains excess mortality are official sources, are facilitated by the Government of Spain, which are available to all citizens without concealing any data; maximum and absolute transparency. In any case, Mr.Abascal, you exhibit very little modesty with great sadness for the deceased in this pandemic, but you were not present when we had to pay tribute and memory to the deceased by the victims of COVID. [[Applauds]] The sincerity of that pain, Mr. candidate, that sadness, we already had the opportunity to check it when you showed up in the middle of the pandemic on the top of a bus and compared your concentration with the celebration of a football cup. A long time ago, the vast majority of Spanish society, Mr. candidate, learned to judge the sincerity of pain by the facts and not by the color of the tie. The third lesson, Mr. candidate, is about returning to the classroom. Until September we have held twenty-two territorial meetings with the autonomous communities - the Minister of Education and Vocational Training knows well - including seven sectoral education conferences, two of which are jointly held with the Minister of Health. We have adopted agreements, coordinated actions to complete the last course and also to prepare the 2020-2021 course. We have carried out - I said in the first of the interventions - I believe that an unprecedented investment - it is true that the pandemic we have is also unprecedented - in order to safeguard the equity and equal opportunities of our children, about EUR 3 billion that we have lost to the autonomous communities precisely to strengthen the education systems, to reduce the ratios of pupils per teacher, in short, to guarantee the invisibility of our children and our daughters and the equality of opportunities and their education. The ministry has also acted by exercising leadership based on coordination, in collaboration with the rest of the councils, and the incidence there is around 1%, Mr. candidate. Well, something will be doing well for all of us, the autonomous governments and the government of Spain. The fourth lesson is on ERTE; I think there is very little to say about it. I believe that the State has provided economic coverage to workers, to companies up to the exceptional moment we are living in, and I want to acknowledge the work of the Minister of Labour and Social Economy, as well as of the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, because they have led dialogues and negotiation processes with the very complicated social actors, at very intense moments, but it has been done in an outstanding way and I want it to appear in the Journal of Sessions. [[Applauds]] You talk about the economic situation and you're right. Of course, we have a huge burden on the tourism sector in our country; until the pandemic arrived we were boasting precisely that more than 80 million people from other countries visited our beaches, our monuments, our cities. For you to get an idea, in Spain tourism accounts for almost three times as much of the gross domestic product as in the OECD average. Obviously, we will be more affected than other economies as a result of the burden of the tourism sector in our country, but it is not true that our country suffers the world's greatest recession, as you say. Notice, the annual fall in GDP in the second quarter was, as you have rightly recalled, 17.8 %. It is less than that of the United Kingdom, for example, of 19.8%, and I do not want to quote other countries outside our continent. It is also true, Mr. candidate, that the recent forecasts of an agency I believe that nothing suspected of being a socialcommunist, such as the International Monetary Fund, says that we are going to have an upward recovery of 7.2% of GDP in 2021. We are the only advanced economy to which this growth forecast for 2021 has been revised upwards. What measures would VOX have taken? I insist, I have only listened to one, that of paying the payroll to the 13 million workers, that of paying the payroll to the civil servants and the self-employed. And the question is, where would the money come from? Man, what was noted was your answer, Mr Abascal, not in this debate, but in another. You came to say textually that it would be financed with the ecological transition, what you have called the climate chiringuite. Of course, that's very easy, Mr. Candidate, to square the accounts. The sixth lesson is immigration. Immigration and China, Mr. candidate, have not been the cause of the spread of the virus; they have not been. I ask you for a minimum of rigour and also a minimum of humanity, at least not to lie about these issues. It is true that we have a problem of arrival of migration to the Canary Islands and we are talking and working with the autonomous governments. I am convinced that it will also be discussed during this motion of censure. We have to do a lot more. There the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration is working together with the rest of the Government, but the figures are very sketchy. Note: the number of irregular immigrants arriving in Spain in the first nine months of this year is the lowest in the last three years. Something will also have to do with the immigration policy that we are implementing from the Spanish Government, an immigration policy that does not focus solely on the security dimension of combating irregular migration, but on talking to the countries of origin, talking to the transit countries, trying to strengthen that cooperation, that cooperation. A few days ago I was in Algeria and also in Mauritania, and when I am not there I am the Minister of the Interior. In addition, other representatives of the Government are going to those countries, to Morocco too, precisely to reinforce that co-responsibility that we all have in relation to migration. You say that you have made no reference to your creed, to your religious faith, but there is nothing more to remember than the phrase with which Mr. Garriga said goodbye after his long stay. I must remind you again, and I feel that I do, the last encyclical Fratelli Tutti, of Pope Francis - I know it hurts you, but what we're going to do to him -. It says: Our efforts in relation to migration, says the pope, before the migrants who arrive can be summed up in four verbs - listen well, Mr. candidate -: welcome, protect, promote and integrate. They are completely different verbs to those you referred to when you talked about migration. [[Applauds]] We, Mr Abascal, have not hidden information, neither before nor after the pandemic nor after the state of alarm; we have always acted according to the information we had at that time, with absolute transparency. You've spoken again about March 8th. We did not prevent any kind of demonstration, meeting or public events on 8 March. The far right, by the way, held its congress in Vistalegre on 8 March, to which Mr Garriga referred. At that moment - I have pointed out here - the ultra-right sent a message to its militants, in which you said, and I quote textually, that between suspending the act and contributing to a harmful alarmism or continuing the planned agenda, as has been decided, but taking all the precautions that are in your hand... What you did then was keep that congress. But, beyond that, Mr. candidate, I give you one more reflection of political philosophy, if I may. From the legal point of view, banning a demonstration affects a fundamental right of citizenship that is recognized in our Constitution. In other words, in the light of the medical data handled on those dates, the Spanish Government had no solid legal basis for suspending the demonstration on 8 March, as you repeatedly insist without any basis. Again, I would remind you that similar demonstrations took place that day in all countries, in France, the United Kingdom, Germany and Portugal; sporting events, political demonstrations and mass sporting events were held. On the scientific committee, Mr Abascal, because you referred, by the way, in your first intervention - I have been passed on - not directly to the work of Mr Simon, the director of the Centre for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, I have to tell you that I, as President of the Government, am proud and fortunate of the work that Dr Simon and his entire team are doing at the head of the Department of Health. [[Applauds]] With regard to health care, because you also refer to them in your motion of censure, the Government of Spain is very aware of the situation of risk, of the stress to which health professionals in our country are being subjected, but I would like to recall one thing: the Government of Spain put almost 82 000 health care workers at the service of the health advisers of all the autonomous communities during the pandemic, and on 29 September we adopted a real decree-law for the strengthening of the National Health System's staff. In the autonomous communities in which you, Mr. candidate, approve the budgets together with the People's Party, have you demanded that health care be strengthened? Have you demanded that more health professionals be hired, Mr. Abascal? There's no record of that, Mr. Candidate. And the tenth, about the senior residences. Look, rhetorical cruelty and cynicism I think they have limits, Mr. Candidate. You have come to say things like the following: the elders of our country have been given morphine and sedation instead of medicines. In other cases there may be doubts, but in this you are perfectly aware that you are spreading a cruel falsehood. You know perfectly well that management, that direct supervision of residences is in the hands of the Autonomous Communities and not of the Government of Spain. [[Rumors]] Several of these autonomous communities have governments supported by their party, and several of them, by the way, Mr. candidate, are the worst registered in this area. [[Applauds]] But you will see, with all the differences we can have with autonomous governments supported by you and led by the People's Party, I will tell you one thing: I am fully sure, fully sure that not a single autonomous government, whatever its political colour, has had that inhuman purpose as you cruelly insinuate towards the Government of Spain. Can we all improve our management? Without a doubt, the Spanish Government has repeatedly said so. Should we have that self-requirement? Without a doubt, we can and must improve. And one of the conclusions that we need to draw from this health emergency is that we need to improve coordination mechanisms between the Autonomous Communities and between the Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain; that we need to strengthen the resources, the common services that support the various territorial administrations; that we need to strengthen public health; that we need to strengthen primary care even more, because hospital care has become much more important to the detriment of primary care, which is right now - let us say - the containment barrier to the spread of the virus. In other words, we have and must address greater cooperation while respecting competences in order to achieve better results. Let's continue with your reasons, Mr. Abascal. The third of them is democratic degeneration, in your view, and the assault on the counter-powers called to limit the Executive Power; this is the third reason that you make in the motion. You are also insistently talking about democratic degeneration and making unfounded statements that I would like to respond to. First, what you say, without any compromises, is that this government wants to overthrow the Royal House, the monarchy; weak favor you do by defending the Royal House and the monarchy. But it's curious, because you said this five years ago. On the question of monarchy or republic, the candidate for the Presidency of the Government said: 'We do not enter into that debate, we would not make a referendum for it; but if the monarchy accepted reforms aimed at confederalization of Spain within the same Crown, we would be many who would prefer a united republic to a monarchy that would cut sovereignty. The monarchy only if it serves - according to his words - for the unity of Spain.' [[Applauds]] Anyway, Mr. Abascal. You said, rather, it was your spokesman, Mr Garriga, that I and the Government have carried out an institutional blow, following a little the thread of Mr Casado's traditional right that we have suspended all parliamentary sessions during the pandemic, that we did not want to account for these things that you say so often. It is curious to deal with this measure, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, because in the autonomous communities where the People's Party governs with the support of the ultra-right, the suspension of parliamentary activity has been even more lasting than the suspension of parliamentary activity in the Congress of Deputies. In Murcia, for example, Mr Casado, Mr Abascal, the Regional Assembly's Board of Spokesmen, in which the right wing is present, decided to suspend parliamentary activity until 22 April. What a scandal! In Madrid, from 12 March to 24 April. In Andalusia they went further, Mr. candidate, the plenary was suspended until 5 May after a writing, by the way, led by the far right in the Andalusian Parliament, in which it was reported that the deputies of VOX would not attend the aforementioned sessions before - and I quote textually - the risk of a possible infection by COVID-19. On the other hand, in order to be included in the Journal of Sessions at least, Mr. candidate, the Congress of Deputies held its first session of parliamentary control of the Government on Wednesday, April 15th, in addition to having to appear every fifteen days to request the extension of the state of alarm and, in addition, the commitment that we have made to the Minister of Health to appear weekly in the Health Committee to report on the management of the pandemic. But, in any case, the control sessions to the Government of Spain on 15 April and in Andalusia, where you govern with the People's Party, on 5 May, until 5 May, the plenary sessions were suspended. There is one thing that particularly bothers me, Mr. Candidate for the Presidency of the Government, and that is that he accuses us of instrumentalizing the State Security Forces and Corpses and of also endangering the security of the Spaniards. To be included in the Journal of Sessions, in the Council of Ministers of 21 July we approved a public offer of employment of 2490 new places for the National Police and another 2150 places for the Civil Guard as part of the planning being carried out by the Ministry of the Interior to reverse the downsizing that occurred as a result of the cuts of the previous administration of the People's Party. This offer, moreover, is not new, this is an offer that comes after last year with the creation of 2606 new places for the National Police and 2275 new places for the Civil Guard. In 2019, 1004 positions were also called for officials in prison institutions, i.e. 2.8% more than in 2018. And this government has fulfilled the commitment of wage equality between the Police and the Civil Guard, an equality that the traditional right promised and never fulfilled in its years of government. You, Mr. candidate, did, on the other hand, endanger the security of the Spaniards and I will explain myself. Because the far right what he did during this state of alarm and during the confinement is to encourage people to manifest on the street, putting at risk the health of protesters and, consequently, also the health of the State Security Forces and Bodies. You, Mr Abascal, candidature and what you represent, are not interested in the headship of the State, nor are you interested in parliamentary control, nor are you interested in the State Security Forces and Corpses, but you are interested in making noise and attracting attention with that noise to spread a message of hatred and resentment which, you see, on a day like today and now, Mr candidature, does not shut up. Fourth reason. You say that there is an alleged unconstitutional curtailment of the rights and freedoms of the Spanish people. I've already spoken to you before freedom as understood by that U.S. landowner right in central London. But what freedom are you talking about, Mr. Candidate? The freedom to have a half-night play in the middle of the pandemic? The freedom to dispense with the mask or other protective measures? Freedom of movement without restrictions in the full spread of the epidemic? Look, one of the falsehoods that you have repeatedly repeated, together with Mr Casado, not only in Spain but in Europe, is that the decree of the state of alarm what he has done has been to put at risk the freedom in our country, little less than to open the door to a constitutional dictatorship, came to say some of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. What I say to the People's Party and to the far right is that in order to be free, first of all, what has to be is alive; and in order to preserve freedom, ladies and gentlemen, health must be protected. [[applause]] The Government has established restrictions on mobility and assembly because the spread of the virus is curbed precisely by limiting these fundamental rights, and the same is being done by the autonomous communities, the autonomous governments. Or is it that in the case of Madrid restricting mobility and meetings in the district of Usera is fine, but is it fatal if we do it on Núñez de Balboa Street? [[Applauds]] Look, in France, in Italy, in Britain, they declared the state of alarm like us in the first wave, Mr. candidate and Mr. Casado; they continue, like Spain, to extend the measures and restrictions in this second wave and, therefore, I ask you, Mr. candidate, whether this Jewish-masonic, social-communist and mature-masonic conspiracy has already been imposed throughout Europe and not only in Spain. And also in Colombia, in Uruguay in Israel with the confinements they are doing? I no longer mention China, which we already know what you think, Mr. Candidate. All of this is caused by a virus that we'll see if it hasn't been created maliciously. Mr. candidate, the painful thing is that VOX's motion captures at this point the same accusations made by Mr. Married in Congress regarding the second extension of the state of alarm, saying that in our country there was a hidden state of emergency; that is what you came to say, Mr. Married. If there had been a hidden or discovered state of emergency, it would not have been possible to produce demonstrations like those that you promoted in the Salamanca neighborhood of Madrid - where, by the way, you paraded with a few discovered cars - or the mobilizations that you organized on 23 May or last 12 October throughout Spain. You also accuse us of attacking the ideological, religious and religious freedom recognized in article 16 of the Constitution, but there was never anything like it. The sanitary closure of places of worship - I had the opportunity to speak with the president of the Episcopal Conference - did not at any time prevent religious freedom, of course not, ladies and gentlemen, of course not. As neither the closing of libraries prevents reading or the closing of restaurants prevents eating. [[Applauds]] We are accused of attacking the right to education, to freedom of education, recognized in article 27 of the Constitution, and the Government has done precisely what it has done to guarantee those rights. Since March 30, 23,000 Internet access cards, 2400 tablets and 1000 smartphones have been distributed to Education Councillors precisely for students who do not have access to these technologies. Once the state of alarm has been completed, new aid has been granted - as I said earlier - of EUR 3 billion. Even we are accused of attacking the right to work, article 35 of the Constitution, but they have stood against the workers of this country by refusing to validate all the real decrees that the Government presented precisely to guarantee and protect the present and future of companies and employment in our country. So, Mr. candidate, we already know that you have no solution; for the real, for the real problems of citizenship you have no solution. However, they have an infinite capacity to invent problems that do not exist and also to make us waste an extraordinary amount of time devoting ourselves to answering all their questions. Mr Abascal, candidate, I do not want to miss the opportunity to respond to the fifth motivation of your motion of censure, which is that alleged corruption linked to narco-dictations and totalitarian regimes. Another imaginary problem. Finally, this is a government that has - I told Mr. Married - neither prosecuted nor convicted in contrast to the previous governments of the People's Party, with seven prosecutors, three of them convicted, two of them serving their sentences. Mr. Candidate, are we talking about the Community of Madrid? Or do we talk, for example, about Andalusia? Do you think we should talk about Andalusia? Let's talk about Andalucia, the famous judge Serrano, who first was allegedly pocketed 2.5 million euros of subsidy by falsifying information and then lent that money to a promoter arrested for laundering; that is called, Mr.Abascal, being at the forefront of corruption, even if it is in his favor. On the city of Madrid, if that, that Mrs Monastery and Mr Espinosa de los Monteros tell you how the licensing and architecture works. [[Applauds]] And since we are, I remind you that you have been the only party that has voted against the new Code of Conduct of the General Courts, refusing to make public the meetings that you hold with lobbies, with private interest groups, to declare the economic interests of the last five years or even to declare, Mr Abascal, that house which seems to have been bought but which you have not declared in the register of property of your lordship in the Congress of Deputies. The sixth reason is the bankruptcy that you say is occurring from the national agreement and the delegitimization of the Spanish Transition. The truth is, it's especially hurtful coming from you. There is a democratic Spain, Mr Abascal, which I am proud of. It is that Spain with people very diverse, different, completely different, from right, from left, independentist, nationalist, with almost antagonistic ideological traditions, but that respects democracy, the Spanish democratic tradition, that liberal Spain that started in the Cortes de Cádiz more than two centuries ago. That is Spain of the Transition, Spain of the Concordia, Spain of the embrace, Spain of the inclusion. The other Spain, ladies and gentlemen, which you represent, is Franchise Spain. But what's left? Is there any franchisee left in this House, Mr. Abascal? Is there anyone who claims the four-decade dictatorship that plunged Spain into economic underdevelopment, repression and intolerance? In the transition to no one in this Parliament, it went through his head to claim Francoism, except for Blas Piñar. Even former Franco ministers who held parliamentary seats denied dictator Franco. Spain's imposition, Mr. candidate, and intransigence ended with the Constitution. The law of democratic memory does not recover any wounds, none, except for those who believe that the dead are better off in the gutters or that the dictator deserves tribute. [[Applauds]] Civic education includes democratic memory. Let us talk about what is happening in other countries that have also suffered from fascism. In Germany, for example, holocaust and Nazism are part of the history programme in all German states, with freedom of configuration on the part of teachers and with a pedagogical approach of critical reflection to avoid precisely repeating that past. In other European countries anti-democratic advocacy is not allowed. For example, in Germany, parties that seek to eliminate the democratic liberal order are allowed to be illegalized. In France, organizations that promote discrimination and spread hatred and racial violence are illegal. In short, the law of democratic memory is adapted to the international concept of victim, Mr. candidate. And for equal recognition and reparation it precisely establishes the elaboration of a national census of victims of the Civil War and the dictatorship, as well as a day of commemoration of tribute to all those who were for political, ideological or religious reasons. I'm going to give you some data that I think they shake when they complain. The National High Court, a candidate for the presidency of the Government, recognized in 2008 that enforced disappearances in Spain from July 1936 to December 1951 amounted to 114,226 persons. Repeat, 114,226 people. In 2014, two United Nations missions visited Spain to report on our country's efforts to address the historical legacy of missing persons. The president of these missions stressed that the search for missing persons was an obligation of the State and issued forty-two recommendations urging - I quote textually - to establish a comprehensive policy to bring truth and justice to the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat again one thing which seems very obvious to me but which is no longer to be remembered, and that is that the only two parties that supported the 1978 Constitution in the Constituent Courts and maintain parliamentary representation today are in this coalition government, the Socialist Party and the Communist Party of Spain. [[Applauds]] We, Mr. candidate, have a hundred and forty years of history, our own history; we have known the whole history of Spain: that of dictatorship, that of exile, the restoration of freedoms. We're no better than anyone, not worse. There have also been other political organizations, such as the Basque Nationalist Party or the Republican Left, which have also fought for the freedoms and democracy of their peoples. [[One honourable Member: Democracy of the peoples!-Laughter]] I don't know why they laugh; it's the truth, it's the truth. Look, in the City Hall of Madrid VOX has managed to convince the People's Party and, also, that supposed liberal party, Citizens, to remove the name to the streets of Indalecio Prieto and Francisco Largo Caballero, removing a plaque to hammers that the City Hall of Madrid put unanimously thirty-nine years ago - and I would like to emphasize it, unanimously - from all the municipal groups then in tribute to these two historical and political references of our country. Where's the change then, ladies and gentlemen? How is it possible that today streets are removed with names of people who managed to summon the unanimity of the City of Madrid thirty-nine years ago? [[Applauds]] Because then the change, ladies and gentlemen, is in which Force Nueva had no representation in the City Hall of Madrid and you had not yet appeared and, therefore, the People's Party had not yet seconded you. That is the great and sad difference between the People's Party of the day and the People's Party of today. Mr. candidate, six reasons for the motion of censure as hollow and as false as your patriotism. Patriotism - I told you in my first intervention - is not to confront the Spaniards; patriotism is not to utter insults and encourage civil discord, as you do; patriotism is to defend the life, the health of the compatriots, to defend the public services of the Spaniards, to protect even more the compatriots who need state aid. And in his six motives there is no apex of a true drop of patriotism. I finish, and I do so by addressing again the leader of the People's Party, Mr. Married. Mr Casado, the traditional right has a rational space in Europe and in Spain, has it. I'm asking you to attend to what I'm going to tell you. Look, we have differences; we even have many big differences. We can disagree on many matters, as we do, and I think we can also reach agreements on other matters. I believe that the key lies in the respect and recognition of the adversary. I see you as a political adversary, never as a political enemy. If you think so too, Mr Casado, I shall vote no to this motion of censure. On the other hand, I can assure you that you will find most of the seats in this House. Cross that bridge, vote no, and if you do that, I think we can meet. And, from that gesture, we can contribute to the necessary understanding that society is asking of all public representatives. Of course, differences will persist, the huge differences that we have between the different parties that we represent, and so it must happen in democracy, that's the normal thing. But we can express them and guide them with respect, from our backs to the sound that provokes the fury and hatred of the far right. Spain, Mr Casado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is a great democracy and, as such, needs a right as conservative as it wants to be, as conservative as it wants to be, but committed to coexistence, the Constitution and the proper functioning of democratic institutions. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of the United Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, of other parliamentary groups and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[VOX Parliamentary Group applause, some of which are on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u20	Mr President, in your second speech you have now broken the motivation of our motion of censure divided into six points, and you have done so because it needed to be extended; I was determined not to release the rostrum until the television news was finished, such is the pleasure that you took to those absolutely endless programs of Aló President, whom you so much enjoyed during the pandemic. I see you have investigated me conscientiously, I hope it is only documentary and in no other way. He has accused me here of saying that the monarchy for me serves the unity of Spain. For I inform you of what our Constitution says, Mr Sánchez, article 56: 'The King is the Head of State, symbol of his unity and permanence...' The monarchy serves the unity of Spain; without unity of Spain there is no monarchy, Mr Sánchez. But, in addition to making me feel bad about old statements or old intellectual analyses about the meaning of the Crown, have you drawn attention to your partner in government for the caceroladas driven against the Crown in the middle of the epidemic? Have you called your attention to perjure the office by saying that you were going to be loyal to the king when you did the opposite? Have you drawn your attention by putting forward a referendum on the continuity of the Crown? Did he or didn't he? He hasn't and, of course, he won't. [[Applauds]] I've seen that you also resent the criminal appeal, justifies it in the hatred we have and in these things that he says all the time, and I see that you're still in plan little capillaries reading to us here the Pope's encyclical. When you go to Rome - tomorrow, I think, tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow - please tell the pope what you think of abortion and euthanasia, because you probably tell him that that is criminal, because that is what Bergoglio thinks of abortion and euthanasia, which is a crime. Do it. He won't either. He's come up to the rostrum to say that VOX opposes the system. What system? The one that you control the judges? That you decide who all the members of the General Council of the Judiciary are? That you partyically enter all state institutions, the CNI, in which you use the Civil Guard and the Police to monitor the opposition's work in the networks? Is that the system we oppose? Yes, of course we are opposed to a system that clearly has an anti-democratic character. [[Applauds]] He has continued to repeat lies and mantras about VOX and an alleged hatred of women and homosexuals. Look, I'm not even gonna answer him. There are thousands and thousands of homosexuals and thousands and thousands of women who are listening to us and who agree with us and not with you, and that is and will continue to be so. [[Applauds]] And it is true that some will have been confused with the way in which you permanently twist our messages and our positions, but little by little you will listen to us, the truth of our words will come and we will convince many more; have no doubt. You've come up now to explain why you've made a deal with etarras. I asked him to give explanations, but I didn't ask him to explain why he has made a deal with etarras, coup separatists and communists. I asked him to explain why he lied, because indeed in other electoral processes - and it always happens - there are many debates between political forces, and some of the other things we say that can sometimes turn out to be thick, or that we should not have said, or that strategically they were not convenient, and then, despite that, we are forced to agree that there are majorities; we have done so in different regions. But we didn't ask you that, we asked you to explain why you lied, because you didn't describe these gentlemen in a very bitter way - you did it -; you said you wouldn't deal with them and said, "What do you want, say it once, two, three, four, five, six?" He walked through all the televisions, through all the radios, saying that he would not deal with them, nor with them, nor with them, and you have agreed with all of them. [[pointing out to the parliamentary groups that support the coalition government]] Which is why I'm asking you to come up here and tell us why you lied, not because you didn't have an alternative majority and you were forced to deal with those you don't agree with at all, because we already know that, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] That is the electoral fraud to which we refer. Then you said all the time - when something is repeated too much, suspect -: With all due respect, Mr. Abascal... In that too you lie: you have no respect for me because you do not respect anything; you do not respect either yourself or your own word or the voters you represent. [[Applauds]] You've tried, in that very thorough investigation that you've made of my past, that I'm ashamed of some decisions that I personally made many years ago. Yeah, he's trying to do it, and I'm coming to claim them. You said I didn't want to go after a banner that said 'There is no more homeland than humanity'. Of course. I did not go after a banner that said 'There is no more homeland than humanity' and I will never go after a banner that says 'There is no more homeland than humanity' because my homeland is Spain, Mr Sánchez. I don't know what yours is. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] He says we are the best allies of the worst separatists. I think you have called them the most retrograde or recalcitrant separatists; more recalcitrant you have said exactly, because I like to be precise with what you say: I will not do what you do to me. Who exactly do you mean by everyone here? Who of all who are here are our allies? Because it gives me the impression that you are not going to vote for the candidacy that we are presenting today, but you are going to support it, which is what is going to happen, so don't throw me on top of your own allies, Mr Sánchez, because if you were so convinced of what they say and every now and then you say - that VOX is a separatist factory - you have no doubt that to do harm what you would do is to support this investiture. Allies, by the way, here and in the Basque Parliament, where your party, with Bildu, with the PNV and with Podemos, has decided to apply an unconstitutional health cordon, which we have resorted to in the Constitutional Court, against our deputy Amaya Fernández, brutally restricting her time of intervention. Those are his allies. And you join all those against us because you think those are better than us. And here I use my own arguments again. [[Reporting to various parliamentary groups]] Today, Mr Sánchez, here, with all your palm trees applauding your achievements and even what you fail to achieve - applaud everything - you will remain in power. You have explained the goodness of your health, economic management, in all orders, and have even dared to talk about the mismanagement of other countries because you really like to throw balls out. How long have you not been on the street? Are you able to go to the street, go to a bar, go to a restaurant, walk through a market, go to a factory, go to an industrial estate, go to a hospital? Are you able to talk outside of a closed meeting with the Spaniards on the street? Are you able to say all the things you're saying here on the street? No, no, You haven't stepped on the street in a long time, you don't go to neighborhoods, you don't go to villages and you don't talk to people, and you know it. [[Applauds]] Let me conclude with two questions. In that final intervention tailor drawer that you artificially elongated to occupy the newspapers you have spoken of corruption and you have dared to speak of Andalusia, you have mentioned a person who is no longer in VOX and you have attacked people with names and surnames for alleged corruption or irregularities. Who has not allegedly spent the money of Andalusians on lupanares and cocaine? It wasn't us, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] And I'll tell you something else. He has come here to confront us with the closure of the Madrid Assembly. The closure of the Madrid Assembly that you intend to impute to us is appealed to the Constitutional Court by VOX, as is the state of emergency that you imposed on us. And the Constitutional Court has not been well advised to answer, perhaps because it is not acting as a truly independent court. [[Rumors]] But if you name it, if the judges call it progressive and conservative! We do not propose the removal of the Constitutional Court, we propose that there be a chamber of constitutional affairs in the Supreme Court and that judges and only judges can decide on constitutional matters and not the gentlemen you sit there to give you reason, to legalize those others, to bring the contrary to the Supreme Court and to pay the favors. [[pointing out some seats]] [[Applauds]] Don't think about it, Mr. Sánchez, don't think about what's exclusively your responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u21	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the suspension of the plenary session, a recess and resume the sitting at 4 p.m. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended at three and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u22	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the speaking times of the parliamentary groups. We started with the interventions of the formations integrated in the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr Gimeno has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my first words in this speech are directly to say that we are going to vote against the motion of censure. We will vote against because we are a group of voters representing a citizen movement built from an absolute respect for democratic forms, representing a large group of people of different sensibilities but united in a joint venture to dignify the future of the province of Teruel, historically postponed by polarized development policies. Our origin, arising from free and plural assemblies, meetings of responsible citizens who question the causes of the backwardness of their land, their people and their city is a substantial element in our identity and in our political action. Being part of these social realities is what allows us to understand that Spain is a complex, plural country, with a multitude of common projects, with many community stories overflowing, which cannot be reduced to the simplifying ideological archetype that you claim to defend and impose. Spain is a country of fractures. We are here for one of those historical fractures, on horseback from the great trauma of the accelerated emigration of the sixties, which left a demographic desert in the interior provinces, Spain that we today call emptied Spain, almost a country within our country. Teruel Existe represents the demands for quality services and for a true vertebration and cohesion of the national territory. Both during the electoral campaign and in the programme we said that we would support the governability of Spain, a governability in principle necessary to reverse the territorial and social imbalances that have proved essential in recent months, when a pandemic plagues the whole world. Teruel There is, gentlemen, he is not here for a few crumbs or a currusc, and, although it is true that our economic demands are easily assumed by a strong state such as ours, it is also that there has been historically no political will to do so. What we're talking about, what we're talking about, it's not about crumbs, it's about equity, it's about social justice and it's about rights, although it's also necessarily about economic funds and budgets. We are here for the just claim of many people who want to be citizens with the same rights, who want to be equal Spaniards versus equals. We are voting against because our vision of citizens on foot, our diagnosis of the situation in Spain, drawn up with daily contact with the problems of small entrepreneurs, agricultural cooperatives, farmers and farmers, entrepreneurs, workers, families, students, rural women, the real reality of the citizens that we face every day, not mediated by exclusively ideological objectives, does not correspond in any of its extremes with the parameters of the society and economy that you have presented today. We vote against it because, as a prestigious journalist said these days, it is time to stop the barren confrontation and restore confidence to society. Citizens, believe me, are distressed, they are concerned about the insecurity caused by the COVID-19 and the economic crisis that plagues us; they are alarmed by the problems in primary care centres and hospitals, by the obvious lack of sufficient tracking and diagnostic tests; they are concerned about the problems in schools and universities; they are concerned about the ERTE and distressed by the growth of unemployment; they are alarmed by the crisis in specific sectors such as hospitality, trade, tourism or cultural activities; they are concerned, for example, about the situation of the Polish Bishop's Hospital in Teruel, where the ICU is full - it is not difficult to fill it because it has only six beds - and only 57% of the medical staff are available, who are warning that they will not be able to cover the 24 hours of this service, thus denouncing the structural fragility of the health that has been called peripheral. We are here for the just claim of many people who want to be citizens with the same rights. And these concerns are not based on sophisms, they are not inventions, they arise from realities, they arise from problems that already require solutions, solutions to build a country budget for 2021, a budget agreed from both its origin and in the processing; political solutions that we understand in the form of attitudes and a parliamentary action carried out with the aim of reaching consensus. They are citizens who need a negotiating Parliament to implement the European funds or to implement the motion adopted in June 2020 against depopulation. In short, neither the problems coincide with their electoral strategies nor with the timetables for the political opportunity of the moment. Neither the real solutions for Teruel nor for Aragon nor for emptied Spain and depopulation are in its proposals. That is why we have no other way out but to vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u24	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr Abascal Conde, candidate for the Presidency of the Government. Almost a year ago the Spaniards prepared to hold general elections after the failed XIII Legislature in the face of Pedro Sánchez's inability to form government, the same Pedro Sánchez who had coined that of 'no is no' and had dragged the Spaniards in 2016 to another regrettable electoral repetition, the same Pedro Sánchez who today complains of blockades and recriminate the opposition for not lending himself to rinsing in the renewal of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, Forum signed on 30 September 2019 and deposited with the Electoral Board the coalition pact with the People's Party, which includes the commitment to support Don Pablo Casado Blanco as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government, so I cannot support the motion of censure unilaterally submitted by VOX, whose requirements are those set out in article 113 of the Constitution, with a candidate for the Presidency of the Government proposed without prior consultation. [[shows a document]] [[Applauds]] Mr Abascal, in a motion of constructive censorship they are not enough to vote for their coincidences with our analysis and judgment about the poor management of the PSOE and Podemos government, supported by the Catalan and Basque secessionists, such as, for example, the reduction of freedoms and the bankruptcy of the rule of law, with an attack on our main symbols and the Constitution, which the Spaniards overwhelmingly support in 1978 and which led to a model process of transition towards democracy that has been the object of world admiration. The Executive's contempt for judicial independence and the rules of the European Union are also intolerable. I sympathize with the diagnosis of the collapse of the economy to which this multi-government has led Spain, which presents a world record drop in GDP, a crazy rise in unemployment and an insurmountable growth in debt. Nor is there any doubt that the reconstruction plan, replaced by an advertising and propaganda plan of 800,000 fictitious jobs, is a work of Mr.Iván Redondo's creative factory and his fantasies animated and manipulated. I identify myself with his observations on the marginalization and scarring of support for the business fabric of tourism, hospitality, services, automotive, SMEs and industry, among others, and I note that, in fact, not one of the main solutions for Spain has been undertaken in this first year of government, which, parapeted after the coronavirus, will be relegated or, worse, forgotten. What about the irresponsible management of the first and second waves of the COVID-19 pandemic that we have not already denounced from this rostrum. And I also disagree that Mr Sánchez and his blue bank have encouraged inequalities between Spanish and autonomous communities with obvious privileges for Catalonia in exchange for independence support and unacceptable penalties, among others, for Asturias and the Asturians. Ladies and gentlemen, with such a bag, the most devastating of those harvested by all our democratic governments, there are grounds for censorship towards Pedro Sánchez, but there is a lack of an alternative government programme, such as the one we have drawn up since Forum in our coalition agreement with the People's Party, with specific measures to tackle the emergencies in Asturias and to boost Spain's major priorities. Mr. candidate, in line with that diaphanous pact, with that good programme and with which I would be the best President of the Government for us, Mr. Casado, I will not support the motion that you and your parliamentary group propose. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u27	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Abascal, you don't know the street, you must not know what people think about what is happening here today. You probably only listen to your hooligans, because what you are doing is wasting all of us, the citizens, the government, all of the Members who are here. I do not know if they have added the number of initiatives we have pending, the number of laws, proposals for laws, presentations, are hundreds, and all this does is further delay the work that we really have to do. I know you work here - I know because I see you, I don't deny that - but don't you have enough opposition in this rostrum and in the commissions every week? Because today we've been told the same thing, nothing new. And if we Members are tired of always hearing the same thing from everyone, imagine the citizens. Of course, there is a lot of criticism of this government - no one denies it - but this does not contribute anything today. Moreover, we believe that you are making a torturing use of the Constitution. The motion of censure is designed constructively. There must be an alternative, it is not intended for this, because you have fifty-two Members, 15% of this House, and no allies. They're not an alternative, they're totally alone. Then, this is wasting time. Actually, besides wasting time, it's a provocation. And it's one more provocation, because you don't have to insult. You provoke almost every week. Some of your spokespersons just come out, for example, start by calling Mrs Batet, Madam President. What's the point of this? Once it's funny, but it already smells when it's repeated constantly. [[Applauds]] This does not help to improve the country, much less, but to criticize it, and it is clear that I very much respect its voters and many of the Members here, who are honourable people, as respectable as all others, and have also been elected as the rest of us here. The problem lies in the leaders, in the leaders. If you were to lead the government, I think you would be a public danger, because, despite what you have said here today, you have a sectarian vision of Spain, and these sectarian visions of good and bad already know how they end. And, of course, never, never end up with immediate elections, as you have promised. In the Regionalist Party of Cantabria we are in the antipodes of their position. They've never wanted the state of autonomy. If it were for you, Cantabria would disappear and rejoin us in Castile and León and call us the province of Santander, as we were calling ourselves for one hundred and fifty years, although we have history with that name from the Romans, the Visigoths and 1776, when the province of Cantabria was created. Good thing democracy came and a name that we should never have lost could be recovered. We can discuss the distribution of competences, the management of public health, but there are things that can't even be discussed, and they are the own and exclusive interests that we have, each and every one of those who want to take away those who don't like freedom very much. Besides, there's another reason. You are responsible for the falsehoods and exaggerations that are spreading around about the cost of a decentralized state. You have burned down Article 2 of the Constitution, which says that it is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. Apart from the anachronisticness of this wording, which sounds like eternal and sacred, they never appeal to the social, they always appeal to the territorial, and I think it's time we didn't consider these things sacred. Neither do you like democracy and have much of the bubbles running around about politicians, the discredit of the political class, the number of those, what they cost, what they earn. This is another kind of anti-system, in which they also coincide with others of different signs. It is curious that you in your speeches always use the word freedom a lot - you are paradoxes of politics - and it is a perversion of language, because precisely you, even though you do not recognize it here today, are Franco's greatest defenders, who suppressed freedoms in Spain for forty years. [[Rumors]] Precisely, this lack of freedom was the main factor that brought democracy to a successful conclusion and brought an end to the Franco regime. And now they want to be built into the courage of the Transition, but no one believes it. Anyway, I don't think you need me to tell you what I'm going to vote for. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u28	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Abascal, you don't want to be president with the votes of Bildu and Esquerra, do you? Well, as President Sánchez would say with the prosecution: There it is! It's just that we're the same as in January, this hasn't changed. It's just that now there hasn't been an election, it's that we're the same, and therefore the votes are the votes. And what can't be said in any case - we are not going to admit it, among other things because we have a lot of respect for the four million people who voted for them and we are asking for respect for those who voted for us - is that those of us who voted against this motion of censure are in favour of the Sánchez government or are going in the hands of the Bildu people. We're not going to allow that to anyone, so let's be clear. [[Applauds]] From there, this is a motion of censure, not a question of trust. On a question of confidence we would vote no, of course. The president doesn't dare bring here a question of trust, because then he can have votes against. And there we would vote that no, as we voted not in the investiture, because, apart from all the reasons that led us to vote not in the investiture, we have added the disastrous management in the pandemic, because it is the worst country in the world managing the pandemic. It is said that it is an example to follow a person who told us that there would be one or two cases, that no masks were to be worn and that every time he talks about the dead he laughs. That's what we have as an example! Of course, there are reasons to vote no, but this is a motion of censure, and a motion of censure has two characteristics: a candidate and a program. We - everyone knows it, and Mr Martínez Oblanca has also said it - have an agreement with the People's and Citizens' Party. Our candidates for the Presidency of the Government of Spain are Mr Casado or Mrs Arrimadas, of course. We, the Union of the Navarro People, have been here since 1979 and we always fulfil our commitments, and that is our commitment. With regard to the programme - I am not going to enter all of it because it is impossible, I do not have time - I am going to say that we are outlawists and regionalists, and therefore we are not centralists, and we are strong defenders of the autonomous state, which, with its shortcomings, we believe has been fundamental to the development of Spain. And there's the show. Obviously, if you want to bring an alternative application, you have to agree beforehand before submitting it, which is what Sanchez did. Sanchez, what did you do? Ask, see what people wanted around here. We can say: I want armchairs and stalls; armchairs and stalls. Left: the Bureau and the pardons; the Bureau and the pardons. The PNV: I want to rule in Navarre; okay, we put ours and you rule. Euskal Herria Bildu: whitening, rapprochement of prisoners - prisoners, the more murderers they have been and the less repentant they are, the closer they are - and, in addition, being able to pay tribute to terrorists; pact with Bildu. That's what the president agreed to. And what have they done? Agree on what unites them. And what unites them? Weaken Spain. And how do they weaken Spain? From the Head of State to justice and Europe right now, do everything in common and weaken Spain, because by power it can weaken Spain. And what do Esquerra and Bildu do? They are delighted, because the weaker Spain is, the easier it will be for them to have their political projects, such as independence. Does anyone have any doubt that if on 1 October famous Navarre had been integrated into the Basque Autonomous Community there would not have been a simultaneous 1 October in Catalonia and the Basque Autonomous Community? That is obvious, that no one should think that they have given up. For starters, they themselves every time they come out here say they're never going to give up their principles, and therefore that's their goal. So what's to be done? To agree on what unites us to win electorally. That's what we have to do, agree. And what brings us together a few? Freedom, of course, as a fundamental principle, unites us. Democracy as a fundamental principle; true democracy, not that democracy of some who have many years of history but do not dare to argue with a group that comes new to a Parliament. But where has that been seen, who dare not argue with you? I am light years away from many of those who are here, but, of course, debate, when and what it takes; delighted to debate. That's what we're here for, to discuss. How can you say I don't want to argue with these? I was surprised, I thought Mr. Rufian wasn't like that. I think he's the one who likes to discuss, and I'm surprised he doesn't want to discuss with VOX. I am saying this as I am sorry, because I believe that the debate is fundamental and that we are elected to debate. How are we going to give up the debate? So, what unites us. And what brings us together too? Of course, we want Spain to be a great country, but a great country in which everyone is proud of their people, of their city, of the street, of their neighbours, of everything that surrounds them, of their autonomous community, in our case the Foral Community of Navarra, because we understand that there is nothing better, no better way to be Spanish than to be Navarra, because we believe that Navarra is not understood without Spain and that Spain is not understood without Navarra, but we also join the common project of Spain, and we want that common project of Spain we can do among all of them in solidarity, for all of us who believe that Spain is a great country. For that, what will be done? To agree on what unites us so that we can win in the next elections to those who want to weaken Spain. I am convinced that if we do that in the next elections in Spain it will govern the centreright. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Candidate, good afternoon. With what is currently falling into the Spanish State, it is difficult to believe that an initiative such as that which you have brought here today deserves even an elementary legitimacy, because for something to be legitimate it must have legitimate purposes and the end of a motion of censure is to replace the Government with another Government resulting from the motion of censure, and in this case that is not the end. The end will in any case be to try to improve their political position at the cost of getting the first party of the opposition, the People's Party, into trouble. That's the reason, it's obvious, you don't have to go around that a lot. In addition, there is a set of statements that you make that force me to do an exercise to try to understand what you are, because, if we listen to the language, there start to be tremendous doubts, it must be that of creating alternative facts, that of Mr Bannon, who I will tell you later. If a party believes that the Thirteen Roses were murderous and also rapist, and members of that party also believe that the politicians elected in free elections in the Republic were murderers and that who gave a coup d'état and had us forty years in the dark and isolated from the rest of Europe was a liberator, and if you also think that this government is illegitimate, coup and I don't know how many more things, there is only one conclusion: you are fascists. [[Applauds]] You're fascists, but what is this? This is the reverse world. Here the totalitarians, if you don't mind, it's you. [[Mr. Abascal Conde pronounces words that are not perceived]] Well, I'm glad you recognize him. Of course you are the totalitarians! Moreover, you consider this to be so reasonable of the blows that one would come to think that if you could - that you would not be able - you would strike a blow, because this language is civilistic. This language you use is protogolpist and is therefore unacceptable to democrats. [[Applauds]] The only advantage of this today is that you have had a very long time to tell us what you think of the future and the present, which is enough to put your hair at the top. But there is a very striking question: the Chinese pandemic. I mean, since I'm a doctor and I've devoted myself to this public health thing... If the dystopia occurred that you came to the government, the first thing you would do would be to declare war on China. [[Applauds]] What do you mean, the Chinese pandemic? That language of Mr. Trump, please! Mr Trump is going to go very badly; you should learn, in the American elections he will go very badly. This is what you call building alternative facts. We take history, we twist it, we turn it into something else, and then we're in your policy. On the other hand, as a representative of a Canarian party, a non-independence nationalist party, a sovereignist party, a fully democratic party. I'm going to tell you one thing: it puts your hair at the top of your head to hear you guys talk. Do you know what happened before the state of autonomy in the Canary Islands? The abandonment, the insensitivity, the misery, the poverty, the colonial treatment that some printed, that of going to the overseas territories to visit us. That is what you propose to us if the terrible dystopia of your coming to the government occurred. So, I guess you're already imagining that we're going to vote no, in capital letters, on this issue. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u32	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. [[Pause.-A lady from the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, politics in Spain has ended up being useless. Today we are in this Congress spending the Spanish tax money in a debate that leads nowhere and, worst of all, we all know that. I don't know who said the best mirror to see ourselves is knowing who our opponents are. Some time ago this Member was insulted by the radical left for not supporting an investiture of a left-wing government. This week I have been receiving the same insults, from the extreme right, because I am not prepared to support a motion of censure against this left-wing government. Do you know why this is happening, ladies and gentlemen? Because we've turned this country into a land of fanatics. We are facing one of the biggest crises in Europe's history, perhaps the biggest after World War II. And what are we doing? This, that is, nothing. We are killing ourselves as a country, we are weakening ourselves as a society and we are betraying our children and grandchildren. What moves us is not an effort for construction. The scarce political talent is dedicated to destruction and manipulation. Spain is, as Azaña said, a demolition company. Mr Sánchez - even if I am not - I have not come today to talk about this motion of censure, which is pure theatre, a motion that we are going to vote against. It seems to me that it is much more important that in this Congress we talk about the problems of Spain, about the poverty of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, today our country is facing very serious problems that endanger the future of millions of people. In places like the Canary Islands we are sitting on a social dustbin, we are causing the breakdown of the state. We have driven the Spaniards away and crippled and managed to weaken and impoverish society, the self-employed, SMEs and families. Instead of working to overcome adversities and get ahead, we are wasting time searching for what separates us. The extremists have done so with power in Spain and have done so because you rely on them, Mr Casado, and you too, Mr Sánchez. There are those who want independence; there are those who want to turn us into a Bolivarian republic; there are those who want to end autonomy by installing authoritarian centralism; there are them on one side and on the other, but they all look like one thing, in which they want to exterminate those who do not think like them. What he commands today in Spain is populism and demagogy, because no one thinks of all those people who are out there working, suffering, worried about their future and that of their children. The real censure is not going to be presented to Mr Sánchez by any group in this House. The real motion of censure is going to put hundreds of thousands of families who are losing their savings and hopes as we remain blind and deaf here. They said these weeks that Spain is a failed state. Ladies and gentlemen, we are failing Spain. It's time to stop and listen to us, listen to us, before it's too late. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u35	Good afternoon. The gentlemen of VOX have gone to present the motion of censure in a week that has already begun badly for them, since the coup government of Bolivia - that is a coup, not what you distort with the word -, that coup government with which you were involved as the most, has suffered a defeat, a sound electoral beating at the hands of the movement of socialism. [[Applauds]] They're back and there's millions of them. And speaking of coups d'état, of the real ones, we are presented today in the form of a motion of censure, which one day was presented to us as a coup d'état, and the shots from the ceiling show off. Tjero, with the same argumental thread with which you presented your motion of censure today, defended your coup d'état. I read his words, those of Tejero: The 23-F intended to achieve a change of government that guaranteed the unity of the homeland damaged by the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy that President Suárez granted to Catalonia and Vascongadas. - The same argumental thread. Therefore, VOX is a problem for democracy and for the rights achieved, but today has been a gift for you, because it allows you to defend very basic issues and align with you many parties without having to face the crisis of the 1978 regime. We cannot agree that VOX is an isolated problem or just that it is the core of the problem. The problem of the Spanish state is the continuity that took place with the Franco dictatorship, in addition to the inequalities peculiar to any capitalist country. There are a number of elements that tell us when a society has a drift towards authoritarian or fascist regimes: an increase in the aggressions of the extreme right, police and army corporatism, an shielding of inequalities in the face of equal struggles and discourses, the increase of racism and xenophobia and the exaltation of state nationalism. Are these questions that only represent VOX today? No, no, Does VOX represent them? Yeah. But just them? No, no, They are the tip of an iceberg, they are mentality very embedded in the social and political powers of the state. I'll give you some examples. The first question, assaults from the far right. They exist, and when the Catalan people's struggle to vote has increased, they have made them even wider. If not, review the Civil Rights and Politics office figures. The majority of political aggressions that take place in Catalonia are the result of the extreme right. The second issue, military and police corporatism, they want to gain more political weight. Is that a question that represents VOX? Yeah. Just VOX? No, no, For example, military spending. Why doesn't anyone talk about lowering military spending even in pandemic times? Or the police issue. In the police they are gaining weight the most radical, most extremist unions, which even harassed one of our deputies, Mrs Laura Borràs. Is this a union that supports VOX? Yeah. Did VOX create it? No, no, It was precisely citizens who encouraged that union to gain weight. How are the cops not going to feel unpunished with the assaults that took place on October 1 if none of the big parties here asked for explanations? The PSOE did it on the morning of October 1, but quickly withdrew it. Thirdly, the shielding of inequalities. The responsibilities are the cuts, the bank bailout, article 135, which are the responsibility of the two major parties, but, beyond the parties, it is the class character of justice in the Spanish State; the sentences that, for example, have protected the banks with regard to the issue of mortgages, or the one that last week itself protected educational concerts. What does VOX defend in terms of housing? Are those VOX's ideas? No, it is the agenda of the big forks; it is the agenda of the vulture funds, which brings us here the problem of the occupations without supporting it in empirical data, because it turns out that there are no more occupations, but that already places the problem of the occupations above the real problem of access to housing or that the rentals are by the clouds. Fourthly, an increase in racism is also what points to a society drifting towards authoritarianism. But when a part of our neighbours live in political secrecy, by which an administrative fault, such as jumping a traffic light, can involve him going to the CIE and being expelled to his country, when this exists, when this exceptionality is given, this apartheid, which maintains the Aliens Act, is not to facilitate the criminalizing discourse that the gentlemen of VOX have? What has the current government done with Minister Marlaska at the front? He hasn't shut down the detention centers. Moreover, a few days ago we had the news that Barcelona will again enable a space for women to be locked up. Nor has it suspended the hot returns, despite the fact that a good ear-drop of European justice has been carried, saying that this could not be done; and it has even raised the Melilla fence higher. That is the policy of this Government with regard to immigration. That's not what the pope says about immigration, raising the Melilla fence higher. [[Applauds]] All these practices, all these speeches, make it easier for someone to believe the imaginary of the invasion. And finally, the fifth and final question, State nationalism exacerbated. He has shown it in his motion; the reason leit is to deny us existence, to deny existence to the different. Well, now it seems that they do fear with this speech, but they have been given broad sleeves when they were only going against us; even, they used the trial at the Supreme Court as a platform, when no one knew them, to make themselves known; the trial against our political prisoners and prisoners. Who creates the image that independence is a crime and that, therefore, everything is legitimate against them; they with their heavy speech or all those who have asked for prison sentences for political prisoners, including the Law of the State, which depends on you? They or Pedro Sánchez who in the campaign said he would reintroduce the crime of referendum in the Penal Code? Who creates the climate for these extreme nationalists to call you traitors? Well, you've also put on your side. And this idea that the unity of Spain is above all, this dogma of faith that makes them clap loudly when they pronounce it, is present in their speeches, but not only; it is also present in the speeches of the chief head of the General Council of the Judiciary, who always says that the unity of Spain is above all; or it is present in the speech of the king, on October 3, and no one told him anything. On 3 October, the king was able to go out and say that for the unity of Spain everything is worth, even harassing the citizens. And since no one tells you anything, about those muds these dusts or I don't know if it's the other way around exactly. No one from the PSOE then raised the voice, no. Even a few days after this speech of the king, in the demonstration that took place in Barcelona, the PSOE, the PSC and VOX appeared together at the head. The photo of Columbus has, therefore, also a precedent that is less talked about. In conclusion, VOX is the symptom of the crisis of the state and capitalism; it is their authoritarian, exclusionary and classist exit to this crisis, and it bears the germ of fascism, but this germ does not represent it only them or those who will vote this motion, which seems to be they who will vote this motion; this germ of fascism is well present in the positions of social and political power of the regime of 78. If you want to fight VOX, and in that there are enough consensus and we are within that, what is to do is to disassemble the basic ideas of which you drink VOX. We must recover the idea of the necessary rupture with the continuity of Francoism, we must recover the idea with the rupture of the idea of the regime of 78. Against those who deny the existence of patriarchy, more feminism; against those who point to immigration as a source of problems, no person is illegal...;
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u36	Finish it, Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u37	I'm done, President. ...against aggressive and authoritarian Spanish nationalism, the self-determination of peoples. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u38	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u39	Good afternoon. Mr Martínez Oblanca and Mr Adanero, I must tell you that I deeply respect your approaches and even your vote - I deeply respect everything you have expressed in this rostrum - as we ask you to respect our approaches in voting in favour of this motion of censure and in presenting it. We know that they do, and I must also tell them that we respect - this seems important to me to point out - especially their concern for the provinces and the regions that you have always raised from loyalty to the common project of Spain and from the defense of the general interest compatible between the girl country and the big country. That's something we want to applaud. [[Applauds]] We also applaud you for keeping your pacts and not voting in favour of this motion of censure, because you have a pact with the gentlemen of the People's Party and citizens and the only candidates you can vote for are Mrs Arrimadas and Mr Casado; you are people of your word and that is something that must always be applauded. I do not applaud you, however, for saying that we defend centralism, because our criticism of the state of autonomy is not made from a centralist approach. Moreover, our profound criticism of the state of autonomy - and it has been done here today - has not only to do with the inequality that has brought Spaniards into the various territories, but also with the fact that in the multi-provincial autonomous communities - it is true that this is not the case with which you represent - micro-centralisms have been created that have drowned all the diversity of provinces and regions, with which, perhaps even in these approaches we are much closer than you can imagine, and we have a great deal of capacity for dialogue, as we have shown when we have had - with the votes that the citizens have given us, which have not been as many as we would like - to negotiate with other parties to form regional governments. We say that we understand your approach and we understand that you do not vote in favour of this motion of censure; we only ask you to understand that we have tabled this motion of censure for an obligation in conscience, because we understand that we are before the motion of censure with more reasons than they have been raised throughout democracy, because there was never a government throughout democracy that deserved a motion of censure with more intensity than the government we are cenrating today. [[Applauds]] We therefore respect your approaches and your vote, of course, and we also ask you to respect our approaches, our vote and our conviction that this motion of censure was urgent, necessary and absolutely justified. Mr. Mazón has come here to say that we are against freedoms and to call ourselves franchisors. Look, ask Mr.Revilla, who was a blue shirt and who was a Franco - a well-known and recognized Franco -; ask Mr.Revilla. [[Applauds]] Look, I was born in 1976 and neither you nor Mr.Revilla are going to give me any lesson in defending democracy, the Constitution or not having played us the type precisely defending the Constitution and democracy. I say this because I was a councillor at a City Hall, that of Llodio, where Mr.Revilla was also a candidate for the lists of Unidad Alavesa. The difference is that I was voted by the citizens of Llodio and was a councillor and Mr.Revilla did it from Santander as a gesture that we applauded, but don't come to us to teach us what it is to defend democracy and even less to label us, to say that we are against freedoms and to call ourselves franchisors. Then you said you respect VOX voters, but at the same time you said they are hooligans; you said it here literally. There are reasons for this motion of censure, Mr Mazón, and there are grounds for reproaching this Government, but it is clear that you need to justify, in some way, the support you have given this Government, and you need to do so even by saying that we are a public danger for our sectarian vision of Spain; and you say this, you have supported the Government that has received the support of those you have sitting before you. Look, I'm sorry. [[Applauds]] Mr. Quevedo, you've invented everything. It's clear he's following Sanchez's wake. He came here to call us fascists and to give himself the taste. You've already given it to him, but you've made it all up. You've followed Sanchez's stele, which is the one you support, and you've invented everything about us. You have said things that we do not say perhaps because you do not come very much for this Parliament. Moreover, he said: with which he is falling in the Spanish State! Look, the one that's falling isn't in the Spanish state, it's not under these roofs, in the ministries, in the public sector. The one that's falling in Spain, in the neighborhoods, in the shops, in the streets! But you say Spanish state because you are a nationalist and you can't say Spain either, and then you come here to tell us that you are a sovereignist but not an independentist. This explains it somewhere else where they understand you because here, of course, most of us don't understand you. [[Applauds]] He has dared to say that we bring a war-civilist language when he comes to support the government obsessed with historical memory laws, and even a coup language when he supports the government that has relied on those who have given a coup d'état in Catalonia. So get up here again; if you want, insult, but you are seriously missing the truth. Mr Guitarte, you say that the solutions for emptied Spain are not in our proposals. Did you also have it written, like Mr. Sanchez? Because I have spoken of some of them in a broad way, Mr. Guitarte. I want to tell you something. You think you are not aware of the wave of sympathy that your seat has awakened throughout Spain. Teruel Esté's seat was greeted with extraordinary sympathy in all the provinces of Spain because it represented that forgotten Spain that we spoke of today in this rostrum during our motion of censure. How quickly you wasted that sympathy, Mr. Guitarte, giving the trust of the Turolians to the government of lying, ruining and treason. How soon he wasted it. I do not know what they have promised you for the Turolenses - the broadband seems not, they have deceived you - but of course I do not believe that the Turolenses want anything from the government that has agreed with the heirs of ETA; most of the Turolenses do not want it. [[Applauds]] Mrs Oramas said that she was not going to talk about the motion, that she was going to talk about the problems of Spain, but at the same time she has spread to right hand and sinister, literally, and has placed herself in the middle. Stop playing equidistance, Mrs. Oramas. You - you have not done so today - have recently called us racists to address some problems that are happening in your land and of which you did not want to talk, and it is that Canarias is becoming a new Lampedusa. Canary Islands is a land today where hotels are no longer full of tourists by the action of this government and are full of illegal immigrants. [[Applauds]] I believe that this is a problem that you could well defend in this rostrum; you could well defend all those canaries that today are concerned about the collapse of the economy in the Canary Islands, about the massive avalanche of pateras that are leading many canaries to have to go looking for work elsewhere outside the island. And tell the Canaries too that fighting illegal immigration is racism! Frankly, I think you're really a sensible woman. We've had a chance to talk on several occasions. I do not think that when you hear us talking about illegal immigration control you really think that we are doing this from a racial perspective, from a racial discrimination approach, from a racist approach. We do so from a logical and common sense approach which I also believe is shared by the vast majority of the canaries, even those who vote for you. [[Applauds]] I have nothing to say to the renegade. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u40	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u41	I'll step in from the seat to expedite the procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u42	Appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u43	I believe that we are again showing that they are guided by the simplifying ideological archetypes. When we are talking, for example, about the solution for Spain emptied by turning waters, in no way are we talking about the same territories because, for example, the density of Murcia as an unpopulated area I think there are 132 inhabitants per square kilometer, and I am talking about the problem of those provinces that have less than 12.5 or less than 20 inhabitants per square kilometer. Murcia is not an area at risk of depopulation in general. Archetypes must not be extended to all territories. Watering can provide timely work, but not only with watering would obviously solve the problem, as well as not only with the increase in birth, which they have defended at some other time. We are aware of the sympathy that we have aroused and what I can assure you is that in no way in Teruel is opposed to the actions of the constituency of voters. There have been many ex post facto surveys of our support and we keep our word, which we campaigned to support the Government, because we said that we would guarantee the country's governance because the country could not follow the situation in which it was, without forming a Government for months, and that has been supported by all the Turkmen. The Turolians continue to support us and are very pleased with the work being done by this citizen movement and this group of voters. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u44	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much too, Mr Abascal, for your words; I too show you my respect. I have a minute that I will use to remember first of all the founding motto of my party, which I think identifies us: 'More Asturias, better Spain'. You put the autonomic state in check and we in the Forum believe in administrative decentralization, which today has two main emergencies to which I believe you have not referred this morning. The first is the reform of the autonomous financing system, which is five years behind schedule. It is a perverse, unjust, unequal, marginalizing system; we need VOX also to join the demand for reform of the autonomous system to be a reality as soon as possible. Secondly, Asturias needs a fair deal. We don't want to be more than anyone, but we don't want to be less than everyone else either. Today - I take advantage that Mr Ábalos is in the blue bank - Asturias is stupefying at how the railway corridor in the northwest is marginalised and, however, triple investments are announced for the Mediterranean corridor. We want the same deal as the others, we don't want to be more than anyone else, but neither do we want to be less than the others. Mr Abascal, add to the task of ensuring that the Autonomous Communities are not discriminated against. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u47	Mr. Abascal, Mr. Revilla presented himself in Álava as a municipal candidate because there were no candidates for the fear of ETA, and that honors you, but today we have not come to examine him, eh? I haven't called anyone fascist before either. Look, I believe that everything has already been said, or almost everything, because these sessions are going to be repeated throughout, in favour of and against Mr Abascal and the Government. I do not come here to criticize the government, you have already done enough and we already know you are right about some things, but that is very easy because it happens to all governments everywhere in the world. Today what it is about is you, Mr Abascal, and I'm sorry to say that you're going to take out a rotundo suspension, you're going to take out a 1 over 10 approximately. This has no short-term arrangement, but I hope it will serve you to retire and meditate on a season, which is what really suits Spain. You should review your doctoral thesis. Finally, I am hoping that this session will end and that we can devote ourselves to budgets, economic recovery and the fight against the pandemic. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Abascal, I thank you for the respect, mutual respect that I have already transferred to you in the first speech, because, obviously, when four million Spaniards decide a political option, they must always respect it, decide that or what they decide, even if it is much less those who vote, but in this case it is four million. I also thank him for understanding what the Navarra regime is and for understanding the state of autonomy, because, as he said, it is fundamental to Spain's progress. Of course, we understand both the autonomous system and our outside regime, our historical rights, as well as something good, something positive, but always, as we have said, with loyalty to Spain. We are proud to belong to this great country that is Spain and we understand that forality makes us more Spanish than if we were not, in this case, an outside regime. From there, let's put, as I told you, everything that unites us and let's leave those things that separate us, because the things that separate us the only one that makes him happy is the president of the government, who is delighted to see if we are able to fight among those we think Spain is a great country; he is much more comfortable with those who think that we must untie and we must weaken Spain as a country. And a lot of things we have to agree on. Apart from the whole situation, from the mismanagement that is being made of the pandemic, apart from the economic crisis, which is of course coming to us, it is coming to us - and we are already seeing the people who are stepping on the street, because we are being stopped by the people and they are telling us -, in addition to that we attach a great thing to you, to us, to the People's Party and to Citizens - and I hope that to some others - which is always to denounce the laundering of the terrorist band ETA. [[Applauds]] That must not always stop denouncing it in this House, because we cannot call that band as it is called, it is a terrorist gang and we will say it many times, and we will not stop saying it, even if we are told that we are heavy, because we have a commitment to those who gave their lives for Spain and for defending the freedoms of all who are here and of all the Spaniards who are at home. And we will always denounce that in this House, even if they say that we are heavy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u50	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I'll talk to you for a minute. So we made it all up! There is not a single statement that has been made here that is not contradictory that is made either by you or by any of your trusted ones; all of them. Of course, I understand, you are in that of the alternative facts to see if we invent another story and, if there is any luck, force to repeat it - Mr. Goebbels's, sure it sounds to you - convinces us all that the white is black, etc. So the wrong way is choosing you with this. Second, we're clear. New Canarias is a Canarian nationalist party that is not in independenceist theses, which we already know that if there were the dystopia that you were president of the government we would be at serious risk of being incapacitated and disappeared from the map or banned; those things that were done in the times that you claim, which are those of Francoism. Finally, I will tell you that if you continue to do so, you will certainly continue to have the following situations in the Canary Islands: not a single canary Member in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. Continue like this and we will certainly reward you equally. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u52	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Abascal, I have never in twelve years used qualifications with political leaders or fellow Members. What I'm telling you is that yesterday 1300 human beings, including children and women, have slept on the floor of a pier, and immigration is a human drama. I was one of the people who, with a socialist government, in 2006, resolved how to tackle the tragedy of immigration and the issue of the Canary Islands on the southern border of Europe. But today you have set up a theater, indeed. You say you're coming to contaminate. It's a lie, they get PCRs when they arrive. You say they're coming to take away our jobs. It's a lie, these people don't come to the Canary Islands, they come to Europe fleeing war, hunger and misery. And of course we are demanding a socialist government to act, and if you came to Congress more and were in parliamentary initiatives you would know that this Member has been demanding this since February. And while you are coming to the theatre, for two weeks we have 30 000 more people at ERTE and we have reached out to the government and Brussels to resolve it. But that does not mean that we support asking people again in this country where they were born, in which god they believe and who they love. That model of society is not ours; it is that of tolerance, that of tolerance, as I have it with you and with the respect that I also have to your political strength, but to which I will never support and to which I do not wish to govern this country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u55	It's true that it doesn't offend who wants to, but who can, because calling someone renegade who has never felt Spanish... What have I turned down? I'm not Spanish, and I don't want to be Spanish, and what you tell me comes in here and out here, but what's really cool is that I say it after this morning you put on the lamb skin saying, "They dehumanize us, they dehumanize us when they talk about us!" And then he comes here and lets go of this one. [[signaling an ear]] [[pointing out the other.-Various ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] Well, to me, actually, it's the same. I like that he finally showed his true face. That is what I have said to him: his is hatred of the different; on that he has also based the argument of the motion of censure. You've gotten involved with everything you think is different from you using disgusting expressions, such as multicultural tern, gender ideology, etc. His speech sucks hate, and it is that here are words and to me those words do not affect me, but the problem of hate speech is that they then turn into aggressions and that there is a long history of aggressions for ideological motivations and for hate motivations, and this should be of concern to us. Sonia Rescalvo, Lucrecia Pérez, Carlos Gustavo Bueno, Carlos Palomino, Roger Albert, Ángel Berrueta, Aitor Zabaleta or Guillem Aguló were people killed for hate crimes, for hate to the different, and you are soaked in this hatred and you suck it out of pores. Against fascism we're not going to take a step back. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u56	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Denials]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u57	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. First of all, I'm going to address the gentlemen of VOX. Now, know that of the thirty minutes I have allocated this is the only minute I will devote to you and your fascism. I will not go in and discuss his insults, his grave accusations against us and against Basque society. I am not going to respond to your hate attacks on anyone who does not think like you or even go into discussing your words, who seems to want violence and pain to return to Basque and Spanish society, because it is so serious, so serious, it doesn't even deserve an assessment. I will only tell you that ETA nine years ago it ended; that Basque society is building peace and that coexistence from respect and mutual recognition are also being built from there; that it is costing us a lot and that we are all making a huge effort to move forward. I was going to spend my time... [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] I have something else to tell you, too.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u58	Quiet, please! I will not allow insults in this House!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u59	...that on that path that is being drawn from the Basque Country, from living together, on that path you are neither expected nor expected. Therefore, gentlemen of VOX - listen to me well - will never, ever, be part of the future that Basques and Basques have ahead of us; never. That is why we are going to vote against this motion of censure, because we are going to say no to fascism and hatred to say yes to rights and freedoms. I was going to spend the rest of my time transferring some thoughts to Mr Sánchez, but, since he is not here, I am going to address them to the ministers and ministers I have before me and also to the MPs of the PSOE and the UN We can; some reflections as best antidote to the far right: dialogue and respect, which is what hurts them the most, which they cannot bear. I want to share with you the record of this government now that it has been almost a year since the investiture: less than a year, a pandemic, a state of alarm, a brutal social and economic crisis and also an escalation in attacks, insults, hate messages, the targeting and confrontation of the ultra-right and the ultra-right. A year ago, in the investiture, we said that this state needed a lot of democratic culture and a lot of anti-fascist pedagogy too, and today we have the best proof that it is not only necessary, it is urgent if you do not want the right to take the rights of citizenship, the freedoms of the people and also to take this government forward. Because, let us not be mistaken, this is not just a motion of censure against Sánchez and his Government, it is not even a motion of censure against Mr Casado; this is a motion of censure against the advances in rights and freedoms that can occur from the left and plurinationality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this motion is aimed at supporting the regime of 78 and all its pillars before which, in the opinion of the right, poses a risk to everything that has been tied and well bound, because they fear that the chiringuite will be dismantled from the hands of the majority of the investiture, that the regime will fall to them, that they will fall and that there may be a cultural change in this State that will bet to open the locks of the evil so-called Transition and that will bring down the pillars that have allowed this State to continue to function as it was in 78, which some still yearn for. They are afraid, yes, they are afraid of a genuine democratic transition that forces the right to assume values of solidarity, respect, dialogue and freedom for all the citizens of this State and of the peoples living in it. They are afraid that this monarchy, led by the heir of that king crowned by the very Franco, will fall, paving the way for a democratically elected head of state. They are afraid that reactionary judges and emergency courts, which use to imprison ideas, opinions, feelings, songs or ballots, will be able to give way to a justice with capitals, which responds to the citizenry and is fair with the rights and freedoms of the people. They are afraid that the State Security Forces and Corpses will lose their impunity and have to respond by acting like the sewer of fascism, which attacks freedom of expression, beats the weak and violates human rights, while protecting the powerful corrupt. They are afraid that the IBEX 35 and the CEO will stop deciding about our lives, that the big entrepreneurs and the oligarchy will stop having the power to precarious the workers for their benefit. Fear that the Church will stop deciding about our bodies, our education or our values. And fear that the feminist wave will bring down the patriarchal system, in which so comfortable they are exercising their power over us, and that we will be able to lay the foundations for a present and a future in equality and respect. In short, they are afraid of a structural change in this state that opens the door to a new historical phase, a new historical phase based on social democracy, economic justice and the plurinational respect of the peoples that make up it. This is what they are so afraid of: democracy and freedom. Because this is what this motion of censure is about, gentlemen of the government. This is what is at stake in the coming years, whether Sánchez and his Government will be courageous in undertaking that cycle change that can open the door to a real democratization of the Spanish State in social, economic and territorial terms or not. They, the extreme green right, the extreme blue right and the right orange, have it clear, and that is why they are willing to do anything to overthrow it. They are clear that the transformation of these pillars is a great danger to their ideas and their regime, for it is they who survive in each and every one of these pillars. And so it is also they who control the state and its becoming by the back door, and they do not even hide it. What we are not very clear is whether this Government is aware of what is at stake and, if so, whether they will have the determination to face them and to go the way to democratize this State. They say from their government that the right will not rule in a long time, and we agree. If it depends on us, they won't, but, as I said, they already rule from behind. Judges, police, media, the IBEX, the Royal House, have it all cobbled, because all that is the legacy of the 78's regime, the regime with which it must be broken. Yes, the Basque independenceists want a democratic rupture and a republic, yes, a republic of their own. But, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, also help you if you decide to break with this regime to build your own republic, just and respectful of the rights and freedoms of the social majority. It is a matter of political will and historical responsibility as well. Are you willing to take over and exercise it? We, the left-wing independenceists, unlike the right-wing, are not so clear that those pillars that underpin the 78's regime are in question, and believe me that we would like to. And we would like, in addition to being able to decide freely and democratically our future and to achieve a social and democratic Basque republic, because, as people of left and internationalist who we are, we believe that this break-up, this model change would also be good for the working and popular classes of this state, so that the social majority could abandon decades of precariousness and cuts in their rights and freedoms and be able to aspire to decent lives. It is true - we recognize this - that since this Government came to terms, steps have been taken in this direction, in the right direction, both in the forms, in the dialogue bet, and in some of the measures that have been taken. Yes, I say so clearly, steps have been taken in the activation of the social shield that has protected millions of people. The minimum living income, which will mean that many families can have minimum conditions of dignity, has been introduced, although with great flaws and defects. Progress has been made in women's freedoms, in their equal employment or in the recovery of the right to free abortion. Steps have been taken to dignify the working conditions of riders. It's over with the layoffs. Telework has been regularized and tax amnesties have been discontinued. Yes, they have taken steps in the right direction, we are glad for it. We have accompanied them with our votes, but we expect more, and we expect more because the pillars remain intact and the decisions for that structural change do not come. Look, the monarchy is corrupt and no longer has the majority of social support, and yet the Government, this Government, continues to defend it. The security forces continue to function as a violent cloaca of the far right and the Government does nothing to end it. Justice remains politicized and in the hands of the right, but the Sánchez Government does not want a real depoliticization of it because it would mean giving up being able to use it at its convenience, as some have done. The CEOE continues to impose its veto and its approach to labour rights, and from the Government it continues to be accepted. These are just a few examples of why we do not see enough courage in this Government to make that change. The truth is, they're afraid to do something solitating to the right. Instead of making courageous decisions, you practically ask permission to the right for each step, and so it will always be they who decide and you who obey. We know how the PSOE has managed social crises, economic crises, territorial crises or institutional crises so far. And now President Sánchez is facing all these crises together, and this time we ask him, we trust and hope that those left-wing and progressive convictions that he defended on board a car by half state will bring them into effect, that the leadership that he displayed in front of his party apparatus and against those who preferred to maintain the status of things as they were, that rebellion that he displayed in front of the PSOE, will also bring them into practice now to address these challenges. That is why we ask the Sánchez Government to look to the future, to make the decisions that open up a new time, to face this pandemic and, above all, the social and economic crisis - which they are hitting so hard - to apply new, fairer and more dignified recipes to build something better. That is why we ask you to bet on changing the social and economic model by building a fair working environment for women workers; to tackle the distribution of wealth by making rich and large companies pay what they should; to confront the banks that have so much stolen and so many families have emptied; to tackle the industrial and ecological transition; to bet on wages and decent pensions or the dignity of care. We ask you to ensure and expand the social shield beyond the pandemic and to recognize the subjective right to housing; to end the cut in freedoms that the law imposes; to address a just and inclusive democratic memory and to end police and judicial persecution against independence; to address plurinationality from respect for the right to decide; and to make dialogue, recognition and respect the basis for our nations. In short, we ask Sánchez to exercise historical leadership and apply a structural change that does not have to go backwards. We came to this Chamber to improve the lives of Basques and Basques, we came here with the will to address the great challenges this State has to our citizens and we also came to help improve the lives of the workers of this State. It is precisely because we are leftist independenceists that we are supportive and we want Spanish citizens to improve their living conditions as well. That is why we say to the President of the Government and to the Government that it is time to move forward; that Basque society and also Spanish society are prepared to take advantage of this opportunity; that it is not a time for lukewarmness, but a time for quiet progress; that it is not a time for doubt, but a time for a strong political will. Many of us in this House are prepared to start this path and, finally, there are majorities to go through it. These weeks and months will decide the course that this state will take in the coming decades, will decide what prescriptions will be applied to face the new challenges and to solve what remains to be solved. The big question is for President Sánchez, it is for the President and his Government; the big question is whether they will, whether they are willing to make this state a democratic state of the twenty-first century to stop being a failed state of the twentieth century. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u61	José Pardines Arcay; Melitón Manzanas González; Fermín Monastery Pérez; Eloy García Cambra - it's good to hear -; Humberto Fouz Escobero and Jorge Juan García Carneiro; Fernando Quiroga Veiga; Juan Antonio Bueno Fernández; Luis Carrero Blanco; José Luis Pérez Mogena; Gregorio Posada Zurrón; Manuel Pérez Vázquez; Martín Durán Grande; Antonio Alonso Palacín; María Jesús Arcos Tirado; Félix Ayuso Pinel; Francisca Baeza Alarcón; Baldomero Barral Fernández; Gerardo García Pérez; Francisco Gómez García Estévez; Manuel Llanos Gancedo; Luis Martínez Martín; Joselfina Pérez Martínez; Concepción Pérez Paíno; María Ángeles Rey Martínez; Jerome García; Argímino García Igóménóñez; Luis Santos Pernánez; José González; José Día [[I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group. They stand up and continue like this throughout Mr. Abascal Conde's speech.]] Francisco Martín González; José María Portell Manso; Domingo Merino Arévalo; José Javier Jáuregui Bernaola; Juan Antonio Pérez Rodríguez; Juan Manuel Sánchez-Ramos Izquierdo; José García Gastiain; Alfonso Estevas-Guilmain Muñoz; Aurelio Salgueiro López; José Antonio Ferreiro González; Lorenzo Soto Regil; José Zafra Regil; Ramiro Quintero Ávila; Francisco Liesa Morate; Anselmo Durán Vidal; Ángel PachecoPat; José Benito Díaz García; Elías García; Ramón Muiño Fernández; Alberto Villena Castillo; Luis Carlos Gançado Ron; Luciano Criado María Corral; Andrés Silverio Martín; Epifanio VidalCarlosarronz; Ignacio Olaiz; Juan CruzOrgando Fernández; Rafael Recaola Landa; Luciano Criado Rama; Luis Candendo Pérez; Luis Candójóvíos; Lenajos Andrés Varela Rua; Ángel Baños Espada; Héctor Abraham Muñoz Espinoza; Diego Alfaro Orihuela; Francisco Medina Albala; Jesús María Colomo Rodríguez; Moisés Cordero López; Emilio López de la Peña; Antonio Pastor Martín; Miguel Ángel Saro Pérez; José Manuel Amaya Pérez; Dorothea Perting; José Manuel Juan Boix; Juan Luna Azol; Jesús Pérez Palma; Guadalupe Redondo Vian; Dionisio Rey Amez; Juan José Tauste Sánchez; Antonio Nieves Cañelo; Manuel Ferreira, Father Simois; Antonio López Carrera; Aureliano Calvo Val; Luis María Uriart Alzaa; Modesto Carregas Perez; LuisMarlúsio Carrez; Juan Tauste GonzálezGénez trace; Aurelio Pérez; Aurelio Pérez; Lorenzo González-Valles Sánchez; Sixto Holgado Val; Luis María Urícarte Alzaa; Pedro Marcos Antonio Gómez Ramos; Aurelio Navío Navío; Ramón Ledo Taboada; Francisco López Bescos; Mario González Blasco; Jesús María Echeveste Toledo; Antonio Fernández Guzmán; Basilio Altuna Fernández Arróyobe; José María Urquizu Goyoaga - the father of another friend -; Antonio García Argente; Mariano González Huergo; Miguel Hernández Espigares; Alfonso Martínez Bella; Ramón García Fernández; José Ignacio Ustarán Ramírez; Benito Morales Fabián; Jesús Hernando Ortega; José Antonio Merenciano Ruiz; Avelino Palma Brioa; Juan de Dios Doval Mate Lisa; José García Fernández; Lorenzo González; Jaime Arrese Arizmendrieta; Felipe Extremiana Unanue; José Manuel Cordero; José Vázquez Plata; José Juliocórêlle Cristina Mónica Illarramendi Ricci; Agustín Martínez Pérez; Alfonso Maside Bouzo; Ramiro Carasa Pérez; Vicente García López; Pablo Fernández Rico; Ángel Pascual Múgica; Antonio Huegun Aguirre; Luis Manuel Allende Porrua; Daniel Enríquez García; Rafael Vega Gil; José Luis Fernández Pernás; José Aybar Yáñez; Juan Antonio García González; Alberto López-Jaureguizar Poncela; Miguel Garrido Romero; Vicente Gómez Duarte; Antonio Cedillo Albert Ruiz: Víctor Lago Román; Carlos Manuel Patiño Casanova; Juan Seronicóróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróróró; Miguel; Miguel; José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José José García; José García; José García; José García; José José Victoriano Collado Arribas; Agustín David Pascual Jove; José Luis Veiga Pérez; Vicente Gajate Martín; Juan Sánchez Sierro; Joseph Couchot; Mohamed Hamed Abderrahaman; Luis Alberto Asensio Pereda; Juan Enríquez Criado; Francisco Javier Fernández de la Justicia; Pedro García Suárez; José Larrañaga Arenas; Enrique Casas Villa, Senator of the Socialist Party; Agapito Sánchez Angulo; Ricardo Tejero Magro; Angel Facal Soto; Carlos Díaz Arcoch; Jesús Ildefons García Vadillo; Máximo Antonio García Kreinle; Luis Navarro Izquierdo; Juan José Uriarte Orús; Máximo Díaz Bardera; Francisco Rivas López; Moistro González Féro Luengo; Alfredo Aguirrez Parens; Francisco Miguel Sánchez; Esteban del Amo García; Juan García Jiménez; José Isolónónólás; Mávelístico Díaz de los Médios de los Més de los Més de los Més de los Més de los Més; José, José, José. if not mistaken -; José María Picatoste González de Chavarri; Ángel Barceló Naranjo; Ángel González Pozo; Rafael Garrido Gil; Daniel Garrido Velasco; María José Teixeira Gonçalves; Daniela Velasco Martínez de Vidaurreta; Julio Sánchez Rodríguez; Genaro García de Andoain Larrinaga; Francisco Royo Giménez; José Antonio Peña Medina; José Ángel Ramos Saavedra; Manuel Rivera Sánchez; María Luisa Sánchez Ortega; Juan Fructuoso Gómez; Felix Peña Mazatos; María Teresa Torrena France; Carmen Pascúl Valencia; Miragros Amez Franco; María Rosa Baldelou Mestre; Sonia Cabreriz Mármol; Susana Cabrerizol Mármol; Felipe Caparrós Ubirna; Teresa Cecilia; María Paz Diéguez Fernanda; María Rosa Baldellou Mestres; Sonia CabrezónCarrez; Susan Cabrezón. Engraciano González Macho; José Calúvo de la Hoz; Juan Bautista Castellanos Martín; Juan Antonio García Andrés; José Montes Gila; Luis Hortelano García; Manuel Jodar Cabrera; José María Sánchez García; Gregorio Caño García; Ignacio Barangua Arbues; José Martín-Posadillos Muñiz; Conrada Muñoz Herrera; Luis Reina Mesonero; Carmen Tagle González; José Antonio Cardosa Morales; Juan Pedro González Manzano; José Ángel Álvarez; Elena María Moreno Jiménez García; Ignacio Bañelos Moreno; Ignacio Pérez Álvarez; Rafael San Sebastíán Cruz Rodríguez; Ángel Jesús Mota Igles; Benjamín JuanChipórez; Elena LuisPerez; Virgilio do Nascimento Afonso; Francisco Almagro Carmon; Aurezán Rodríguez; José Lasantando Mora Maríñez; José Luis Arturo Anguera Vallés; Anseán Castro; Manuel Broseta Pont; Virgilio Más Navarro; Juan Antonio Querol Queralt; Francisco Carrillo García; Ramón Carlos Navía Refojo; Juan Antonio Núñez Sánchez; Antonio Ricote Castillo; Emilio Tejedor Fuentes; Ángel García Rabadán; Eutimio Gómez Gómez; Antonio Ricodo Somoza; Julia Ríos Rioz; José San Martín Bretón; Enrique Martínez Hernández; Antonio José Martos Martínez; Miguel Miranda Guerrero; Aquiline Joaquín Vasco Álvarez; Juan Manuel Hélices Patino; José Manuel Fernández Lozano; Juan Manuel Martínez; Antonio Hernández; Ricardo González Colino; José Luis Luenzos Martínez; Miguel Miranda Portas; José Antonio SantamarónCarloselloJobandojojos Patino; Emilio Castillo López de la Franca; Ángel María González Sabino; José Luis Luéncarolólívarez; Javier Baríñó José Luis Caso Cortines, also councillor of the People's Party in Irún; José Ignacio Iruretagoiena Larrañaga, councillor of the People's Party in Zarautz; Ascension García Ortiz and Alberto Jiménez-Becerril Barrio - the brother and sister of one of the deputies who is here today - Tomás Caballero Pastor, councillor of UPN in Pamplona; Alfonso Parada Ulloa - I also know his son -; Manuel Francisco Zamarreño Villoria, councillor of the People's Party in Rentería - I was able to speak to him shortly before he was killed and his concerns passed on to me - Pedro Antonio Blanco García; Fernando Buesa Blanco, leader of the Socialist Party in Álava; José Miguel Porlorza, who was the sculptor, the barterzaine, who was escorted to him; José Luis López de la Callería; Jesús Pedrosa Urquiza - estouvedorente un corps during the night Cecilio Gallego Alaminos; Silvia Martínez Santiago; Juan Carlos Beiro Montes - we also know his wife -; Antonio Molina Martín; Joseba Pagazaurtundua Ruiz; Bonifacio Martín Hernando; Julián Embit Luna; Diego Armando Estacio Civizapa; Carlos Alonso Palate; Raúl Centeno Bayón; Fernando Trapero Blázquez; Isaías Carrasco Miguel, former member of the Socialist Party in Mondragon; Juan Manuel Piñuel Villalón; Luis Conde de la Cruz; Inaxio Uria Mendizabal; Eduardo Antonio Puelles García; Carlos Saénz de Tejada García; Diego Salvá Lezaun - the son of one of our fellow Members - and Jean-Serge Nein. Of these nearly a thousand crimes, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than three hundred that are unresolved, that is, that the perpetrators of those crimes, the chivatos, those who shot, those who told whom to kill in each people, are free today; perhaps they can be sitting here in this rostrum some of those who pointed out to those who had to kill, voting today with this Government. We'll never know for sure. We will never know, ladies and gentlemen, do not be shocked, because impunity has been guaranteed here. Here we come to talk about the historical memory of a century ago, but they do not want to talk about the recent historical memory nor do they want to talk about those with whom justice has not been done. So write down these thousand more reasons for the motion of censure that we are putting forward, because we cannot accept in any way and stop denouncing that the Spanish Government is holding on to its votes today and that you are pandering to it when you make statements to the press coming out of here and saying that you are taking and putting governments; it is better than taking lives, but here it has not yet been paid, there has been impunity and there are more than 300 unsolved crimes. We want for them memory, dignity and justice. Enjoy impunity, because you can be sure that impunity will end. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, who have stood up. applause from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u62	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. Mr. Abascal, this isn't even original. Your intended coup d'état already gave it in 2013 Antonio Basagoiti, then leader of the People's Party, from which you come. I will tell you almost mimetically what I said in the days after that same intervention, that of the enumeration of all the victims of ETA. Out of respect for all the victims, whom you quote and which you will always forget, because you do not consider them victims, and in order not to add more pain to your family members, the only thing I ask and will always defend is truth, justice and reparation for all the victims, those of ETA, those of all the para-police violence and for all the victims who remain unclarified in the Spanish State. That's what makes you and me different. In any case, I do not want to look like you, because I do not want to use the victims to cover up the lack of political arguments. I do enter this debate with political arguments. And look at what politics is, that I will enter this debate with a very clear statement. I rise in this rostrum to ask for the vote in favour of VOX's motion of censure. I am addressing in particular the right and very Spanish bench of this House. I make it clear to you that Euskal Herria Bildu neither wants nor can nor will ever vote for a motion of censure which seeks to lead the citizens of Euskal Herria and the Spanish State towards the involution and the retreat of freedoms, but I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the various right-wings, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of Citizens, of Navarra Suma and other vestiges of the Spanish right-wing, should dare to take the step. [[Protests.-Rumors.-A honourable Member: Devoting yourself to asking for forgiveness]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u65	Iker Jiménez, who'll know how to interpret them, I don't. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] In any case, the Spanish chorus is very wise, and I know something about the Spanish chorus and there is an expression that says: in foolish words... let's finish it. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u67	As I was telling you, I believe that people in general are asking the political class, who we are in politics, to act with clarity and transparency. I think it's time for you to take off the democrat costume and show up as you are. [[Rumors.- A honourable Member: And you]] This is a good time for people to see that their positions are not uneven or even uneven from those who have presented this motion of censure here today; not their diagnoses nor their solutions. Thus, they may be able to carry out in the whole of the Spanish State what they have already been practicing in different autonomous communities such as Murcia, Andalusia or Madrid, although they sometimes say little here because they don't want to know too much. In this way, and with a concentration government of the extreme right and the extreme right, their claims could be put into effect. Think about it, if it's not too much to ask. Think if you don't deserve to vote in favour of the motion of censure and be able to carry forward your agenda; agenda that I'm going to list now. I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, to vote in favour of the motion of censure in order to further limit the rights of the LGBTI+ population and to carry out all their delusions, such as that of the manifestodrome of the Casa de Campo for the parades of the Day of Pride; before the Law of Vagos and Maleantes, today relegate them to the peripheries and remove them from the normality of our view in order to deny them their status as persons with full rights. I, of course, and our comrades at Euskal Herria Bildu prefer people who on June 28 and other days tell them on the streets that 'Your hatred does not fit in our streets'. But dare to support her so that she can, thus, unleash her persecution and criminalization of the migrant population, whose only crime is to put her own life at risk in order to have a life to live. I'm going to tell you one thing about this subject... yeah, one thing, you're going to have to listen... [[rumors]] [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u68	Quiet, please. Mrs. Beltran, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u69	Anyone who plays life in a coffin has more dignity than all the fascists in the world together. [[A lady MP: Let you.-Applause.-A gentleman MP: Come!- Rumours]] Those which you call foreigners in a derogatory way and which ceases to be derogatory when those who are foreigners have titles of nobility - it seems - those which you call foreigners, as I say, in a derogatory way or even with acronyms not to say that they are talking about minors to those who criminalize, as when they say MENA, are the reality that we live. And we again say to them that we prefer to remain anchored in what the Basque independenceist left said that Basque or Basque is everyone who lives and works in Euskal Herria or that other thing that has already been said in this rostrum that no human being is illegal. Be brave and support the motion. They will thus be able to put an end to any policy that engulfs patriarchy and restores women's rights by advancing the path of effective and real equality between women and men. They already agree to blame on March 8 for all the current evils and to deny the very existence of patriarchal violence. Well, we and we will continue to shout alongside the feminist movement as little as one. They show their support because they will thus be closer to achieving the suppression of the few rights that the working class still has and thus achieve their dream of submissive and obedient workers and, if necessary, a new labour reform. They already coincide when it comes to shielding the privileges of the great fortunes with a custom-made taxation of them. Do it now too. You, all of you on the Spanish right, ladies and gentlemen, are those who think that wealth is produced by entrepreneurs. We and we believe that wealth is produced by the workers. It will be because we know that we belong to the best of classes, the working class. Their united vote, that of the Spanish right, can serve them, thus, to continue distracting the staff pointing with their finger the otupation while hiding the moon from the vulture bottoms and the evictions. For our part, we prefer to continue denouncing those who speculate with a right such as that of housing. No houses without people or people without houses. Try to make the motion of censure a success. This will cover their direct responsibility and their policies in the dramatic state of public health to which they were weakening and today society pays its consequences. In these times of pandemic there is no need for more priests or more military, there is no need for more health care. They support the motion, because they do not differ too much in the claim to cut self-government and/or by deleting, if appropriate, the self-government statutes themselves, with or without 155. At Euskal Herria Bildu we will continue to work to regain our sovereignty, all our sovereignty for Euskal Herria and its people. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the right, as they could force us, or at least try, to kiss the Spanish flag or the forced recruit at all times. We and we prefer to remain disobedient and unsatisfied. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] If they added their vows, they would be closer to getting together and persecuting all cultures and languages other than Spanish, to the penalty of heresy. Spanish so that it is not lost, above all: Basque, Catalan, Galician, Asturian, Aragonese, Llionese and other languages. I'll tell you one thing, they don't have so much to fear. Any student of the Basque public school or of the Basque school in general who runs his studies entirely in Basque, like my own children in model D, know how to handle the Spanish better than many of his lordships. [[A Member of Parliament: Better than you, yes]] Note also that with their support they could renew ad etherum the Concordat with the Vatican Holy See. We and we, by a secular character will be, would be more willing to terminate this eternal contract of permanence that is costing so much to the pockets of the citizens. They vote yes and put into practice their alleged thesis that voting is the most dangerous exercise that can be done and that all punishment is little. We can only tell you that from Euskal Herria Bildu we will continue to defend more ballot boxes and less batons. Be patriotic and monarchical and vote in favour, so they can impose compulsory worship on the monarchy and the Bourbon dynasty and decree by law an amnesia on their andanzas. Others and others will continue to defend the Basque Errepublika, the Basque Republic. They continue their vote and thus carry out their intended closure to the historical memory. In this way they will be able to pass as normal that they remove plaques to anti-fascist militants or poets like Miguel Hernández or that Lorca, to shame of all and everyone, remains buried in a gutter. From our positions we will continue to call for truth, justice and reparation, as I said at the outset, for all the victims. Support and take a big step in your claim to ban and illegalize democratic political parties, ours, that of the gentlemen of the PNV, Podemos, Socialist Party, ERC, BNG and all that I forget. Do so, if that is your conception of democracy; it is only up to you to conceive of democracy because it is so narrow. I told him once and I'll tell him again: our dreams don't fit in his laws. And as Periko Solabarria said, 'If they don't let us dream, we won't let them sleep.' Because, in short, ladies and gentlemen of the right, one of its main objectives, which you have certainly longed for more than once in their respective eagle nests, is to end the Basque independenceist left, not for what we are... [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba utters words that are not perceived]] Thank you very much for your sincerity, with you the citizens of Navarre have already finished, who did not vote for you. [[Rumors]] Like I said... [[Mrs Beltrán Villalba utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, he had to look for shelter in Madrid because he didn't go out there.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u70	Mrs. Beltran Villalba, please. I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u71	As I was saying, his dream, which is to dive into his eagle nests, is to end the Basque sovereignist left, but it is not so much why we are here, because of the five people we are here today; it is not because you have not been able in eighty years to bend to a social and political sector of our people that openly declares itself anti-fascist, independent and left-wing. [[Rumors]] They couldn't and they won't. And I say that that is their goal but it would be more fair if I said that it is the goal that their bosses send them, because you are the forces of shock - all right - of a great boss, a great master, the oligarchies of the Spanish State, the same ones that have decided to make a unit of destiny in the universal or a unit of market in the universal of the Spanish State to turn it into a prison of peoples and a place where the rights of the working class are crushed. I end up addressing the political forces that voted, or voted, on the motion of censure against Mr Rajoy, I think it was called. Let us think about what else we can do, as has already been done in the Basque Parliament, so that the ultra-right does not mark the political agenda of the Spanish State, because if the ultra-right commands and marks the political agenda of the Spanish State, those who suffer are the popular classes of the Spanish State and by extension, because we are still in the Spanish State and I hope not for long, of Euskal Herria. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the right, they vote, that even by joining their votes they have less future in this motion of censure than a representative of Spain at the Eurovision Festival. But still vote for it to be shown that they are a minority and that if it depends on Euskal Herria Bildu they will be for many more decades. In short, and as a good friend says: Fascism, no water. And if he's thirsty, dusters. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u72	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to contribute to a spurious use of the parliamentary instrument of the motion of censure by a political party that puts forward a candidate for elimination, because they had no other, after the pumpkins they had received from other people at their offerings. A candidate who no longer aspires to be invested or to govern, as he has made explicit, but not even to obtain the support of any political group; who, consequently, does not present a programme for understanding between different people and achieving a parliamentary majority, but rather a mixture of simplistic and contradictory ideas for sowing weeds and hatred; who only seeks with this initiative minutes - many - of television; who declares that the Franco regime was better than the current government. A candidate whose government proposal is to outlaw those who do not like him, including my own party. A candidate who presents a pointless motion of censure in the midst of the pandemic and in the midst of a galloping economic and social crisis, and does so for the sole confessed purpose of calling elections that would further complicate the picture, delaying decision-making. Abascal is not a candidate, he is the non-candidate, and the Basque Nationalist Party will not contribute to giving prominence to this sham motion of censure. Obviously, we will vote no. You can spend the next shift, Madam President, and use the 29 minutes I haven't used. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u74	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u75	Obviously, I am not going to reply to your intervention because you have practically said nothing; I am going to reply to you. First of all, what do you mean, the Basque Parliamentary Group? What is it that you only represent the Basques? You have been being in this House the pampered children of bipartisanism. Here there have been Basque Members of the Socialist Party, of the People's Party and, sooner or later, of VOX, who are also Basques. I am, too, but I have been elected by the Madrid constituency. What is it that you are praising the patrimony of the Basque people? It is as if we came here and recorded VOX, a Spanish parliamentary group. We think you're doing things that betray all the Spaniards, but we don't think we can tell you that you're not Spanish. What's more, those who say they're not, we call them renegade, but we say they're Spanish. And how has it been tolerated here for forty years that you called yourselves the Basque Parliamentary Group? That'll change sooner or later, too. [[Applauds]] You have only said one thing about this motion of censure and have been making a reference to the spurious use of the motion of censure. But do you want to convince us that you are not making a permanent spurious use of the institutions to undermine the Constitution and to gradually destroy unity and harmony among the Spaniards, which is what you have done throughout democracy? And you dare to tell us that we make a spurious use of a motion of censure? This serves me for a reflection that I usually make on you and that is that you come here to make very complex legal deliberations. You come up to the rostrum with the air of a stateman, you walk through the halls of Madrid, some of you have been slapping them for a long time, but you only represent the betrayal as a way of doing politics, from your foundation by a lunatic, like Sabino Arana, who still has monuments and avenues in Bilbao, to the betrayal that you did in Santoña to the Republic, passing through the betrayal to Mr Rajoy, to whom one day you approved the budgets and the next day you made a motion of censure. And, of course, betrayal of a very important part of society, because you have played with advantage. They have moved their political agenda forward with the action of others and while some beat the tree, others picked up the nuts. You are not serious and that is why I told you this morning that you have acted in politics as extortioners, with very polite and well-dressed looks, with a suit and a tie. And you've always played two decks, because the other day you decided in a pact with Bildu that you were going to never marry the VOX MP in the Basque Parliament and that when she talks, you don't talk. For having done the same thing today, having been consistent. And yes, we have raised the illegalization of separatist parties, but not because we are against political pluralism, but because political pluralism cannot be an excuse to destroy the fundamental law, to destroy the Constitution and to destroy the unity on which our Constitution is based. Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban Bravo. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u76	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to say the first words I address to this House today are in memory of our colleague Joan Mesquida, because I would like to thank very sincerely for the expressions of affection that we have received from almost all the political groups in this House. The fact that people of such different ideologies and parties so different have mourned his death is a clear indication of the magnificent person he was. So we're gonna miss you a lot, mate. [[Applauds]] It does not seem so seeing debates in Congress and seeing today's debate especially, but yesterday 218 people died in this country, I repeat 218 people; it is as if a plane full of passengers with their crew crashed in this country every day. In what we carry as a pandemic there have been more than 50,000 people who have died, 550 people have died in the last week alone. We are coming to a time when we have normalized the pain and tragedy in this country. Right now there are 13,288 people admitted, there are 13,288 families concerned, people with fear and people who don't know if they're really going to be able to get out of this. But there are 1911 people who have entered the ICU and are literally debating life and death. I'd like to talk about something you never talk about and it's about people who have overcome the coronavirus, who have not died from the coronavirus, but who are probably going to have serious sequels forever. [[The lady]] Some have had to learn to talk after months of intubation, some are going to have heart problems forever and fear that some thrombus will end any day with their life. Of course, we could talk about the unprecedented economic losses that Spanish families are suffering. In this crisis, thousands, hundreds of thousands of middle-class and working-class families in this country will be ruined. Never in the last few decades had the elderly in our country been as afraid and as sorry as in the last few months. There is also a generation of young people who are going to suffer a second major crisis in a few years. There are many young people in this country who have not yet been able to form a family, who have not yet been able to buy a house, who have not yet been able to establish themselves in the labour market and who have suffered from the crisis of 2008-2010 and who are also suffering from the crisis of the coronavirus; many young people who were planning to return to Spain some day are not going to be able to return, and many young people who did not want to leave Spain are going to have to leave. This is the reality of Spain and, as the networks say, in the meantime in the Congress of Deputies we attend a speech that has already been described by the international press as a toxic debate. In the meantime, we have to hear in the Congress of the Deputies lessons of democracy of people like Bildu or the CUP, or speeches absolutely night-drenched by Chinese viruses, by Soros Masonic conspiracies, or say: we are not going to get involved in responding to provocations but in the end they end up calling it predator and fascist. And there's still Mrs. Lastra, there's still Mrs. Lastra and the representatives of Podemos. This is a bubble - this is a bubble - that does not look at all like the fear of families, the concern of families or the pain of families. I haven't been on the other side of television for so long, in a private company, in a job as a regular employee, seeing the debates of Congress, and I remember perfectly well the shame that sometimes felt - and look at that it wasn't the rift of now - when we saw some debates away from reality. What's going on? That some of those who have spoken today or will speak tomorrow have not worked in their life outside of politics, therefore they cannot remember the shame that one sometimes feels when listening to political debates because they have never felt it, because they have lived the whole life living in politics. This motion of censure will last not exactly known, but about thirteen, fourteen, fifteen or sixteen hours; at this time one Spaniard dies every seven minutes per coronavirus, in what lasts this motion of censure will have died 130 or 150 more Spaniards. The second wave of the pandemic is already here, it is already entering by hospitals, by emergencies, by health centers, by some elderly residences; it is already here, and it is a shame that this second wave has not been used as a second chance to do well the duties. Other countries that were among the worst in the first wave put their batteries, did their homework and today are not the worst countries facing this second wave. But here we are again and in worse circumstances, because the health care providers are tired, because the families are powerless, because the self-employed are without savings and because again they are reprogramming operations and diagnostic tests in hospitals. And this situation affects voters from all parties. Voters have died in Spain from all the parties that we are represented here; voters from parties that did not come to have representation; people who have never voted, and I hope you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are many people who are not going to vote again in their lives because they are tired of the barren debates of politics. This crisis is going to be a before and a after for humanity, yes, but it is going to be a before and a after especially for the countries that have worst addressed this problem, as is Spain. We - our generation - will have to explain to our children and grandchildren what we did during the pandemic. Like many times we have listened to our parents and grandparents who have told us their experiences of the Civil War, the dictatorship, the 23-F or events not so negative but quite the contrary, like the Transition or the fall of the Berlin Wall, we will have to explain what we did during the pandemic, especially us who were at that time in politics. [[The Lord]] I believe that they will judge us all; the accuser finger of history will judge us all, the government of course, but also the opposition. Today we are in a debate on a motion of censure and it is a constitutional and legitimate mechanism, we do not doubt that. I want to explain to people in good faith that they ask themselves: but if the government has done so badly, why will Citizens vote no to this motion of censure? Well, there are many reasons why we are going to vote that no to this motion of censure, I will go from the least important to the most important. The least important thing is that this motion of censure is not going to come out, it is not relevant as a reason; there are many motions of censure that have come forward knowing that they were not going out. No, no, it's not the main reason. The majority are the same, but there are much more important reasons. The second reason: We have to ask who benefits from this motion of censure. Censorship motions are usually made to weaken the Government, to show rejection and to propose a project and an alternative candidate. Well, haven't you noticed how happy the Socialists, the Lords of Podemos and their nationalist partners are today? Have you not noticed that Mr Sánchez has barely been able to contain the euphoria of knowing that this motion of censure is simply a gift to him? Did you call them Ivan Redondo, gentlemen of VOX, to propose a motion of censure? Because it looks like it's out of a plan by Ivan Redondo. Why? Because confrontation is the gasoline of this government. This government of Churches and Sánchez needs to confront the Spaniards and divide us to remain in power. There is nothing more effective than putting that Frankenstein majority in front of them an alternative of confrontation, an alternative that does not join the Spanish. I sincerely believe that we have to ask ourselves the right questions today because today we are not voting if we want Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias to govern this country, no, that is what we are voting for in an investiture session. If the question were whether this Government is right or wrong, obviously the answer would be another. If the question were whether we believe that this Government has managed the pandemic with competence, the answer would be obvious. If we are asked whether we believe that this Government has a clear ideological agenda that it wants to impose even in the midst of the pandemic, we would answer it clearly and without any problems. But what is being voted on here today is a motion of censure that has an alternative candidate and an alternative programme supposedly. To those who say that this Government is a danger, we said so many months ago. I proposed an alternative way for this government not to be formed, Mr Abascal, there were 221, I don't know if you remember it. We appeal to socialist voters who could regain the values of constitutional socialism. We made an offer for the People's Party, the Socialist Party and we to add a very broad constitutionalist majority. What did you do to prevent this government from forming? Because the feeling that many of us, that we saw coming, without knowing about the pandemic, the problems that this government could generate, was that others in the opposition were rubbing their hands, that they were ruling, that they were doing it wrong, and that they were destroying Spain that we were already coming to rule over the ashes. And we said, no, it's not that we're afraid that there'll be no ashes left to rule them. And it is also a trend that has done us a lot of damage, indeed, in this country: that those who are in the opposition are glad that the government is mismanagement, that they are glad that misfortunes are happening because they are more reason for me to then vote for myself and thus be able to come to power and, of course, to the political forces that have been in the government, it has given them the same if they are mismanagement or otherwise, the only thing they have to do is to cover up mismanagement, that no one knows what we have done. Well, we believe that we can do politics differently and we also believe that we are paid the floor when we are in the opposition. There is another reason why we are going to vote that not if the previous ones were not enough to this motion of censure and this is the time when it is presented. We are in the worst pandemic that will remember our generation and now what we would have to talk about is what we can do to save lives because we are in the middle of the tragedy, we are in the middle of the tragedy, the accident has just occurred. What do we have to do? Keeping people safe. Or are we going to the one who caused the accident to see if we can get anything out of it? We have to save lives, save jobs, because what you propose exactly what is it? Going to elections in fifty-four days? Get millions of Spaniards back on the street in the middle of the pandemic? Is that a solution in the middle of a tragedy? I do not think that is the main reason why we are going to vote that it is not because the censorship motions in our country are constructive. I like Spanish democracy, I am very proud of our country, of our democratic system and one of the issues guaranteed in our democratic system is that when you make a motion of censure you have to present an alternative project, you have to present one for what, not only what harm they do, but what I will do. Not only do I not want you as president, but why do you have to vote for me as president. I will tell you, with great respect to the four million voters of your party - I share the indignation when some dare to call four million Spaniards fascists or franchisors - what a bad concept some of Spain have who believe that there are four million fascists in this country. That's why I'm going to tell you our differences with full respect. I respect your voters, but your model of Spain and Europe has nothing to do with what I stand for. Nothing. You see Spain in a struggle of left and right. I see that the great debate we have right now is the debate between liberal democracies and populism. You believe that voters who are not of your party are necessarily enemies, and I believe that we are all compatriots. But it is also true that this government divides the Spaniards between good and bad, it is true. It's true that this government, if you don't vote for the government parties or the parties that help this government come to power, then you're already a fascist, you're already a Franco, and one day they'll call you, I don't know, taxidermist. But think what you are proposing, because you are calling us traitors. Yes, your Catalan candidate, who for that has set up this motion of censure, so that someone will begin to know his Catalan candidate a little bit, has called us traitors. If for you it is bad Spaniards who vote for parties that are in the government or that support the government and those that are in the opposition, and nothing more than Spanish Spaniards it is you because the others are traitors, that Spain is left to you? I will give you names that you, I don't know if you or any of you, have called traitors: Felipe González, Aznar, Carlos Iturgaiz, Arturo Pérez-Reverte, Pedro J. Ramirez, Carlos Carrizosa... Today even his colleague appealed to the constitutionalist sense of my colleague Edmundo Bal. Is Edmundo Bal also a traitor? Am I a traitor too? Who's gonna be the most traitor? Is Don Pelayo going to be a traitor, Mr. Abascal? I do not share his family model, his imposition of a family model, his concept of family. For you there are normal families and other families. For me there are equal families and I don't care what model they have. You deny debates and problems that are evidence, sometimes some scientific evidence. You are comfortable in the rift and I fight every day for us to overcome the rift, because, if not, the rift is going to be a tsunami that is going to tear Spain apart, and we have many historical examples to know how the story ends when we split into sides. You have made a speech today that is clearly anti-European. Your Europe has nothing to do with mine. For you it is a problem Europe, he has said a phrase that is literal to what he said at the time Puigdemont: that it was a group of bureaucratic states. For me, Europe is freedom and it is future. For you Europe is based on an identity, white and Christian Europe. For me what unites us in Europe are rights and freedoms, it is not an exclusive identity. You speak of Europe as a third person: Europe steals from us, Europe imposes on us. It is that Spain is Europe, that European aid is not aid that comes from Mars to help us poor people, that Europe's aid is Europe helping Europe, because Spain is also the heart of Europe. Our European partners have nothing to do with their own. You know who our European partners are, the liberals. We have also promoted comprehensive agreements in Europe, which are very beneficial to Europeans, between social democrats, liberals and conservatives. His partners are Le Pen, Orban or Kaczynski. You defend false protectionism: let's shut down the economy, I'm afraid, put in tariffs. No, the problem right now, Mr Abascal, is that protectionism does not protect, but isolationism does isolate. We trust in a European project, not based on identity, but based on values, rights and freedoms. I have been very concerned about your drift towards attacking the Constitutional Court now as well. You too, Mr. Abascal? I thought that it was only separatists and people who are persecuted for justice, attacking the judges; but, you too. Look, I have also been very concerned that you are defending Poland's model of justice. The other day, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros to a tweet saying: No, no, the thing about Poland has nothing to do with Spain, because - attention to the argument - in Poland they carried it on the election program and people voted it. He reminded me of separatism. I mean, if on the election program you're gonna lead you to control the judges from the government, then that's fine. No, no, I don't care what barbarity you carry on the election program. If it's barbarity, it can't be done and point. And that serves the separatists and serves any other party. But, look, censorship motions are constructive in this country, and you should have presented an economic project, a social project, a reform project. There's no economic project. The only economic project is for the government to pay for all the payrolls and for Europe, look!, to stay out of our sovereignty. Look, honestly, Mr. Abascal, I highly respect the four million voters, but do you know what I think? That you channel very well is indignation and the goat; and there are enough and more reasons to be angry and outraged. If the question today is whether we are mad at the situation, the answer would be yes; if the question today were we again outraged at being the worst country in the crisis? The answer would be yes. But the question was not whether we are indignant or angry; do we want Mr Abascal as President of the Government and the VOX programme as a country project? And to that the answer is no, because indignation and the goat are legitimate feelings, which we undoubtedly share, but it is not a political project, Mr Abascal. Indignity and the goat is not a political project; it is a legitimate feeling, more justified than ever at a time like this. That's why I'm telling you we can share a lot of diagnostics. Then he's gone a little bit for Soros, for Trump, and there I've already lost myself, but he's made a list of government errors in managing this pandemic; I share it. He has also made a reminder of the cacicadas they intend to impose in the midst of this pandemic; I share that. I'm sure, like you, my guts are shaking listening to some moral lessons, with the acronyms of Bildu and CUP, I'm sure we share it. In fact, I would like to thank you for the tribute you have paid by reading name by name to the victims of ETA; it has seemed to me a tribute worthy of remembrance and that they consist forever in the Journal of Sessions of Congress each and every one of the deaths and victims of the terrorist band ETA. We can agree on that, Mr. Abascal. But today we are discussing an alternative to the government; and I tell you that the alternative to the poor management of the pandemic, on the part of these gentlemen, is not to call for a demonstration on a euphoric convertible bus as if we were celebrating the world cup! It's not an alternative. The alternative to the king's attacks is not to miss the dictatorship. It's no alternative to me! The alternative to Podemos populism is not the false protectionism and anti-Europeanism that we have heard here today, Mr Abascal. The alternative to the cacicada they want to do with justice is not to defend that cacicada, but I defend it in Poland because they are mine and they carried that cacicada in the electoral program. That's not an alternative. The alternative to the lamentable story taken by this armed struggle government of ETA, which even the president of the government put on a tweet reminding Joan Mesquida of armed struggle for ETA... If Joan Mesquida saw him! The alternative to that or talking about Basque prisoners instead of old prisoners is not to say that all those who are going to vote that no to their motion are allies of the Batasuns. That's not an alternative! I believe that not only must Spain be defended; one must defend a model of Spain; one must say what model of Spain we want. And I defend Spain without complexes; I defend the head of state without complexes; and I defend the democracy of my country from those who want to break it without complexes. But my Spain, Mr Abascal, is much more modern, freer and more united than you have presented here today; much more. Can we have things that unite us? Yeah. Do we have a real threat before us that freedoms will be undermined, that the institutions of our country will deteriorate? Yes, and I believe that at a time like this Spain needs a leadership and a project that unites the Spaniards, that defends our country, that defends the freedoms and rights for which our parents and grandparents fought so hard; yes. I believe that there is an alternative to this government of Sánchez e Iglesias, a government, by the way - I insist - that we try not to form while others were eating popcorn hoping that 'the worse, the better', that it will already be up to us to rule over the ashes. Spain needs that leadership and that project but, Mr.Abascal, neither you are that leader nor VOX is that project, and I think you know it better than anyone else. And there is no need to insult or criminalize or despise the four million voters and Spaniards you represent. You have repeated the word patriotism. Look, I think being a patriot means a lot: it often means doing what you know is right for your country even though you know it's hard. It's my job during the pandemic to do very difficult things, Mr. Abascal, but I guarantee you that I've done them because I know they're the right ones. And you, while we were doing this, have called us traitors, have called us sold. If we are already traitors - I insist - is that you will not have Don Pelayo, Mr Abascal. But during the pandemic I believe that being patriotic - I insist - is not to call people out to the streets and to make demonstrations, and I also say this by the Lords of Podemos, who are very worthy when they interfere with the management of the government but in the Community of Madrid well they call for demonstrations against an autonomous government, because then the responsibility there is forgotten them. No, we have to do the hard thing, and the hard thing in a tragedy is to get to help, not just to tell who was to blame, not just to try to get the colors out of those who caused the accident or those who were unwise to make it happen; it's to help. Let us save the greatest number of people in this misfortune, let us save the greatest number of families from the economic ruin that will come, and that is what we are doing in the pandemic. I have bad news for you, Mr.Abascal: These gentlemen who are in the government have a majority to be three more years. You don't like that situation, do you? Neither do I, but it is what it is, and being a patriot is also telling the citizens the reality. The current government has a Frankenstein majority and has no scruples in using it. No motion of censure, no vote against the states of alarm, no vote against their budgets will bring this government down. The question is not whether this Government approves the budgets and goes on - no, that is what they are going to do - the question is what budgets they are going to adopt, with whom they are going to do it and in exchange for what. That is the debate that we are going to have in the coming months, Mr Abascal; it is not if we can do anything to bring this government down, no. We have to send Europe a programme of reforms that we are not talking about, because we are talking about Franco, Soros, the facades and the plates of the streets. Talk about education, talk about health, talk about employment, talk about democratic reforms, talk about guaranteeing the pension system; that's what we should be talking about. And it is true that this government has other priorities, but what do we do with the opposition? Did we just stand there looking at each other? Do we not do anything to wait for aid to come and for Mr.Iván Redondo to divide it according to his communicative and political criteria, or do we try to be useful, save lives and save jobs in the worst crisis that our generation will remember? The second wave is already here; as I say, it has already entered the hospitals, it has already entered the residences, it has already entered the health centers; we have missed this second chance. What do we ask? For we should be doing a national plan to contain the second wave; well, we should not be doing it, the Government should have done it long ago. Because here there has been a coherent party - only one - that has come to grips when it was in the opposition and when it was in the government - only one - that has supported the states of alarm even though it does not like the government because we knew that we had to save lives - only one -; there has only been one party that has not changed its mind. Because at first it was very bad to declare a state of alarm at the national level because it was an invasion of the competences of the autonomous communities. Then, when Mr. Sánchez washes his hands, when he says in July: Come, everyone party, we have defeated the virus, then we complain because there is no national plan. No, no, there has been a party here that has said from the outset that the management of pandemics, as our legislation says, is the competence and responsibility of the Government of Spain, and then the rest of the institutions have to collaborate and manage, of course, but we have not changed the criteria forty times. I believe that right now we should be drawing up a national plan with coherent criteria, with clear criteria for the whole of Spain. Let us join the European traffic light, ladies and gentlemen of the Government - I see that there is also a very broad representation here for all of you - let us join the criteria of European traffic light; let us aim to reach Christmas in green so that we can recover the Christmas campaign, so that we can recover a part - not all of it, of course - of social life, so that we can participate in that European green light, and let us do so in a certain way. Let us avoid the shameful spectacles, let us avoid the spectacles of struggles between autonomous communities and the Government of Spain simply because they are not of the same political color, and make already a national plan of health reinforcement, because this is not a competence of the autonomous communities that the Government of Spain can look from afar. No, this is to guarantee the freedom, health and equality of all Spaniards. No, not all political parties are doing the same thing during the pandemic, and we will have to explain what we have each done in this pandemic. I honestly don't throw the towel away. Spain has overcome worse things, but not when it has been divided, not when a sectarianism has been put before a project that separates; no, when we have all gone together. When we've all gone together, we've overcome worse things, like the dictatorship to open up to the Transition or a coup d'état on 23F...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u78	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u79	It's over, Mr. President. As the challenge - which was a challenge - of entering the European Union, like defeating ETA, because it was not defeated by a government of any political colour, it was defeated by Spanish society and public servants, and we also did so together to stop the separatist coup of 2017. Spain is much stronger than some believe. We don't need to go half Spain to the right and half Spain to the left. We all need to move forward together. If we do, we will overcome this crisis; if we do, we are unstoppable. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u80	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u81	Mrs. Arrimadas, good afternoon. First of all, I thank you very much for the tone, I have to say that not the bottom of your positions because I believe that even to a certain extent our words have been twisted and, if by any of our positions it may seem to you that we are calling you traitors for not supporting a motion of censure, I have to say that nothing further from our intention, nothing further from reality and therefore serves this clarification to state that we are only accusing those who have come out here today harshly to make interventions to sustain and defend the action of the Government. I must also say that I respect you for the vote you are about to cast against us today and for the candidature we are putting forward to the Presidency of the Government. Now, I have to answer some things you said because they were full of inaccuracies. He has reported a number of partners; in fact, he has said three and has been wrong in two. Yes, of which he has said only one is in the group where we are, which is the ECR, the group of conservatives and reformists in the European Union. So, that's what I have to nibble at. Then you said something like this: You started talking about Soros and I've already lost myself. I can understand that, but tell Mr. Garicano to explain it to him because Mr. Garicano does know him and he must be a supporter. Soros is not an element that Mr Abascal invents himself, brings to this rostrum and generates a debate. No, Soros is a truly existing character who tries to influence Spanish politics and one of his colleagues knows him, so, so that you don't miss out on the next occasion, he asks. He has also come here to say that we attack the Constitutional Court; no, no, he is not mistaken, and he has also said that we attack him as separatists. We have a proposal for a comprehensive constitutional reform, and within it is the conversion of the Constitutional Court into a Constitutional Chamber in the Supreme Court. What we attack is the way in which the Constitutional Court is elected and that the major parties have been able to place so-called progressive or conservative judges there. The truth is that I thought you might agree with that because it is a clear message of democratic regeneration. On the other hand, we criticise that the Constitutional Court does not answer the unconstitutionality appeals raised by this group, and I believe that these are reasonable things that you might agree with us, both in the fact that political parties influence as they do in the composition of the Constitutional Court and in the fact that the Constitutional Court fails to respect this House by delaying the reply to unconstitutionality appeals that are very important. He has also said, and has been keeping it during these days in some statement, that this motion strengthened Mr Sánchez. Does he really say that? Do you really believe that the fact that Mr. Sánchez had to be portrayed again today with all his investiture accomplices strengthens you? Do you believe that Mr. Sánchez strengthens you from here today to sign a manifesto with Bildu against the hatred that spreads VOX, with Bildu, who has not condemned one of the crimes that I have reported in that rostrum? I believe, indeed, that we, with the introduction of this motion of censure, have not strengthened Mr Sánchez, but quite the contrary. But, of course, I could return the blow and ask you whether turning Citizens into the crutch of this PSOE and this government in these circumstances is not also to strengthen Sánchez and give him alternatives so that one day deal with the Lords of Podemos and another day with you, that in the end it will always be that deal with the Lords of Podemos, who are in the government, and will use you when it suits. The other day he also said that VOX was a scarecrow favoring Sanchez. Well, a scarecrow is something that is firm and barely moving with the wind; we baptize you in another way that I don't want to insist on, but the truth is that it seems that political events do make you different positions and I think they generate ideological confusion because I think we live at a time when the Spaniards need certainties, they need to know what they are voting for and they need to know where their vote is going to end, they need to know what government coalitions are going to be. I do not say that you have done, much less, what Mr Sánchez does, which says: I am not going to agree with a man, with a man and with a zutano, and twenty-four hours later you agree with all of them; but you are somewhat confused in relation to this issue and I believe that the Spaniards need certainties and that you are not giving them at this time. I have to say it has bothered me a little bit more - I thank you for not saying it in the rostrum, but you said it the other day to support the same argument - that we have tabled a motion in the middle of the second wave, you tell us, and you said that that was an immorality. He called us immoral. Of course, what do we call you for offering to support the Government that with its crisis management has caused us to have the highest number of deaths per capita on the planet and that has brought millions of people to ruin? [[Applauds]] Well, look, I'm going to tell you very clearly, we're not going to call them immoral and we're not going to call them in any way. We think you're wrong and I have to say I'm worried about you. They have also called us populists for saying what millions of Spaniards think, to which I thank for the respect they have shown, on the other hand. Of course, and what do we call that equidistance that you have now paid for? Because that equidistance has led him practically to equalize, he has told it at one point, Bildu's messages and VOX's messages, and he has said it practically in the same sentence. I also thank you for making the gesture and for saying that it does not put us on the same plane, but, what do we call the equidistance that you pose in your daily political action? Because I believe that it is not the same to give the votes or to support a budget or to support the action of the government that is negotiating with the lords of Bildu that to receive the votes that you serve to have advisers in Andalusia, Murcia and Madrid. [[Applauds]] When I spoke of patriotism, I think it was the only time I said it, it was to explain why we voted in favour of these governments, even though in some cases some of their colleagues - I have to say that that was in Madrid, not in Murcia or Andalusia - systematically mistreated us, practically preventing us from voting for an alternative government. That's what I've been talking about about patriotism. We have voted for the composition of governments that we have not been part of, with which we do not agree on many things to prevent the existence of socialcommunist governments in Madrid, Murcia and Andalusia. I do not think that you should get in the middle between those who agree with ETA and those who we give to you advisors in different governments. I don't think they should get in the middle of the Socialist Party and VOX. But it's his political strategy. In conclusion, Mrs Arrimadas, with all due respect, I believe that you are a serious woman, who believes in constitutional values, who has courageously defended constitutional rights in Catalonia, who has had the respect of many Spaniards who voted for other political forces, and I believe that you, Mr Bal, are a lawyer of the state of prestige, but I believe that you do what you do and as much as you think you do for patriotism, you do not have room in the Socialcommunist Spain of Sánchez and Iglesias. And you can be sure that, if one day it's not us - I don't think that happens very easily - the label of the extreme right will immediately go to you, because, in fact, you've already spoken about the ultra-right orange. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u82	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Abascal, you said no, that your motion of censure had not served to strengthen the Frankenstein Government. I assure you, yes, because you have given them the account they need. You have today made a story and a speech so nightly that it is what you need for all the barbarities to be closed, for all the alliances to be justified, because what you want to make see is that you face the alternative is that speech that we have heard in the morning. That is why it is so important to explain to the Spaniards that the alternative to this government is not Mr Abascal's speech, that the majority of Spaniards, as I said before, we do not have to choose between the barbarities that we see on one side and a speech that does not represent - I am convinced - nor their four million voters. Because you have achieved a difficult thing, but you have achieved it, and it is that your project has varnished it with indignation and goat, and many people empathize with indignation and goat, that you, better than anyone, are able to move. But when you scratch the varnish, underneath there is a project from Spain that does not seduce four million Spaniards, I am convinced. In any case, it does not seduce a majority of Spaniards, it is not a project to have an alternative that one again to our country. And yes, the nationalists need to say that Spain is the speech you made today, Mr Abascal. It's a gift! And they go around the world saying, "Look, there's an alternative to the government!" Look what they say about Franco! Is it that coming here to say that this is the worst government in eighty years, putting the dictatorship, do you really believe that this is not a weapon, apart from a barbarity, that they will use later? Of course! Is it really believed that many Spaniards represent the nostalgia of the Franco government? No, I'm convinced not. Under that varnish of indignation, which is legitimate, the political project that there is is not going to unite the Spaniards, quite the contrary. And Sanchez and Churches need that confrontation and polarization. They need to leave in half this Chamber of Spain, they need it, because so they will not follow three years - because three years will remain safe, unfortunately - they can follow ten years or more if they polarize Spain. Of course, this motion of censure and your speech to the lords of Sanchez serves you! I am not going to match Bildu's words here to the words of any other party, of course not his, but it is not necessary, because in the end they need a scarecrow. They will say: We do it very badly, we are wrong, we will control justice, but look at you, who we have before us! Sure, and get pearls out of your speech today. It is just that today it seemed that you were making a motion of censure to the Chinese Government, Mr Abascal, for real. Then it's not serious. The criticisms underlying your speech against this Government are serious, because they are serious mistakes, but, of course, you varnish it with other things and then you lose effectiveness. By the way, I know exactly who Mr Soros is, but I really don't know what he's doing in the motion of censure. Or those odes to Trump! Really, if you wanted to weaken the government, you did not succeed, but not because of an arithmetical issue - it was already all the fish sold - but because of a subject of storytelling, of speech. That is why, I insist, the gentlemen of the majority of the Government are meeting again. You tell me: We don't know very well what they're doing, because, of course, you've now given them the support of Mr. Sánchez's alarm states. Haven't you noticed we're in a pandemic? Do you think we can all continue to do our normal life, our usual activity in Congress while 550 Spaniards die a week? Have you not realized that there are citizens who are doing things that a year ago seemed impossible to them? Yes, for me a year ago it was unimaginable to start negotiating budgets with this government. But now there are tens of billions to be channeled and I want them to be well spent, I want there to be proposals to save the Spanish families. We have to negotiate health measures that citizens have to comply with and I want politicians to come out and say: These are health measures. Perhaps they are not exactly what I want or will be exactly what the other wants, but consensus in politics is very important for people to see that there is certainty, that there is leadership, that there is responsibility, that there is a plan. And what pisses me off is that we don't have it in Spain. Do you think I've changed my mind about what I think of the Podemos program or the members of this government? No, what's changed is that we're in a pandemic, and in the tragedies, as I said before, we have to save lives. It's not about saying, "Oh! Why did this happen to us?" How bad the driver was! We have to save lives, save ourselves. This crisis is going to plague the future of our children. I have a four-month-old son. What am I going to tell you that I did during the pandemic, that I criticized Mr. Sánchez very strongly for a year? Or am I going to tell you that, in spite of everything, we sat down and adopted a state of alarm because we knew that we were going to save lives, that we continued to offer help to take health measures and that Mr de Bildu did not decide where European resources were going in the coming years? That's what I want to explain to my son and that's what I'm going to be able to explain to him. Do you know what happened in the Senate today while we were debating this motion of censure? That today a Citizens' motion has been approved for an independent audit of the pandemic and a national reserve of health supplies. Of course, these are things that should have been approved a long time ago, things that the Government should do without the need for opposition in the Courts; in that we certainly agree. But today, while you were presenting this motion, we have negotiated with the PSOE and the PP and a motion has come forward to make an independent audit, as the scientific society asked us and asked us to do. I can explain that when we negotiate the state of alarm, we untie the ERTEs from the state of alarm. When you wanted us all to vote against, the ERTE would have fallen. Certainly, the government had not untied them - yes, all the blame - but the reality was that if we voted the way you wanted, the ERTE and the autonomous aid would fall because they were linked to the state of alarm. Realism, Mr. Abascal, realism. Politics is the art of doing what is possible, of being useful. And I think it has been shown in recent times that sometimes it is not necessary to have very large parliamentary groups to do good things for the Spaniards. You say we're the government supporter. Again, this government has a majority. It's a majority Frankenstein, it's a majority with which I would never get to Moncloa, never, but they have it, they're going to follow. The doubt is not about whether they are still in Moncloa, the doubt is about what they are doing in the next three years, because they are going to continue in Moncloa. And, in what is in my hand and in the hand of my parliamentary group, we will do anything to avoid more mistakes, to avoid more health problems, to avoid more ruin. In everything we can do to correct some mistake, there we will be. In everything we can do to avoid poaching, we'll be there. In all we can do to ensure that European resources are well spent, that is where we are going to be. In all that we can do to improve the image of Spain in Europe, instead of being stuck here, which is how we are, we are going to do it. And not because my principles have changed, but mainly because my values remain the same, and in a pandemic we have to do this. Because we are all going to be judged, also the opposition, and I am convinced that the Government is going to be judged for everything they have done in these months. Among other things, this audit that we have promoted will help to bring many things to light. And if there are things in the governments in which Citizens have been wronged, I want them to come out, to know each other, to be corrected and not to happen again. I remember very well when I was a citizen outside of Congress and I was shocked not to ever hear self-criticizing any politician. I am sure that mistakes have been made in this pandemic, of course, in the Community of Madrid or in any other Government of Citizens. I want you to come out of this audit and never repeat those circumstances again. We're in a pandemic, Mr. Abascal. We cannot behave as in the pre-COVID era, in social, economic, health and political terms. Do you really believe that you have made a criticism of me today saying that in the middle of the pandemic we are hoisting our shoulders together with a government that does not have our political colour and that we certainly do not share? For me it is a praise that I recognize that at a time like this we are being able to reach out to a government that is in the antipodes of our ideology because we know that with this we can save lives and save jobs. I only ask you, Mr Abascal, not to give arms to those who want to divide our country and to those who want to confront us, because, if we don't get out of this together, we don't get out. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u84	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u85	Mrs Arrimadas, we obviously agree that in the middle of an epidemic, what needs to be done is to concentrate on saving lives. What happens is that we think we have to do it differently. We think precisely that in order to save lives, what needs to be done is to throw this Government away urgently, which with its political action is causing more deaths. That's the difference between you and us. On the other hand, he insists on the idea that we have favoured Mr Sánchez by presenting this motion of censure. Did you favour Mr. Torra by presenting a motion of censure that was also defeated in the Catalan Parliament? [[Applauds]] I think not and that you did very well to present that motion of censure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. In case anyone didn't know yet, you here today have reaffirmed that you are a totalitarian and fascist party. They have done so with all their speeches and have done so by the candidate once again affirming that this Government is the worst in eighty years, assuming, therefore, as positive the Government of forty years of Franco's criminal dictatorship, which involved not only poverty, misery and lack of freedom, but also imprisonment, exile, torture and death for all those who dispelled and defended something as elementary as dignity and freedom. In Galicia, more than 6,000 people were killed, most still in the counties. That's what they want and what they really want. You made a victimistic speech, Mr Abascal, emphasizing the alleged attacks on VOX, when, in fact, it is you who attack all the political forces that do not agree with your political and ideological parameters, and especially the sovereignist forces of the nations that we are part of the Spanish State. Just a month ago you presented here a non-legislative proposal to illegalize all sovereignist and independenceist nationalist forces and today you have reiterated that proposal again. That is their conception of democracy: to eliminate politically, and with obvious longing for, when they did so physically, all the people and all the parties that do not agree with you. Today it has made clear here that they are a danger to democracy, to public rights and freedoms and has highlighted its ultra-Spanishist, totalitarian and exclusive project, while reiterating its discourse of racist, xenophobic, sexist and homophobic hatred. You have insisted that the sovereign deputies do not represent the national sovereignty of Spain, of your Spain, and you are right about that. I am here on behalf of the BNG to represent my nation, to defend the interests of the Galician people, of the workers of my country, to demand a fundamental democratic right such as the right of self-determination and to defend, yes, Galician national sovereignty and a future of well-being and freedom in our republic. But I am here with all the legitimacy, which I regret, because for that reason I have been elected by the Galician citizens, those who have repeatedly denied you the representation of my people every time there were elections, because, remember, VOX in Galicia has exactly zero mayors, zero councillors and zero Members of Parliament. My country will radically reject its proposal for political, cultural and linguistic assimilation to Spain because it wants to maintain its identity as a differentiated people, with its language, culture and capacity to freely decide its own future. Precisely because we want to be what we are, Galicians and Galicians who contribute to building from our country and our identity a better, fair and free world, free also from fascist scum, is why you attack us and attack our language and our culture. But, just as they failed in the Galician elections, they will also fail in this goal. I would like to recall here a phrase from Castelao, of that great Galician nationalist political leader who had to die in exile as a result of the persecution by the Franco dictatorship that you long for. He said Castelao in his monumental Always in Galicia, recounting all the failed attempts of linguistic assimilation: 'And what did you value? Because after more than four centuries of asimilist politics, exercised with all wealth of cunning and violence, our language is alive. So you are a failed imperialist.' Well, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, they assume that you are failed imperialists. As a best example of his ultra-Spanishist, totalitarian and exclusive project today we have been called renegade. Denied of what? I would be denied if I renounced being what I am, Welsh, if I renounced to represent my people with dignity. But I will never do it, because I am clear what my homeland and my loyalty is. Finally, I would like to bring here the words full of dignity and coherence of the great Galleguist leader Alexandre Bóveda pronounced before the military court that sentenced him to death, a war council mounted by the seditious military in August 1936: 'To my homeland e Galicia. She's a fervent lover. Xamais treachery, even if I've been granted centuries to live. He loves even more than my death. If the court understands that for this treacherous love must be applied to me the death penalty, it receives it as a sacrifice more for it. Fixen chant can go through Galicia and I'd do more if I could. If I can't, I'd even like to die for my homeland. Down your flag wish to be buried.' Two days later he was shot by his political and ideological predecessors, whom you claim today.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u88	Mr. Rego, you must determine, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u89	We are of the line of Castelao, Bóveda, Moncho Reboiras, leader of the Union do Povo Galego killed by the Franco police in 1975, and of all the fighters and fighters for freedom. That is why today the BNG, in defence of Galicia and democracy, is going to say no to the motion of censure, a no to fascism, a yes to public freedoms and the democratic rights of all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u90	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Abascal, I hope that my leftover shirt of fifteen euros and my jeans of twenty-four will seem decent enough for you to come up to this rostrum. In any case, I don't care what you think, because decorum is not worn in clothes, it is worn in works. Allow me to begin my speech with a compliment. I love that you filed this motion of censure against Pablo Casado and the PP. Honestly, he doesn't know how happy it is for many citizens to see the whole right - the coward, the veil and the fascist - divided and faced. It's a blessing, a feeling that's priceless. I therefore insist, Mr Abascal, and without precedent: thank you for the motion. In three years to see three motions of censure against the PP, and the last coming from the right itself, is something I did not expect to see in my parliamentary life. [[The lady]] First question, Mr. Abascal. Have you read your motion? Really? Looks like the lame motion: This one said this, the other said this another... Really, reading it produces intellectual indigestion. But let's get to the main thing. Mr Abascal, you want to be President of the Government, and I think that in order to be President you should answer some questions. Be honest. Would you vote as President of the Government for a person without a known office who has always lived from politics, nursed by Esperanza Aguirre and other leaders of the PP? Would you vote for a person who has the hard face to talk about the autonomous but has been able to lift the blind of a political chiringuito - his words -, Foundation for the Patronage and Social Patronage, without any known activity, and have the saints... redone to charge a fee of 82 000 euros without doing anything at all? Imagine the scene: You coming to the foundation, raising the blind, sitting there doing nothing and the only employee says to you: What do we do, Don Santiago? Same as yesterday: Nothing. Nothing! Would you vote for an indolent plug for President of the Government? I insist, Mr. Abascal, would you vote for a gentleman who accepts money from a dark Iranian group described as a terrorist in his early days? And finally, I believe that in politics private life should be sacred, and never serve as ammunition in politics. That's why I'm not bringing her here. But I give you a thought, Mr.Abascal: It is important to maintain the coherence between the convictions you are trying to impose on others and your own private life. I ask you again: would a person like that be entrusted with the Government of a State? No, right? Well, don't compromise, either, so it's all said. I'm done, and I'm gonna do it by remembering an advertising campaign that wasn't on television long ago. What do the flowers smell like? What does this motion of censure smell like? What does VOX smell like? What does Santiago Abascal smell like? A closed room, a useless spectacle, false victimism, hollow indignation, zombie apocalypse and decrepit imperial glories. This motion is legal, it is legitimate, like every one of the deputies who are in this Congress and every one of the votes that brought them to this Congress, but what is not legitimate, what citizens do not deserve is that their representatives miserably waste their time in this spurt of junk motion, full of adjectives and empty of proposals. So, Mr. Abascal, let's pass this, and another butterfly thing. And the Government: Comply with your investment agreements, take care of the majority who made it possible, all the Valencians who trusted this government, so that the Abascal aspirant will remain that all his life, the aspirant. I ended up the way he likes to end up on this patriotic right, with live ones. If you have to give it a living, and even if it hurts, today: Long live the Pope!, because it has recognized the right of homosexual people to form a family. Long live the pope! Yeah. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u92	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u93	Thank you, Madam President. I was listening before with a lot of attention - you're leaving; a second, Mrs. Arrimadas - what I was saying with disbelief. It seemed to me that it was another party that ruled with the support of VOX in Andalusia and Madrid. I heard so many differences, and then they rule together. [[Laughter]] Mr. Abascal, good afternoon. I believe that this motion of censure is making you longer than we are, that is to say. [[Laughter]] It was obvious that she was going to be a ghost, but there were many people who were worried, because they are many threats to many different people. There are a lot of people who have seen her with concern, and I want to address all those people to ask them to remember the high school class thug. Normally, he was one who liked to see himself as someone dangerous, threatening, very hard, and, in fact, he was the one who was most afraid; he was so afraid and so complex that he had to draw on the weakest. Remember, that thug in high school, the whole tough guy pose fell off when someone looked him in the eye and told him to go after the weakest was to be a coward. When that consenting thug is told that, it becomes a cry that if consensus progresses, that if he lives in a dictatorship... The proof that we do not live in a dictatorship is that you are not making leaps of joy. That thug is basically a coward. Someone who is dedicated to being a ball with the strong and cruel with the weak is a coward. And that's exactly what you do, gentlemen of VOX. You are servile with those above and cruel with the vulnerable. They are servile with those above when they say, as their deputy in Andalusia, that the rich are rich by nature; when they want to forgive all taxes to the billionaires, but at the same time they warn that the cuts will have to be on the bottom; when they defend, as in their April 2019 election program, they further reduce the dismissal so that they can throw you out for four hard. And, at the same time, they are cruel to the vulnerable when they charge against public health; when, for example, their deputy Ignacio Garriga, who defended the motion, said that universal and free public health is a scourge; when they charge against public pensions by categorizing them as a ballast for Spain; when in a year when thirty-six women have been killed for being women, one every week, you say that feminism is a cancer; when they charge against people LGTBI - I quote in this case, literally, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros -: 'In Spain we have gone from beating homosexuals to now they impose their law'; when they spread bubbles against migrant minors so that the Nazis will then go out hunting, as in the neighborhood of San Blas in Madrid. You want to pretend to be representatives of the normal people, but you manifest yourself by causing traffic jams in luxury cars, you have compound names, you walk around your farms with horses and pistols as if they were John Wayne, you prefer the trap rather than to Pope Francis who has already told you. I am not even baptized, but I see that they are not excommunicated, that they are already saying that people of the same sex have the right to form a family. They receive funding from millionaires or basically have the same electoral and economic program as the Faes: cuts from below, forgive them what they owe to those above. Although the oligarch is dressed as a village, the oligarch remains. Someone who is mad at the weakest and who systematically makes the ball to the top is not a rebel, he is a coward and Spain is no country for cowards. If our country was able to defeat the dictatorship on the street, if our country was able to overcome three crises, if our country is facing the virus and making pineapple with the toilets, do you think that with all that on our shoulders we are going to be afraid of some gentlemen consented by many brave women who let go? There are a lot of people who may be worried, but I want to tell them that, seeing them closely, they don't deserve to inspire any fear. You, gentlemen of VOX, may come out today with a lesson. In addition to the defeat of the motion of censure, Spain not only remains great, but is not afraid of them. You have long conceived Spain as a private estate. They treat it as a property that belongs not to the Spanish people, but to you by right, by surnames and that, if it is not yours, must be on fire. I will tell you very calmly, very politely and very firmly: you are no more Spanish than I, Mr Abascal, you are no more Spanish than we are because Spain does not belong to you; in fact, it is very big for you. A homeland, gentlemen of VOX, is to have love for the earth and you deny climate change, which is of shamans. A homeland is solidarity between compatriots, a solidarity community and you charge against public services, want hands-free for the exploiters and help those who are worse call it Paguita. A homeland is love for its people and you hate half the Spanish people, it has already been said. You hate feminists, on the left, LGBTI people, trade unionists, public servants, those who speak different languages, those who have been born outside and those who carry the opposite. Joaquín Maurin already said, fascism is, in a word, the solvent of Spain. The problem is that you, as you do not like Spain, name it very much, but you want it very little; the real Spain, not that of seventy years ago, that of today, but as you do not want it, today you present a motion of censure not to the Government, but to the Spain of the twenty-first century, and that motion of censure has already been defeated. I want to end up addressing the government. VOX is not just a danger because it drags right, it's a danger if it puts us on the defensive and makes us lose the initiative. Today's motion will be defeated, but that is not enough. On the street the social climate is rotting, despair, uncertainty and disbelief is widespread. The way to stop them is not just by answering here, it is ending the inequality and unhappiness of the most humble households. Reactionaries only grow in broken and frightened societies. That is why we, the Government, are calling for courage to make a country fair, green and sovereign and, in the meantime, for the gentlemen of VOX, if possible, not to be disturbed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u94	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Borràs Castanyer has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Just as Aitor Esteban, spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, has done, we would have liked to do the same with a common position, of this whole House, of sanitary cordon in the face of the danger of the extreme right. However, we are quite clear that fascism is not ignored, it is fought, and in democracy it is fought with votes; so here we have, in front of us, and the more than 527,000 people we represent. However, do not bother to replicate us, because we will not dialogue with you, we will not normalize your presence here. The party of the aspirant is extremely right-wing and we are extremely democratic, and with this our position and our vote is already diaphanous. It is that often patriotism of those who in the midst of the pandemic and in a situation of health emergency pose a motion of grotesque censorship!, without any route and without any other role to make waste time, money and energies for their particular autobomb. Go ahead, then, that we censor this motion of censure, because it is totally opportunistic and is aimed at resolving the differences between the extreme right and the extreme right. They could have stayed, made a video conference and saved us the risk of contagion, for starters. - Let us remember that we are in a state of alarm in Madrid and this morning this Chamber exceeded the figures set by the House in the face of the pandemic. And then and, above all, they could have saved us the bottomless well of barbarities and threats that we've been hearing from the first hour of the morning, from rebel charges to the Chinese virus. - I'm fascinated by the Chinese virus because, since you're the ones who ask us if we're Spanish, you've found the virus and you've asked for your DNI and you've seen it was Chinese. They have a fixation with China. I think there are specialists, they can come to them and they must have a solution. I also propose that you read, for example, Pere Calders, who has a story, Subtle Invasion, and the protagonist is a Japanese, but for the case serves them equally. While we are called coups, seditious, treacherous and separatist, present proposals to illegalize ourselves or present ourselves as a particular accusation against a democratically chosen Government, we respond to them with more democracy, more fundamental rights and more freedom of expression. This same morning we had official knowledge of the acquittal of the dome of the National Police of Catalonia: the Major Trapero, the Mayor Laplana, the Secretary General of the Interior, César Puig, and the Director of the Police Pere Soler. Officially this morning, unofficially and without any respect for the secrecy and privacy of the people concerned - but this is already Spain's mark - the sentence was already known yesterday. Last Monday we also heard the condemnation of the members of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia for allowing to parliamentary in a parliament. You see what Catalans do, to guarantee the essence of democracy. That is why these judgments, both in the same week, show that both the trial and, above all, the Supreme Court's conviction were political. How is it explained that for the same facts there are convictions ranging from disqualification to imprisonment through exile or acquittal? What is the president of Parliament Carme Forcadell doing in prison? If the dome of the Mossos has been acquitted today, what does Councilman Quim Forn do in prison? Today I want to say loud and clear that Catalan political prisoners serve unjust imprisonment, even more so when their comrades are at liberty. That's why I ask again today more than ever, freedom political prisoners and exiles. [[Applauds]] Countries that consider themselves democratic respect the will of their citizens expressed in the ballot boxes. We already know that you democratics have little and miss the dictatorship very much. It should be noted that up to nine Members have not finished their parliamentary term in Catalonia, the result of the repression and three other Members had previously left their seats. The last three elected presidents have been disqualified following the exclusion of three other presidential candidates in this same legislature. The conclusion is obvious: they do not tolerate the democracy of which they so much presume. And while you are shouting to the unison 'Puigdemont to prison,' we remind you that President Puigdemont is the legitimate president of Catalonia, ceased by an infamous 155, and today he is a Euro MP, enjoying immunity and freedom throughout Europe, because the European countries respect the lawfulness in force and because the citizens of Catalonia have wanted him and expressed him with the force of their votes, despite the resistance of the Spanish State which tried to prevent more than a million Catalan citizens from having political representation in Europe by the work and grace of a State which, oh surprise!, is not governed by you; but in this matter as if it were. But the ability to choose representatives of the citizenry through the ballot box, to this gesture as simple and as powerful, in Catalonia, as in the rest of Europe, we call it democracy. And while you have the only concern to preserve the sacrosanct unity of Spain and would like to return us to the Franco dictatorship, we tell you that more feminism, more tolerance, more education and more equality of opportunity for the whole world. While you are trying to speak shame to a monarchy that all of Europe questions, we say to you: more transparency and less hypocrisy and, if it can be, a little less ridiculous, because calling it impeccable, as you have done this morning, frankly... Moreover, we are struck by radicals, and we say to them that yes, we are radically democratic, and that on 1 October, as bad as it may be, it is the greatest exercise of democratic will in Europe's recent history, because more than two million Catalans, civic, peaceful and democratic expressed their will through the exercise of the right to self-determination, and expressing the democratic will is not, cannot and should not be a crime. A State that has political prisoners and exiles is not a democratic State, and with its dictatorial proposals what they claim is that it is even less so. While you are in favour of replacing wired by walls, we declare safe ports to help, guarantee and facilitate the work of vessels dedicated to saving lives in the Mediterranean. Their proposals are walls; our proposal is to open our hands, because we are not and do not want to be alien to the drama that affects millions of people, and our responsibility is to help them. As you wail and applaud sentences like those of the herd, we tell you it's no. And while you deny violence against women because of being so, and also use it to stigmatize immigrants, we tell them that this scourge exists and that it does not understand nationalities, that it is one more of their lies, that they believe that by far it will end up being true. But the data are what they are, and according to a recent report published by the Observatory against Domestic and Gender Violence of the General Council of the Judiciary, in 66% of cases the aggressor is of Spanish nationality. Less demagogy and more pedagogy, which in the last fifteen years have killed more than a thousand women, and this feminicide seems to worry them the least. And you're talking about crazy feminism! This is really crazy. Just to tell the candidate, we are addressing the coalition government, because, although this motion is an exercise of the extreme right to claim itself as the new Spanish right, they cannot get out of this operation. Because VOX believes that Franco lived better, but this government also seems to be living better against VOX, and Franco has only been replaced by a pomp worthy of a second state funeral. I remind you that if the ultra-right has fifty-two seats in this House it is because their irresponsibility led to the repetition of elections, and the result was that three deputies were lost, but VOX won twenty-eight; and, altogether, to end up making a pact with Podemos that Pedro Sánchez himself warned that he would take his dream away, and that in the text of the statement of reasons for this motion he is recriminated, and rightly so, because often business. They boldly repeated the elections by shouting: "Let the right hand come!" And go if he's here. The problem is, where's the left? Where's the left? Gentlemen of the progressive government, will the left one day arrive? She's missing in combat at the moment. VOX, PP, and Citizens fight to prove who is more right-wing; and PSOE and Podemos continue to show that they are left-wing. You know what's going on? That it would be enough for us all to see that they were democrats. The Catalan Democrats who, with a certain candidity, hoped for a change of attitude towards Catalonia, find that, after the time that this government has already been in Moncloa, the closest thing to repression with a right-wing government is repression with a left-wing government; and that is indeed reprehensible. What have they done to solve the political problem in Catalonia? Where were the promises that earned its president an investiture, on the basis of the de-judicialization of politics or dialogue? Just over 9 months ago in Mr Sánchez's investiture debate he promised that he would resume the political path by leaving behind the judicialization and looking for judicialization nothing comes to us; in fact the number of the reprisals is increasing, there are 2850, and Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart have been in prison longer with this government than with Mariano Rajoy as president, and this is also reprehensible. His Office this summer generating a new doctrine and twisting once again the legal system, which in the history books will offer one before and after the conflict in Catalonia, suspended 100.2 and the third degree to political prisoners; another example of the will to judicialize politics and this is also reprehensible. In the investiture they also spoke of dialogue and, for the moment, the dialogue table does not exist. Taking a walk through the gardens of Moncloa and taking a photo as a substitute for dialogue is reprehensible. Be brave and face a negotiating table; agree not to negotiate on the Catalan crisis, as the President called us this morning; I think they are all so nostalgic that we are now returning to the Catalan problem of Ortega in the 1930s. You know what's going on? We do not want to be any problem, we do not want to be or we are no crisis, we have the solution, we exercise the right to self-determination and you exercise the duty to apply amnesty to political prisoners; not doing so is also reprehensible. For crisis, that of the coronavirus and its management of the pandemic, which is frankly improved: they reacted late and opted for a castrense management of the information and also yielded to the recentralizing instinct that dominates any government of any color in Spain. We are faced with a negligent state; the figures do not require clarification some are blunt; from Catalonia with President Torra at the head of the Government they proposed and demanded concrete measures that, at best, arrived fifteen days late and many others are still not there. It is an absolute irresponsibility that because of the repression of the Catalonian State is now facing the second wave with a government without a president. What do we tell the parents of the students that by medical prescription they have to quarantine? It seemed to be getting better, we were told, but n. What about the difficulties in the collection of ERTE, what about the reduction of VAT on masks that are a good of first necessity today. And the consideration of culture as an essential good for when? Now it seems that you are in a very haste to unlock the renewal of the Higher Council of the Judiciary, but the haste seems to have only entered you when the judicial, for them, has begun to become, as I myself predicted from this rostrum, the judicial a for you, and that is also reprehensible. This government has driven the emerit king's escape to stealth and, that is also reprehensible, and this government hides the figure with which this real flight affects citizens' pockets in the worst health and economic circumstance of recent history. The right is proclaimed monarchical, but republicanism, that of this government, is at least singular, as it almost consists of joining its cry of living the king. They no longer hide themselves in the ghost of the right and use democracy, which is a much more powerful weapon; the far right is combated, not used; it is not used as an alibi; but there are many reasons to criticize the management of this Government and there are also reasons not to support this motion of censure, and one of them, if not the main one, is responsibility. We are suffering this health emergency of enormous dimensions and, although we can discuss, and indeed have discussed, the way in which they faced the crisis, it is clear that management is extremely complex and requires collaboration and institutional stability; the same collaboration as in the Community of Madrid shines out for its absence and the same institutional stability as the State through the judicial apparatus insists on torpedoing Catalonia with its constant interference and legal atrocities without the cry in the sky before these coups to democracy. We are not going to blame them, but we are not going to applaud them either when this parliamentary tragedy media that we are witnessing today is over, the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis will not only not have disappeared, but will probably have worsened. Let us not forget the fourth crisis, that crisis that affects this State. We warned that our vote was going to be a no, a no without doubt and without palliatives, a no capital. But let no one be called a fool, neither is it a yes to the present government, which calls itself the most progressive in history and does not progress properly or will surely make history for nothing good. Censoring is a verb that perfectly marries the ideology of the far right. From a government of progress we hoped that verbs would decline more and better: progress, agree, resolve or negotiate. I repeat, the ultra-right is being fought and the supposedly progressive governments are being called upon to do so as simple, but as powerful and as manoeuvring in the Spanish state as respect for democracy. We know, as Bertolt Brecht says, that around the fascist states there is a huge and dense wall of charlatanry and cheap philosophy. This gas wall is a prodigy of the technique of obfuscation. After what we have witnessed here today, it would not be necessary to add anything else, but it is paradoxical that we find ourselves in this situation, in which we are always accused as independentists of not devoting our efforts to giving solutions to the problems of the citizens, and today we have been brought by this shameful spectacle to which you yourself have entitled: sadness and tragedy. What a way to waste time! It seems that they do not realize the poorly disguised marketing operation under the concept of a motion of censure, which makes us lose resources and time to the government that is surely more valuable today than ever and that we should devote to what is really important. We have heard from the right that it is an anomaly that there are independent parties in democratic countries. Nothing comes to you from the UK or Canada, I suppose. We have also heard that freedoms are being stolen, and here I do want to draw attention, because the freedoms stolen in this country are represented by political prisoners, the reprisals, who are defending their ideas. Pedro Sánchez blames you for wanting to regain freedom to incarcerate, pursue, discriminate, but the government of Pedro Sánchez also takes the liberty of incarcerating Democrats, spying on dissent, spreading false reports from the patriotic police, persecuting citizens who have detergent in their homes and treating them as terrorists, incarcerating pre-emptively elected governments and social leaders, i.e. less lessons and more looking in the mirror before saying according to what. They call us okupas. For the time being, the only ones who have occupied some of our seats have been you this morning. They call us traitors and renegades. We cannot betray a country that does not recognize itself as its own, and it is not baladí that they name us so, because this way of naming us is a whole declaration of principles besides being a very particular way of treating the citizens who have lent us their trust. If it were for us and they were truly democratic, not only by taking advantage of the sources that democracy puts at their disposal, they would let the Catalans decide our future freely, but being in the midst of the pandemic solutions are needed and, so far, the Spanish State has been impeccably diligent in taxing when most European countries have implemented moratoriums. We need tax freezes, tax burdens to protect and save businesses, among many other measures. If Catalonia could dispose of its resources, as is the case in most countries, it would be us ourselves who would make the decisions; we are doing so with the limitations that are well known. The Government of Spain has so far acted reactively, not proactively. Do not be content with presenting yourself as a lesser evil, gentlemen of the Government, because then the disgovernment will be greater. We're here to do politics. Do politics. Find solutions. For photos they already have those of their comrades of the PSC manifesting themselves without any redness with the ultra-right in Catalonia. Make policy, negotiate and agree on the distribution of European aid to combat the pandemic and the economic and social crisis it brings. This is a complicated situation. No one could have imagined that we would live in this pandemic, but its management has reaffirmed to us more than ever that it is necessary to have a State of its own to manage in this case an emergency with all the instruments and resources to make them available to citizens quickly and efficiently and without the need for permission. Junts per Catalunya - and I finish, Madam President - proposes solvency in the management of the crisis and independence to deal with those who come, and do so with full possibilities. I ended with the words of the famous Premi d'Honor de les Lletres Catalanes, Enric Casasses, who yesterday received the award: 'The independence of Catalonia is no economic maneuver. It's the solution to an injustice. A scandalous social, linguistic, human, cultural and moral injustice.' Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u97	Mr. Errejon, I see you a little tormented by the class thug. [[Laughter]] I think your cohabitation with the alpha machito has become very long, but don't worry, you've already taken it away from you, or the other way around, you don't know. [[Laughter and applause]] Look, Mr Errejón, I usually listen to you carefully, I did it today in the rostrum, and you mention a lot of the homeland, Spain, the Spanish, but you are in a group voluntarily with all the separatists. You are in the Plural Parliamentary Group with the Galician separatists, with the Valencian-Catalan separatists and with Catalan separatism and you come to talk to us about Spain? I don't know what's wrong with him. He gave Mr. Baldoví a tick. [[Laughter and applause]] You come to this rostrum, it seems that directly from the Faculty of Political Sciences, and you come to do experiments and it takes a while like this, and you say: Let's see if you talk a lot about the homeland, about Spain, a part of that worker voter, of that social voter, who is going to VOX, we recover it because he has that patriotic feeling. This is not the kind of chemistry, Your Honor, here you have to have credibility; here, when you defend the homeland, when you defend Spain, you have to believe it, and you cannot believe it because you are voluntarily in that group with all the separatists and not the Joint Group, which is a tailor's drawer and could be involuntarily. [[Applauds]] He's in the Plural Parliamentary Group with all the separatists. [[Applauds]] I recommend that you continue with the experiments because they're bad for you. You started with that of playing the letter of moderation to see if the Socialist Party was hitting on you, and the Socialist Party is hitting on the extremist, the alpha machito, the class thug. I'm sorry about you. [[Laughter and applause]] Mr. Baldoví, your problem is not the dress. I have explained to you that it was not out of respect for us, me, the king or the military parades, that it was out of respect for the House's workers, who come with dignity in uniform: the cooks, the waiters, the maintenance staff, the cleaning staff and the ushers, while you come in any way. I'm not going to go into what you smell, I'm not going to do it for not going into the personal, but since you've pardoned me, I'm going to pardon you, too. Your problem is self-confidence, your problem is style, your problem is bad education and, beyond what you think and say, you have an added, aggravated problem. He recently said here, with some forms... that they come here, that they present this motion of censure, that they stick to the host. This is Parliament, Your Honor. You're like that rude guest who comes to the table and burps. [[Applauds]] Well, look, I'm not gonna argue with you anymore. Go up again, burp again and save us the show. [[Applauds]] Well, Mr. Rego called us Fascist Scoria! You know what I'm gonna tell you? Well, he's sad, that's all. [[Laughter and applause]] Mrs Borràs, you have said that fascism is not normalized, after it is normalized, that it is used or not used, but that it is fought with votes. For I believe that the coup is locked up, and if we had acted long before against the criminal organization Pujol S.A., of which all of you have lived and which you have represented, we would also have saved ourselves the coup d'état that took place in Catalonia in 2017. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] One of you, accompanied by all the separatists, says that we do not understand the complexity of Spain and that we are not Spain. No, we alone, obviously, no. But does it turn out that Spain is the one who wants to destroy it? Are you Spain who sit with those who want to destroy it in the same group? Is that Spain? We're not but you are? And you understand so well the complexity that you want to divide sovereignty and you want to tear it apart? Are you the ones who understand Spain? Several of the members of that group refused the status of Spaniards. I'm not saying it to insult them, they've said it clearly. Well, give up your Minutes, give up your salary and leave this House, as some Members of another group have already promised that they will be able to discuss with you later. That is precisely one of the scourges of Spain, which they send to Spain, which decide in Spain those who hate it. Make way for those who really want unity, harmony and coexistence. Clear the way, renegade. Open the door, you slugs. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u98	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u99	Thank you, Madam President. A motion of censure is not unsuccessful because you don't have the votes, because you already knew you weren't going to have the votes. A motion of censure may not count on votes; now, if you have no votes or ideas, then it is a drama. That is indeed an experiment that goes deeply wrong, which is being choked throughout this afternoon. [[Applauds]] In every intervention that concerns you, Mr Abascal, as you have run out of papers and you have to pull resources - and resources you are quite loose - the motion is getting more and more uphill. That's a failed experiment, Mr. Abascal. Look, I think you have a goal, plus a very clear goal: that politics is a pitiful place, that it's a laudable place and that everything produces bochorno, so that people say: my mother, how terrible, they're all the same, and that people turn away from politics. Because the institutions are left to you, because the institutions are an agreement, and without institutions do you know what it commands? Without institutions, he rules the law of money, the despotism of which he has the most. That is why I say to you - and perhaps even a compliment - that the point of always pointing to the weakest and always serving the above is not courageous. You can do it with a lot of braveries - and now you'll have unlimited time to let go of many more braveries - but it's not brave; it's basically petty. You don't dare those above, so you try to sow the hatred of the penultimate against the last, and that's a miserable policy. It's possible that I was wrong to say that your attitude is bully. Now he's done like that one who has a bit of trouble following the pace of the class - because it costs you a bit - and then let go of two or three jokes. [[laughs]] I went up thinking your attitude was bully; I think in this motion of censure you're going home like a buffoon. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u100	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Mr. Candidate, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u101	Then, when they're done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u102	No, there are no more interveners in this group. I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u103	Mr. Errejón has come up to the rostrum and calls me a classroom mantle, and then goes back down when I answer him and says I want to turn politics into a muddy one. Make yourself clear. As far as we do not dare with the strong, ask Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias and ask also one of his IBEX allies whom we have mentioned in this rostrum. Perhaps it is you who do not dare with the strong and those who have abused the weak by promising false hopes and always betraying them, Mr Errejón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u104	For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u105	Thank you very much. Let me start with something binding, because I've never been so happy to see someone here again. Welcome, dear Aina. [[Prolonged applause]] Don't ever leave again. We start with love, but we face hate, so let's go for it. Health workers, poor people curring, rich people contagious, kings cheating and fascism protesting. Here's what's there. The only good news of today's debate is precisely that, which is a debate, because, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it is already known that before you made the motions of censure with tricorns and pistols. So going from Tejero to Torrente 6 is fine. [[Applauds]] Mr Abascal, the left governs this country because people have voted for it. Crying in Mingorrubio. Spanish politics, and on many occasions also Catalan politics, is a free buffet in which the right always decides what to eat, and today we are eating again exactly what they want: hate and bile. With the one that's falling, here Trump's and Blas Piñar's kids are wasting our time. For PP, for VOX and for Citizens a homeland and its institutions are like a bar where they walk with their reddish wristbands like who walks through the pool of a Caribbean hotel with one of the all-inclusive ones. The best way to deal with this debate would have been for Garriga and Abascal to be left alone here today talking, because silence to fascism is not censorship, it is self-protection. But for that to happen this country would need a completely democratic right, it would need a Merkel who would have made it clear that fascism is not discussed, isolated and combated. But they don't have it. Ladies and gentlemen of PP and Citizens, do you know what the German right does when fascism, the ultra-right, wins a Länder? To veto it, to veto fascism. Do you know what you're doing? To hammer out the plaque of a tortured by the Gestapo as Largo Caballero in Madrid or to halve the aid against the macho violence in Andalusia. That's what they do. [[Applauds]] Shame should be on them. VOX, lords of PP and Citizens, is simply his thugs; simply. Mrs. Arrimadas, if you feel so bad about VOX, stop ruling with them. While in Europe the judiciary condemns the far right, here part of the judiciary is far right. When the Supreme Court, the High Court of Justice of Madrid or Ayuso and Aguado do what they do, the left makes a serious mistake: linking it to madness or futility. It is a grave mistake, first, because we stigmatize the mental diseases and those who suffer them and, second, because we forget that people like those judges and like Ayuso and Aguado do not act as a monkey with two guns; they act under the command of their ideology, with enormous obedience and discipline. And that ideology is as simple as perverse: that many always have to live worse so that a few always live better. The left forgets - we forget - that areas like Madrid or powers like the Spanish Judicial are the main laboratory of neoliberalism and right in Europe for twenty-five years and that Ayuso and company are only a few more employees, and that it is VOX who are emboldened them. [[applause]] You, lords of PP and Citizens, are the gremlins and VOX is the water. VOX simply multiplies and blurs to the right in this country. In the face of death, the right and the right flies in circles, always flies in circles, and that is precisely what is happening here today. Mr. Abascal, Married and sometimes Mrs. Arrimadas handle the number of deaths as if it were the risk premium of ten years ago. With this motion of censorship today VOX, in particular, culminates a whole cycle of noise and viscera started in May and June of this year. Protests of liberticides in wealthy neighborhoods asking for freedom in Rolls Royce, with flags and golf clubs and groups of abnormals in front of the house of some people with three small children. By the way, Mr.Abascal, if Iglesias and Montero were the brands of Galapagar, what is it, after buying a million-euro house in Madrid?, what is it? [[Applauds]] Demonstrations with the support of the civil guard leadership, with the support of the judiciary and with the support of the mainstream media. All of this, all of that, culminates here today by applying a formula that is well known in America and that has already suffered: judicial war, street feces and TV lies. That's the formula. I repeat: judicial war, street feuds and lies on TV. As simple as that, a formula that has already made frikis in the 1990s, like Trump or Bolsonaro, today rule their countries as tyrants. Here today perhaps Jesus Gil would be deputy 54 of VOX, because 53 lives in Zarzuela. [[Applauds]] Moraleja: Never underestimate a friki because maybe tomorrow he rules his country. Ridiculous today makes choices. That fifteen years ago politics explained it to us Gabilondo on the radio and today it is Cayetano Martínez de Irujo is not casual; it is not casual. In a time when you have to explain that the land is not flat, that viruses kill, that vaccines cure and that if you are going to buy bread for a while you will not occupy the house -ah!, and that ETA no longer exists -, it seems logical to have to explain what VOX is. [[applause]] Calling VOX the fairies, the sexists, the racists or the far right, and now, it's doing him a huge favor. VOX is much more. VOX is an enormous political, media, police and judicial machinery that is immoral, terribly immoral, created, fattened and financed by resentments and hatred until now never represented in politics. VOX is the political ectoplasm of phalangism, franchising, terraplanism, trumpism and social sister-in-law. VOX is to politics what the Fourth Millennium is to information. [[Applauds]] VOX is the game of the fourth cubat; VOX is the game of the fourth cubat, and so it has to be said. And look, because VOX doesn't want to rule. Now these people don't want to rule, they just want to destroy. For now, seeing Espinosa de los Monteros talking about the unemployed, Ignacio Garriga talking about social exclusion or Abascal talking about what it is is not credible, it is not, but someday they will get it. Someday they'll get to be credible to who. And do you know the best way to win for them? To ask the working class, to ask the working class, to get inoculated in bars, meters and workplaces one single idea, one single sentence, one single, a magic phrase for the entire far right throughout the world: we are all equal, all are equal, all politicians are equal. As dangerous as Falaz, first, because Anguita was never the same as Aznar, Tardà was never the same as Pujol and, for example, Yolanda Díaz will never be the same as Ayuso. [[Applauds]] Secondly, because that idea seeks only one thing: despair and abstention on the left. Under those three words, they're all the same, just pring the left, alone; the right votes for the goat. Alone. And third, because while nine years ago that same despair and distance towards the political class was agglutinated around the 15-M progressionism, today it can be agglutinated around VOX fascism. Here is how terrible and dangerous it is to let everyone settle down, because, moreover, if everyone is equal, everyone leaves and governs only one for forty years. For this reason, I go to the neighborhoods, to the neighborhoods as I grew up in, I go to the people who are watching us and who can sound good to them what the far right has said here today. To you, be in Carabanchel, in Madrid, be in Bellvitge, in Hospitalet, or in the Southern Polígono of Madrid, Abascal and company voted against the rise of the minimum wage; voted against the support of the ERTE; voted against eliminating the layoffs during the layoffs; voted against the rise of pensions; voted against saving jobs in Alcoy and a thousand more sites; voted against preserving this planet; voted against everyone loving anyone who wants to love when they want to love; voted against recognizing that dozens of women are murdered in this country every year; voted against that every week of this year. [[Applauds]] To you, student, pensioner, woman, man, migrant, autonomous, Andalusian, Madridn or Catalan, to you, whoever you are and wherever you are, VOX are not yours. They vote against you every week, against your interests, against your class and against your gender. VOX does not represent early Spain, it represents the exploiters of early Spain. You're voting for the boss who blows you up, the judge who condemns you, the homophobic who insults you, the journalist who lies to you and the cop who beats you up. That's VOX! [[Applauds]] If you vote for VOX, it's as simple and simple as if you were a sheep voting for wolves. If you are from these neighborhoods or from these worlds, you should know that the best homeland is a school, that the best flag is a toilet coat and that the best patriotism is paying taxes. From this crisis will remain the sense of civicism of many citizens and the sense of cynicism of many politicians. If the dichotomy began being during this pandemic economy or life, today it is electoralism or life. No, we're not all the same; you start by believing that and you end up thinking that M. Rajoy is Pablo Iglesias. [[Applauds]] The pandemic will leave more poor than dead; the pandemic will leave more poor than dead. And in the coming, our greatest enemy will not be the virus and the misery that will come; our greatest enemy will be greed, hatred and indifference that will bear. In the morning there will be no worse asymptomatic than asymptomatic to other people's pain. Faced with the loss of beds and staff in public health, the increase in the ratio of boys and girls in classrooms, the deterioration of public transport, the precariousness of work, the sale of cities to vulture funds, the conviction to live on tiny floors in peripheral neighborhoods, do not doubt, VOX will promote the last war against the penultimate. They're a monster that only feeds on hate. Don't give it to him. From the words of hate to hate acts, it's only two afternoons. The left must be aware, we must be aware that we represent an idea that needs to be won many times and that its survival as an alternative to government depends on it being left-wing. But what does the left do on the left? Let the left do the left is to do and defend three things, three ideas as big as beautiful: work less to work more, produce what is needed and redistribute everything. To work less to work more, to work everyone, to produce what is needed and to redistribute everything. [[Applauds]] I'm done, and I'm heading away from the government now, because how comfortable it is to have the far right to look more forward. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, what is the difference today between Felipe González and Santiago Abascal? Which one? And between Corcuera and Ortega Smith, which one? Corcuera vote for them? Do you vote for yourselves or do you vote for them? What do they gain by quieting in front of people like Corcuera or Felipe González? Forget them, let that PSOE die. What do they gain by doing a de facto state funeral to Franco so they don't get angry? What do they gain by not solving the situation of nine Catalan democrats who are savagely and unjustly imprisoned? What do they gain by planning the emeritus escape in the middle of the summer? What do you get? Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, of its fear and its complexes has been living the far right in this country for forty years, forty years! This fascism does not need your hypocrisy; it needs your courage. Abascal doesn't need to be answered here in the atrium; he needs to be answered every Tuesday with the BOE. Do it, do it, and we'll have them miles from Moncloa and not two palms, like now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u106	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Bassa Coll.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u107	It is no coincidence that Mr Ortega Smith, who defended in the Supreme Court the same accusatory account as the Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Attorney's Office, is now sitting in this Parliament. That the court, in the judgment, assumed its account of hatred and revenge with the almost unanimous applause of Spanish society meant the triumph of VOX Spain. Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez were sentenced to nine years in prison for calling for demonstrations. They have been in prison for three years, when Vera and Barrionuevo were only three months after being convicted of state terrorism - terrorism -. They sentenced President Carme Forcadell to eleven and a half years for allowing a parliamentary debate. She has been in prison for three years, while the fascist who murdered Guillem Agullo was only four and the policemen who killed Pedro Álvarez or Gustavo Muñoz have not stepped on her. [[Applauds]] They condemned the Vice President of Catalonia, Oriol Junqueras, to thirteen years, 13 years more than they will condemn the emeritus 1Juan Carlos de Borbón. [[corrupt]] [[Applauds]] They sentenced Councillor Raül Romeva to twelve years, twelve years more than those who condemned 2 José María Aznar for his crimes in Iraq. [[criminal]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] They convicted my sister, Consul Dolors Bassa...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u108	Mrs. Bassa, wait a minute, please. Mrs Bassa, I am sure that your political position can defend you without the disqualifications that you are slipping to specific names and people. If you do not want to do so out of respect for these people, do so at least out of respect for this House and for all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u109	They condemned my sister, Consteller Dolores Bassa, to twelve years, twelve years more than those who have condemned M. Rajoy 3 for corruption. [[Applauds]] By the way, it is scandalous that the sentence accuses my sister of being consellera d'Ensenyament and opening schools for October 1 when she was not consellera d'Ensenyament, but of Treball. Counselor Jordi Turull was sentenced to twelve years, while the Supreme Court sentence imposed on an Opus Dei teacher for sexual abuse was two years. They sentenced Councillor Josep Rull to ten and a half years, while they have never condemned any fascist for the crimes of Francoism. They sentenced Councillor Joaquim Forn to ten and a half years - he is already in prison more than the thief Rodrigo Rato has been - for not allowing the mossos to strike against his neighbors, as the sentence that absolves Major Trapero and the dome of the Mossos has just legitimized. [[applause]] On the contrary, the Civil Guard or the Spanish National Police did use police violence and have not been convicted, have been decorated. [[Applauds]] This is his idea of Spain, of democracy, of justice, and worry those who share the sentence because they share VOX's vision, because it is the victory of the hard hand and the repression to resolve a political conflict. It is the victory of hatred and revenge forged by the complicit silence of the majority of the Spanish left over the great lie of violence in Catalonia, through a perfect Spanish nationalist gear, where the judges twisted the concept of violence, the media twisted their feathers, their gossip and their House plans to give a false image of violence, the politicians twisted rights and democracy, exercising, yes, violence against a peaceful population, and the police twisted their power to denounce non-existent violence with invented or absolutely inconsistent evidence. Thus, the CDRs are falsely arrested and accused of terrorism, and Adrià Carrasco and Tamara Carrasco and even teachers are prosecuted police, judicial and media. Today they are absolved, but the media and politicians who spoke a lot about their detention, have spoken very little about their absolution and have not spoken anything about the persecution and suffering generated and, obviously, have questioned the falseness of the violence that they have been building for years, including media considered progressive, and on top of that they have the defachability of accusing TV3 or the Catalan school of manipulation. The Spanish media and the Spanish political class have put their Spanish nationalism before the truth and honesty. The fact that they do not like what happens in Catalonia does not legitimize them to lie, to build a false image of violence and to make us look violent and evil, because this is the breeding ground in which hatred and revenge are created that make VOX here today. The image of populations jabbering cops to the cry of 'go for them!' to come and beat us, where do they pick it up, 1 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. 2 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. 3 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. in democracy or fascism? The police in a stadium paranoidly requisitioning T-shirts and scarves for the simple fact of being yellow or requisitioning whistles to prevent the king or the Royal House from whistling by ordering the removal of a banner of Cultural Ómnium because he did not like the Bourbon, those images, absolutely normalized in this Spain, where do they box them?, in democracy or fascism? It is that many images explain that VOX is here today: those of the exiled and exiled Catalan politicians supported by European courts who consider that there is no guarantee that they have a fair trial in Spain; that of the legal espionage of President Torrent or of Ernest Maragall by the state cloacas; that of the 2850 Catalans persecuted today by the Spanish justice for political reasons, including the Bureau of Parliament and the deputies of Esquerra Josep Maria Jové and Lluís Salvadó; that of the Senate by suppressing the self-government of Catalonia, or courts by dismissing presidents overns of the Generalitat; that of Dani Gallardo, imprisoned a year ago for solidarity with the Catalan cause; that of the young people of Altsasu imprisoned and the 'all is ETA'; that of the laws bites that persecute artists and dissidents; that of the concerts and the prisons of the poor CIE who receive foreigners. This is the Spain they are creating and this is the Spain that properly represents VOX. It's no accident that VOX is here, it's caused. [[Applauds]] As a family of political prey, in front of this Spain I reaffirm myself not only in the will, but in the need for a Catalan republic and the independence of the Catalan Countries. [[Applauds]] Mr. Ortega Smith, the Supreme Court assumed your vision of Spain, but do not sing victory. After the sentence, I and millions of people in Catalonia continue to be independent and proud of a government that, between obeying a politicized Constitutional Court or the democratic mandate spelled out in the electoral program to make a referendum, decided to obey the people. Even if the Court of Auditors tries to imprison our families, we continue and will continue to be independent; despite the coups and repression, millions of Catalans and Catalans remain independent. [[Applauds]] Moreover, after all this, we are more convinced of our independence and are even more independentists. There is no doubt that VOX, like the PP, is a factory of independenceists, but, despite this, from the Republican Left of Catalonia we are going to vote not for VOX because we do not want fascism in any country in the world and because our political prisoners and prisoners, as they did in the trial, defend independence from dialogue, democracy and peace. I'm finishing up, President. Mr Sánchez, Mr Iglesias, the government of the PSOE and the United States We should face forcefully the lies, repression and cuts in civil rights and freedoms, which only fuel VOX's speech. Even Mr Casado, Mrs Arrimadas, should make an ideological and discursive turn towards democracy. Prove that it is possible to be a right-wing Spaniard without necessarily being a facha. Gentlemen of the PSOE and the PP, you choose which box you want to be in and depending on this, Spain will be democratic or fascist. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Bassa. The corrupt, criminal and sentencing words referred to the Emeritus King and two former Presidents of the Government will be removed from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u111	We have never underestimated the frikis, Mr Rufián, because they arrive here with electronic devices, put them on top of the seat, very voluminous, and then they end up making long speeches and are able to chain a few well-built phrases; they are even able to detect socially the great increase in VOX among the workers. We have never despised or underestimated the geeks, because you can end up doing a lot of damage, Mr. Rufián. [[Applauds]] Let me tell you that it makes me enjoy a little, and it has already done so for a few sessions; probably, this confession will make you stop giving us that pleasure. When I see him so worried that so many Spanish workers, so many workers, so many people who are in the polygons in different trades are betting on VOX throughout Spain, I have to say that it gives me great pleasure. When I see your concern, when I see how you alert this sectarian left to how workers are getting closer and closer to VOX, I realize that you have some political insight; but, above all, you give me great pleasure. Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Applauds]] But you have to thank me too. You said you would leave the seat to return to an independent Catalonia, to return to the independent Catalan Republic. And you also said that if there was no independent Catalonia, if they did not achieve the republic, you would assume your political responsibility and also leave the seat. That was your election promise; you promised us all that we would never see you here again. You don't go back to Catalonia or leave the seat, but you have argued it, not like Mr Sánchez, who lies to all the Spaniards and then doesn't argue it. You don't leave because you say you have to stay here and fight us. Let's see, Superman, what are you going to fight VOX! [[laughs]] [[Applauds]] Stop being essential, stop being ridiculous, there's a queue here, there's a very long list to fight VOX. If there are almost fights between all of you, you were hoping that this time would come to rise to the rostrum and even in your group share the times! [[Applauds]] But the best of all has been when you and Mrs Bassa have told the People's Party how it has to be the right, with whom they have to have the pacts. You've even shown that you're Merkel's fan. It turns out everyone here now admires the Reich, everyone! I have to tell you that Mrs Merkel is quite clear that she will not agree with what you consider to be VOX's counterpart in Germany, with the Alternative for Germany, but, of course, with you there would be no doubt, because a party like yours would be illegal in Germany, Mr Rufián. [[Applauds]] Another thing I have to say, because you have no choice of reply at this time: that you have been especially cruel to Mr Echenique, who has behaved in a very formal way during these days, when you have said that the best patriotism was to pay taxes. I don't think it was going to matter that you made that accusation to Mr. Echenique. [[Applauds]] Finally, I should like to inform you of something, Mr Rufián: the republic does not exist or will exist. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u112	Thank you, Mr. Candidate. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u113	Mr. Abascal, I have to tell you that I saw you very loose at first - at first, at first - in the replicas, because I couldn't read what you were writing and it cost you a lot, and now you're getting a little bit more jittery. [[rumors]] At first, because without hatred the truth is that you are nothing. I think - predictable - of the eighteen months. Don't worry, I've got a lot left to get to your 18th in politics. [[Applauds]] First of all, am I dressed right? Is that okay with you? To be left-handed, is that okay with you? [[Rumors]] Keep in mind that for the rest of your life there has been a lot of honor in a bandit and a lot of thief with a tie; keep that in mind. [[Applauds]] I have pointed out from his first speech the main inputs, his main ideas force. You in your first speech in the morning, many hours ago - too many hours ago -, said thirty times Spain - thirty -, fifteen times ETA - fifteen -, ten times criminal management - ten times -. By the way, they call us - us - illegitimate because we are independentists in a Spanish Congress. And when you enter, probably and unfortunately enter, the Parliament of Catalonia defending the suppression of Catalan autonomy, what will you be, what will you be? [[Rumors]] I am very upset to say this, but, as a Democrat, you will be Members defending an idea that disgusts me but a lot of people will have voted for you. As a Democrat, I will respect you, even if I don't like you very much. [[Applauds]] I ask you to do the same and stop telling people that it is illegitimate, because from there - from there - everything is fine. If you call someone illegitimate, everything's fine, and from the words of hate to the acts of hatred there's a couple of afternoons. Eight miserable times, seven times Chinese viruses - copying Trump -, five times coups, four times traitors, three times Bolivarians and twice renegade. Yes, I am a renegade of your Spain, of the Spain you represent; I am, and I say it openly. [[applause]] But you have made zero proposals for the people of this country - zero -; well, yes, you have made a whole manual for the sister-in-laws of this country for Christmas dinners - a whole manual - throughout the morning. To me, Mr. Abascal, I am happy, or not - I don't know, I have no idea - to give him pleasure. I am not going to tell you what you produce to me, I am not going to tell you, and I am not going to read you a list either - a list - because I could read you the list of the 200 000 names that have been in town for eighty years, but we would be here until you paid the mortgage of one million euros surely, surely. [[rumors.-Laughter]] [[Applauds]] What I'm going to read is a tweet in response to your star intervention today. María Jáuregui - know who she is?-, the daughter of Juan María Jáuregui, one of the people you have appointed, tells her the following: Santiago Abascal, is a lack of respect for the memory of my act that you use her name. I don't know if you'll know that my aita fought against Francoism, fought for democracy. Don't spell his name. [[Applause from the Socialist Group, the Socialist Group and the Confederal Group of the European People's Party, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in Communal, on the one hand, and the Socialist Group, on the other, on the other.]] Long live Andalucia free! Gora Euskal Herria askatuta! Long live the Catalan Countries!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u114	I give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u115	I see that yours is tweets because you first write them and then you say them in this rostrum. Mr Rufián, you have succeeded in standing up the whole Socialist Party and we have succeeded in portraying you with the Socialists, so we have already achieved one of the objectives of this motion of censure: that all of you be portrayed together. [[applause]] He is very offended - I do not know exactly what the feeling is that he is, that he did not want to reveal it - because let us say that the Members who did not want to swear the office are illegitimate and therefore sit here illegally - I go further - and he says that if we call them illegitimate, that leads to hatred. You call us machos, retrogrades, fascists, xenophobes, homophobes... and you're going to tell me that leads to love! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-21-CD201021.u116	Thank you very much, candidate. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
