ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u2	Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of dona María Beatriz Corredor Sierra, I ask dona María Isaura Leal Fernández if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u4	In place of Dolores Delgado García, I ask Don Omar Anguita Pérez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u5	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u6	In place of Don Francisco José Salazar Rodríguez, I ask Don José Losada Fernández if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u7	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u8	In place of Don Héctor Illueca Ballester, I ask Dona Rosa Medel Pérez if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u9	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u10	In place of Elena Máñez Rodríguez, I ask Don Juan Bernardo Fuentes Curbelo if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u11	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u12	In place of dona María Victoria Rosell Aguilar, I ask dona María del Carmen Pita Cárdenes if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u13	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u14	In place of Don Francisco Polo Llavata, I ask Sonia Guerra López if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u15	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u16	In place of Don José Guirao Cabrera, I ask Don Indalecio Gutiérrez Salinas if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u17	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u18	Dona María Isaura Leal Fernández, don Omar Anguita Pérez, don José Losada Fernández, dona Rosa Medel Pérez, don Juan Bernardo Fuentes Curbelo, dona María del Carmen Pita Cárdenes, dona Sonia Guerra López and don Indalecio Gutiérrez Salinas have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u19	We begin with item I of the agenda: Take into consideration the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, amending Rule 46.1, tabled by the Socialist, Popular parliamentary groups in the Congress and Confederal of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this item, as well as the following, is submitted for approval by consent, without prior discussion. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] The proposed reform of the Regulation is therefore taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u20	We turn to item II of the agenda, on the agreement on direct and single reading of the above-mentioned proposal for a reform of the Regulation. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] As a result, direct and read-only processing is agreed. I would remind you that, having taken into consideration and adopted the direct and read-only agreement, it is envisaged that the debate on the proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, amending Rule 46.1, will take place after the debate on the validation or repeal of the actual decree-laws on the agenda. At the end of the debate, the vote will be taken on all the remaining items on the agenda. I would also like to inform you that a one-hour time limit, i.e. up to 16 hours and five minutes, is now being opened so that amendments to this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure can be tabled in the register of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u21	We continue with item III of the agenda, concerning the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, it is the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 1/2020 of 14 January, which establishes the revaluation and maintenance of pensions and public benefits of the social security system. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today I present myself to your ladies and gentlemen for the first time as Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration to ask you to validate the royal decree-law guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions in 2020. This was an inescapable promise from the Government of the nation and that is why it was the first decision taken by the Council of Ministers. In addition, this royal decree-law is in line with the second recommendation of the draft agreement of the Toledo Pact, which claims that pensions should not lose purchasing power. Before I enter into this matter, and although in the coming weeks I will have the opportunity to appear before your ladies and gentlemen in the Committee on Labour, Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, I would like to take this opportunity to share with your ladies and gentlemen one of the main challenges we face as a country: the cost, in terms of inequality and disaffection towards our institutions, of non-inclusive growth. Therefore, the name of the ministry I lead is not casual. It responds to a thoughtful process of reflection and shows that our priority will be those policies that aim to help the incorporation and participation in society on equal opportunities for the most disadvantaged groups. Therefore, updating pensions under the CPI is not only a prerequisite for finding just and equitable solutions to the future challenges facing the pension system. We are bound and determined to strengthen the solvency of the system and that must be achieved by giving certainty to pensioners and workers. Finally, the increase in pensions that we want to validate today fulfils the commitment communicated to the European Commission within the 2020 budget plan for the Kingdom of Spain, as well as the agreements signed between the Socialist Party and the United Podemos. Twenty-five years after the signing of the Toledo Pact have passed this year. That very important agreement served to strengthen the confidence of the Spaniards in the viability of the system. The consensus reached there made it possible to adopt the necessary reforms to ensure their solvency. Among the recommendations of that first agreement, back in 1995, was number 11, which I am going to read textually: '... the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions by automatic revaluation of pensions, according to the evolution of the consumer price index and through stable formulae...'. The signatories of that original pact understood that giving certainty to pensioners and workers was a step ahead of any attempt at lasting reform. I trust that today we will take a step in the same direction. From this ministry, in which for the first time all pensioner groups are integrated, today we bring to this House to validate a royal decree-law that benefits more than 11 million people: about 10 million beneficiaries of contributory pensions, 450 000 beneficiaries of non-contributory pensions, almost 200 000 beneficiaries of family benefits and approximately 650 000 beneficiaries of passive classes, the pensioners who were active were pensioners. Guaranteeing the purchasing power of these more than 11 million people is a top priority for this Government, and particularly for this ministry, which, as I said in my introduction, bears the first name Inclusion. Pensioners include some of the most vulnerable groups in society. The most effective way to get them not to stay behind is to secure their purchasing power. With this royal decree-law - I said -, more than 11 million people will see their pensions increased by 0.9%, which is the inflation forecast for the year 2020. They will already notice this effect from this month, in which they will also charge the arrears corresponding to the month of January. The Royal Decree-Law not only includes this rise, but for the first time and in a novel way ensures that if inflation were above 0.9%, that possible upward deviation would be offset by an additional payment. This is a guarantee that, whatever the price increase, the purchasing power of our pensioners will be assured. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask this House for the greatest agreement to validate the Decree-Law. Our pensioners should not only be sure that they will not lose purchasing power, but also that there is maximum political consensus around our pension system, one of the great achievements of society. I'm going to give you a piece of information. For many years the percentage of people surveyed by the CIS who mentioned that pensions were one of the main problems in Spain was around 2%. In recent years this percentage has reached 15% and is currently 12%. The previous peak records of pension concern date back to the late 1980s and early 1990s. We all know how that concern was resolved: with the signing of the Toledo Pact. That virtually unanimous consensus on our pension system managed to clear up all sorts of doubts for many years. We must recover it if we want uncertainty to stop flying over our pension system. In this regard, it is my duty as Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration to make every effort to rebuild this consensus. I understand that this obligation extends to all members of this House. We cannot burden our pensioners' shoulders with the uncertainty of not agreeing on how to finance a pension system as solid as Spanish; let alone let their pensions be eroded year after year. We cannot do this to more than 11 million pensioners who, above all, expect us to be able to agree on how to make the system sustainable. There is nothing more powerful than consensus to reduce uncertainty. Today is the first time to prove it. Ladies and gentlemen, just 25 years ago, representatives of this House reached an agreement on the Parador de Toledo. Just two months later a document with the master lines of our system was ratified in this same building. We can deceiv ourselves by ensuring that the situation there in 1995 was simpler, but that is not true. It was so complicated or more than the current one and everyone left behind their particular interests in favor of a consensus that has been the great support of our system for many years. Our welfare state and its pension system are a guarantee of inclusive growth that does not forget the most vulnerable. Our commitment is to preserve the system and ensure that it continues to serve its purpose. Our pension system is solid and we cannot allow the lack of agreement to cast doubt on its solidity. Ladies and gentlemen, the rule I am presenting today for validation includes measures of significance for more than 11 million people. Given the quantitative and qualitative importance of the measures included in this Royal Decree-Law, I ask the House to validate it by trusting that we can begin a stage of consensus on our pension system that will continue throughout the legislature. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, this royal decreeley overcomes Pedro Sánchez's unnecessary and gross strategism during the negotiations for his investiture and patches an important issue for society as a whole, which urgently needs to undertake reforms in order for the Spaniards to have better pensions, adapted to the growing cost of living, and a stable public system over time. In the face of this very complex challenge, it is worth recalling the precedent of a year ago in the United States, which is now part of the coalition government, breaking at the last minute the consensus reached within the Toledo Pact, and I agree that it is essential to re-edit it, starting with its colleagues in the government's blue bank. Likewise, all economic indicators already show signs of instability, as always there is a socialist president, and I say to you, Mr Escrivá, that you have so many times prescribed control over public expenditure. Nor does it go with the socialists to create jobs, which is the only way to generate resources for social security and guarantee pensions. The data known today on registered unemployment are chilling. Also, in the dark room of the government, the tax crank is being greased, and in Asturias, the oldest and most fiscally pressured community, we know that any proposal to raise taxes in Spain will destroy more jobs and put our pension system at risk. The Forum vote will be in favour of this validation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u25	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. Secondly, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u26	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Regionalist Party of Cantabria we have always defended the objective of maintaining the purchasing power of pensions. This, together with the improvement of lower pensions and the correction of some collectives who are currently discriminated against with respect to the general rule, I believe that they are objectives that must be met throughout this legislature. The sustainability of the current distribution system is sometimes questioned, and we say that, unless catastrophic situations occur, the previous objectives must be maintained. If the system as designed is not sustainable, we will have to change it, but not the objectives. There are many formulas to achieve this, but what is clear is that the progress that will be made in the future cannot make it very difficult for this to be achieved. Retirees are a group that deserves no less and needs the support of all institutions. This decree-law is in this line, and that is why we are going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr Sayas López now has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u28	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are also going to vote in favour of the validation of this decree, and we are going to do so because I believe that pensioners do not just deserve a timely increase in the amount related to the CPI. Nor do pensioners deserve to be traded with something that is their right; they cannot be expected to expect this reform to depend on whether or not there was Government. I believe that the pensioners deserve us to have a serious debate, to have a debate seeking consensus and unity and to have it in the appropriate area, which is the Toledo Pact. That is why we need to be able to agree on a few things among all of us, and in this virtually all of this House will agree. Firstly, we will agree that pensions are a right and, secondly, we will also agree that we all want a public, universal and guaranteed pension system. From there we should discuss with serenity and unity and ask ourselves some questions. Firstly, we must ask ourselves whether a pensioner can live with less money than a worker, because that will lead us to define whether or not the pensions referred to in the interprofessional minimum wage should be. Secondly, we will have to deal with a fundamental issue, if we can maintain the pension system with a birth rate that cuts the replacement rate, with economic growth that is low and that affects employment, and with an increasing life expectancy. I'm done. Of course, I believe that this is an issue that we all share, but it is not worth specific measures, but it needs to be addressed in a structural way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, I very much liked your introduction - I think a person with your experience is going to contribute a lot to the debate we have on the future of pensions and the system - especially when you spoke about inclusion, and this is what a canary Member is saying. Canary Islands is one of the communities, along with Extremadura, which has the lowest pensions in this country. In the last ten years, both Extremadura and the Canary Islands are moving away from the national average. We have three times as many non-contributory pensions as the rest of the communities - we're talking about 360 euros - and it's not people who didn't work - worked as mules all their life, mostly women -, what happens is that they couldn't contribute. We need to move towards a public pension system that is, first and foremost, sustainable. The guarantee of the welfare state is to achieve a sustainable system and, in turn, the public pension system must ensure that it is inclusive, as you have said, because, in the end, the poverty rates of Extremadura and the Canary Islands - whether they have governed the PSOE or have governed the nationalists in the Canary Islands, each one has a discourse according to the community: either it is the fault of the canarian nationalists or the socialists in Extremadura - they are dependent on the component of the pensions and the reinforcement that they have. It does not seem logical for the public pension system to finance the maximum pension of a person who did not provide the maximum pension for the years of life he worked, but it does have to ensure that people who have 360 euros or 900 euros - as they have on average Extremadura and the Canary Islands - have at least a decent pension. And from that we'll have to see what the system is. Of course, we will support the decree. I am fortunate to be a spokesperson for the Joint Group on the Toledo Pact Commission, and I therefore make myself available to the Minister to work for inclusion in this country and to fight poverty, but above all for the dignity of thousands of people who have worked their whole lives and who deserve to have decent pensions in recent years; people who, during the economic crisis, with these unworthy pensions, helped their children and grandchildren. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u32	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today we are presented with this decree-law and two more, and I move forward as the CUP is going to have a position that we have called 'attentional abstention'. We are going to make a joint formula and we are going to abstain in the voting of the three decrees, because we understand that they are decrees that timidly improve the conditions of the popular classes, which is not enough for us. Yesterday we showed the closed fist to the king and the regime and today, specifically in the pension decree and in the other two, we will facilitate it. [[Rumors]] I'm going to focus on pensions. It is clear that an increase of 0.9% is positive and also that it is positive to equal it to the CPI - in fact, not to make that update would have been irresponsible - but for us it is not enough. The picture in this decree-law is next. While a retired person, with a dependent spouse, receives little more than EUR 11 000 per year; while a widower receives the same amount, about EUR 11 000 per year, and while the monthly minimum income guarantee allowance is EUR 149.86 per month, the special war pension for the lowest rank is more than EUR 20 000 per year, the highest is about EUR 42 000, as does a secretary-general of the Constitutional Court, who is also about 42,000 per year and even a lawyer of the Courts who is also in the same amount. While the high offices of the state, which are already paying much higher salaries, receive much larger pensions than the working people - let me tell you that neither I nor most of the workers have ever paid from the Spanish state 42 000 euros a year -, the pensions of the popular classes are those that they are. Today, moreover, you have announced the interprofessional minimum wage: 950 euros per month. This is a good measure, but if we compare it, it is certainly insufficient. For us the debate is in the value given to life, the value given to ageing worthy of our elders, the right to raise with dignity, or the right given to the army and the high judiciary; for us, or the judges, prosecutors and the military, or our grandmothers and widows.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u34	Good afternoon. Pick it up on. The first question we have to ask ourselves is: do we maintain the purchasing power of pensions with this decree? This is one of the first questions we have, not with regard to this decree, but with regard to the future, in the discussions we have. Is the CPI sufficient for the maintenance of pensions? I believe that all of us here agree that we must keep pensions, at least not go down. But one must be aware that this decree is a small, very small step. With this measure we fail to ensure the maintenance of purchasing power. This is the idea I'm coming to introduce you this afternoon. We say that it is very limited and does not allow to maintain purchasing power because it only accounts for 0.9%, which is the CPI, which has raised life in general. However, in poor households, account must be taken of how the shopping basket is calculated, because in most households with the weakest economies the basket is different from the average of the population. The basic elements have a much greater weight than in the rest of the population. I will give you a concrete example of what is happening to us in Euskal Herria. During 2019, the increase in the CPI in food has been 3.2% in Navarre; 2.5% in the autonomous community; in housing, the official figure is 1.1%, but take into account that the housing with the highest needs are the ones that have the most rentals, the ones that have the least permanence in rents and those who have raised rents unorthodoxly. Therefore, the first idea I wanted to convey to you is that we must bear in mind that in order to maintain the purchasing power of pensions we will have to think something, above all, about the lower pensions, because otherwise they are shrinking. I cannot give you any specific data, but in recent years in the Basque Country an average pension has been reduced by 6% of the disposable income in families, the relative income taking into account these inflations. I would also like to say that there is a positive aspect to this decree: having abandoned the formula of the revaluation index is a very important element. If we did not abandon this formula of the revaluation index, in fifteen years the average pension would be 20% below purchasing power, because there is a lot of difference between areas and different economies. That index is what enabled that 2018 letter to pensioners, which raised an increase of euro cents in pensions and which was the spark that blew up our pensioners and our pensioners; that spark that fueled the social protest of the population. The strike that took place on 30 January in the Basque Country has been supported by a large part of society, because it is calling on the governments to repeal cuts and to put in place measures to enable people to live in dignity, whether or not they have been able to stop at the factories or at the workplace, because given the employment situation of the majority of the population at present there is a fear of being able to express themselves freely within the workplace. I wanted to convey to you what many pensioners and people who were on strike told me: we are not making a strike for governments to fall, we are making a strike, a mobilization for our problem to be taken into account, so that the government does not, as has happened to us historically, reach a point where it looks at the black well and forgets what it promised us. To this he has responded the great mobilization that has been made in Euskal Herria and in other parts of the State, which have conveyed to us their solidarity by the hand of the social pension movement and the majority of the trade union. That is why many sectors have been mobilized, because from the implementation of austerity reforms in recent years, mainly since 2012, there has been a weakening of social coverage, and all these reforms need to be reversed. In this period of time it is true that many macroeconomic variables have improved, many fortunes have been strengthened, but most household economies have reduced their purchasing power. In this period of time the implementation of austerity policies has brought such serious social consequences that it will cost to straighten the course again, because everything has its inertia and it costs to turn this austerity inertia that has fallen on us. That is why I invite you to reverse all anti-social policies that have been implemented in recent years. It is time to reverse anti-social policies and introduce new measures that put people in the middle, people as a fundamental element to which to respond; the economy at the service of people. Finally, and to conclude, I would like to point out that this decree is characterized by non-compliance with the status of autonomy and improvement. The final provision states that the economic system of social security is the exclusive competence of the State. Please read the point concerning improvement in the statute, because they are in breach of the law, they are in breach of the fundamental elements of the statute on improvement. We demand that this be corrected immediately and in the shortest possible time. In short, we call all of you to responsibility, because this issue of pensions and poverty is an urgent one. What is asked is just, the pensioners deserve it; but the current pensioners deserve it, and especially those who are about to arrive, because we are playing the future of our society and of the generations to come. That is why our group is going to vote in favour on this point. Eskerrik asko, thank you very much, and I hope we can straighten this boat.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u35	Thank you, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u36	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all congratulations on your appointment. I congratulate you on your presence here today in order to bring forward such an important matter as that which we are dealing with with with this royal decree-law, and I wish you the future that you will have at least the same success as in the management of your previous responsibility, because this is a matter in which you deserve to be absolutely right in everything. As far as the substance is concerned, I am going to say that my group's vote is going to be in favour of this royal decree-law; it is going to be with certain critical elements, which I am going to put to you now. The preamble to the Royal Decree-Law 18/2019 - which will be treated as the third item on the agenda and serves as a prelude to this Royal Decree-Law 1/2020-, in its explanatory statement, affirms that the revaluation of pensions is a matter of utmost relevance to pensioners, and as such a right recognized in Article 50 of our Constitution, so the application of Article 58 of the Consolidated Text of the General Law on Social Security should be suspended because its text - and it says so - has been widely questioned within the framework of social dialogue and between parliamentary groups within the Toledo Pact and for the years 2018 and 2019. Of course, this statement of reasons is entirely true, only that this statement forgets an equally decisive element - and I do not know if it does so deliberately - and that is that the suspension of the effects of Article 58 of the Consolidated Text of the General Law on Social Security occurred for the first time as a result of the initiative of the Basque Group in Parliament, the Basque Nationalist Party, and precisely so that in the debate of the Budgets Act of 2018 - which was accepted by the party in the Government at that time, Mr Rajoy - this measure would be included, and also that of updating those pensions according to a formula that is also brought to this House today. Obviously in this sense it is important that these are in fact included in the background, especially since they also condition not only our own credibility, but also our own position before this debate. Of course we will vote in favour, because we have always maintained that the updating of pensions, the updating of their purchasing capacity must take place before certain, concrete elements and that they give legal certainty to the millions of pensioners throughout the State. Let me state another thing: that that debate also had the opportunity to be moved at the time from the area where it was discussed, which was the Toledo Pact, to this House; it had it, but perhaps you were not at the time. It should be recalled that, while the recommendations of the Toledo Pact were not adopted in the Commission, it is equally true that there was absolute consensus in its recommendation No. 2, which was in fact practically adopted, and which is aimed precisely - and I read - at maintaining the purchasing power of pensions. And if there was any insistence, in addition to the annual revaluation of pensions, it was that this mechanism that should continue to preserve the purchasing power of pensions should be consulted and discussed within this Commission - and so was recommendation 2, with which we absolutely all political groups express our favourable position within the Toledo Pact - and not just the development of what is laid down in that recommendation, but in all. Let me therefore point out in some way to some degree of inconsistency in the two parties that form the Government, and that I have no doubt that they are in favour of this kind of treatment, because nothing would have prevented them from having constituted and convened, on a preliminary basis, the Toledo Pact Commission in order to analyse the measures provided for in the Royal Decree-Law; not at the time of its adoption, of course, but after and before its validation. However, the haste and insistence of the parties today in the Government in the Toledo Pact at the time have not had them today and may have had them for this royal decree-law. In any case, we hope that this will be nothing more than a lapsus and that in the future this dynamic will be straightened. Finally, as far as its content is concerned, little can be done about what we already agree with, but we do believe that there are some things that need to be clarified. Generally speaking, it is necessary to clarify the terms in which the concept of purchasing power is to be realized, the guarantee of which is provided for in article 2 of the Royal Decree-Law, undoubtedly linked to the existence of the actual CPI, to which recommendation number two referred, but this debate is not peaceful and there is no consensus today on what its content is. As a specific issue, it is worth referring to the amount of maximum and minimum pensions, as well as to their contribution bases, not so much - but also - for a question relating to contribution, but because it is of particular concern to certain groups such as the self-employed, and in particular the self-employed of agricultural origin, of the agricultural element, on which we all know that they have a special impact and on which we will surely have to be imaginative in seeking solutions. Finally, I would point out, simply as an inventory, a figure, of the 1262 million increase that this measure represents, that we hope it will not be exceeded, because already - and other speakers have already referred to this - it is going to increase in some way, to increase the amount of the deficit that the pension system already has almost structurally - the Toledo Pact will have to be analysed, but which will have to be taken care of. However, I will finish with a precision, as I have heard Mr Ruiz de Pinedo refer to the transfer of social security. I would like to see this happen in the Basque Nationalist Party, but what is in the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country is the transfer of the economic system of social security, which is what successive governments have repeatedly failed to comply with in the State, and which is what we have asked to be transferred to us - and I repeat it to you too -; that is so, knowing that the content of that management of the economic system, even though we would like it to be greater, is that which is in accordance with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, and we hope in any case that that, as referred to by the Constitutional Court and its doctrine, will be definitively transferred to the Basque Government, to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u38	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before I begin my speech, I would like to make a reference to what the honourable Member of the CUP has said. In his speech he said that he had never charged more than forty thousand euros a year, and what I really find inconceivable is that what he is currently trying to do is to collect them without coming to work. That's why we've asked that, if you don't come to work, you don't cover. [[Applauds]] I will continue to advance the positive meaning of our vote to the royal decree that this Government brings. In Citizens we do not vote in favour of it being a real decree, a legislative formula that they are overly abusing; nor because this Government, in which we do not trust for the great reforms that must be put in place, does it do so. In Citizens we vote in favour because, unlike other parties like those that are ruling today, when we raise the sense of vote we ask ourselves not who presents it, but what is presented. The Spaniards know that they will always be able to count on us, with Citizens, for state issues, and certainly our pensions are. This is about the dignity of our elders, pensioners, disabled people, women and migrants, who have been waiting since December for the Government to be formed with its partners, of whom we have great doubts about their commitment to our pension system. But you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, and specifically the government, should at least come to this House today to apologize for trying to use Spanish pensioners as a currency for their investiture. Everyone will remember how they ran out to say that they were not going to raise pensions if they were not guaranteed to reach Moncloa with their partners, but we insist again: in Citizens we show our commitment to state issues and that is why today we are going to support them, but we are going to get a little involved in pensions. In Citizens we believe that it is essential to guarantee the pensions of the present - it is a question of justice, it is a question that our elders deserve - but also the pensions of the future. And how do we do that? Working, working to support a state pact, not to dynamite it, as did Podemos, partner of the government, rising from the Toledo Pact and pulling three years of work in this area. And what do we propose? Firstly, dignity for our pensioners, and that is why we are voting in favour of this decree. Secondly, we need profound reforms of the work model. Labour immobilism is what will cause one of the worst news for the guarantee of our pensions, for tomorrow's pensions. There are no decent pensions without a decent work life. And we have to tackle once and for all one of our great problems in the labor system, which is precariousness. According to the latest data we have had in the EPA, 9 out of 10 contracts signed in 2019 are temporary, 90% of the contracts signed in December are temporary. We have more than 3 million unemployed and 58% of the unemployed are women. Moreover, unemployment does not affect all population groups equally. I understand that you will also know that 52% of Roma are unemployed. Today we have also obtained a very relevant data: in January there are more than ninety thousand people in unemployment. Unemployment has affected the trade and services sectors, and more than 15 thousand people working in the agricultural sector have remained unemployed. Job insecurity and high unemployment rates deserve reforms that need to be implemented as soon as possible. From Citizens we propose to correct the temporality, we propose that the hiring be indefinite. We need to take into account the context of people who are unemployed, work with training and work programmes with employers to encourage recruitment. Moreover, if we want to promote and boost employment, what we have to do is take care of our entrepreneurs, our self-employed, our small and medium-sized enterprises. What we have to do is support them, not crush them with taxes that all they do is drown them at the end of the month and avoid employment. Finally, we must not forget, when we talk about pensions, that we must make a bet decided by birth. Spain has one of the lowest birth rates in Europe. If we do not guarantee birth we will hardly have workers who then guarantee the pensions of our future. What can we do? Or look elsewhere and do nothing or bet on a family law like the one proposed by Citizens. We plan education from 0 to 3 years and free textbooks, we raise thirty-six weeks of paternity and maternity leave and more facilities for families with children. In short, they will always count on us, and they will count on not trading with pensions, to reform our work model to end job insecurity and help our workers. We will bet on families and the promotion of birth. Minister, we trust in your professionalism, your independence, your good work, and with us you will always count on working for the present of our pensions and above all for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u40	Madam President, Mrs Giménez, as we are talking about pensions, let me say that some of us yesterday have been working on initiatives, in any case, I think it is more useful than just listening and applauding to a position that no one has chosen, and to which, despite that, we paid a multi-million dollar retirement pension, just like your father. [[Applauds]] Minister, I understand that, in the face of the ridiculous and almost insulting 0.25 % increase in the pensions of the governments of the People's Party, 0.9 % is presented as a great social achievement. In the view of the BNG, it is clearly insufficient to ensure the recovery of the purchasing power of pensioners, especially if this measure of linear increase is taken without action to establish social justice minimums in relation to lower pensions. I would like to remind you that the Socialist Party committed itself in its electoral programme - I quote - to increasing minimum pensions and non-contributory pensions to a greater extent, and we can also increase them. Well, here we do not have a proposal in line with that commitment, and we have not heard from the minister even an expression of will in this regard. We are very much afraid that we will be faced with the first major breach of this coalition government. Of course, the BNG is going to fight for minimum and non-contributory pensions to be increased, because it is a matter of justice also for the peoples and countries that make up this state. Do you know which province is the lowest pension in the entire Spanish state? Ourense, with 807 euros, i.e. 543 euros less than Madrid and 643 euros less than the highest provincial average. I hope that every time you talk about equality you will remember this. I'm done. They will understand that for us, for the BNG, raising the minimum pensions to 1080 euros without losing the horizon that pensions and the minimum wage are set at 60% of the average wage is a question of justice twice: of social justice with the most disadvantaged and of justice towards our country, with Galicia, clearly discriminated in this matter. And you will also understand why, in order to demand more decision from the Government to move forward in improving pensions, we are going to abstain because we believe that more can and should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister - congratulations on your appointment - from More Country we will support the royal decree. We believe that we should not have waited until we reached this point, and that in all the months we have had we could have approved it, but it is a good first step in the right direction. We hope that from now on we will be able to develop these measures through the usual legislative channels, and we hope that the consensus shown in this House will not remain in words alone. We have heard voices from spokesmen of very different ideologies and positions and we all agree that the public pension system must be guaranteed. Well, let's guarantee that agreement, let's shield it in the Constitution and ensure that never, in a period of weak cows, the cost of adjustment will be borne on the backs of pensioners and working families in Spain. We agree that pensions need to be updated, but we must start by updating the more than 3 million pensions that men and especially women charge under 650 euros a month. I say above all women because they are mainly women who, after all their lives working in unpaid care work, find themselves with a pension that hardly allows them to reach the end of the month. All these pensions have to be raised, as the European Social Charter says, at least above the poverty line. Much has been said about the sustainability of the pension system and we do not believe that the sustainability of the pension system is at risk solely because of a demographic issue, it is not true; it is also at risk because of a question of the productive model, and there, if we do not undertake a transformation of the productive model towards a green industrial revolution, we will not be able to guarantee pensions. It is also at risk because of the specific working conditions, and here the message is very clear: the best way to defend the pension system starts by working under decent conditions, and therefore the best way to guarantee the pension system is to guarantee contracts under stable conditions, under conditions of rights and collective bargaining of their grandchildren. Secondly, pensions have to be sustained also by eliminating absurd ceilings, therefore with a blur; those who gain the most have to contribute more, and when necessary, according to the General Budgets of the State. We believe that basically the difference between a country in which people have to live with fear and a country in which people can live calmly, can arrive calmly, is knowing that you live in a country that takes care of you, that takes care of your own, and that is why rebuilding the public pension system is crucial to rebuilding the social contract. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u43	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u44	Good afternoon, good afternoon. First of all let me begin, today that I am opening up as a Member and can do so in this rostrum, with this yellow link in memory of the fellow political prisoners and exiles who could not take up their seats as Members as a result of a totally unfair and political trial. [[protests]] [[applause]] But beyond this claim, we have here today the validation of the royal decree that the Minister has presented, and that we will vote in favour of the measures he envisages, the increase he contemplates, as well as the question of the forecast to compensate for inflation if it is higher. However, this is a timely arrangement, Minister. For us this is a very important issue, it is one of the great challenges ahead. An important but timely measure, a measure which the future of pensions requires to be bravely faced and to be faced from a global point of view, also taking into account minimum pensions, also taking into account widow's pensions, taking into account the whole system as a whole. In this global approach in the last legislature there was agreement, and therefore you would have to tell us how one of the main political groups that obstructed that agreement is now going to overcome that point of disagreement to unravel this situation. There was agreement, it did not prosper, and we want it to prosper in this legislature. Of course they will find us in the framework of the game of the Toledo Pact, with the same proactive attitude that has characterized the political legacy that I represent, an attitude also demanding, but above all with an approach of future, of global reform and of courage in dealing with this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u46	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. Welcome, Minister, and very lucky. Our pension system is sustainable and we will demonstrate it in subsequent interventions and in the Toledo Pact, we do not believe it is in crisis. That is why we are surprised by the royal decree that we believe should never have been brought here, because this should already be solved, pensions should already be guaranteed by law. The investment agreement we signed with President Sánchez rested on two pillars. The first pillar - it does not need to extend me - is the solution of the Catalan conflict in a dialogue way, at a table between the governments of the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia. The second is obviously the rescue of the social, labour and civil rights that we have been losing working classes for years. A recovery of rights is essential to give oxygen to very ill-treated working classes for decades. Pensions are so important to us that that's why we supported this government, and that's why also in the Toledo Pact, along with the United We Can, we didn't vote in favour because we didn't manage to shield the issue that we thought was to be shielded. In fact, I will then ask you whether you are going to shield yourself with this Government or not. The most needy sectors of citizenship need oxygen, and for this it is essential that economic, labour and social protection policies be implemented that are truly progressive. In this sense it is known the firm position of Esquerra Republicana that pensions must be revalued at least with the real CPI. That is why we are voting in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, as it implies a revaluation of pensions according to the CPI and favours more than 11 million people. How are we going to be able to vote against it? We will never use this as a political currency. That is why we will vote in favour. It is true that, as some previous Member has already said, it remains short, but I think we will have time to rectify because our support for this government is linked to it. We hope that it will not take too long, because the issue is urgent; just as we hope that it will be the last time we debate - as I said at the beginning - a real decree-law to revalue pensions, because we insist that in order to make a re-evaluation of pensions regarding the CPI - and I agree with the Member of Parliament for Bildu - we should see that CPI, because it is not the same as you know the CPI of a milleurist that the CPI of a person who earns 40 000 euros, especially if food, as Bildu's colleague said, rises by 3,2 %. Therefore, when it comes to equalizing purchasing power, let us consider it well so that it truly equals. This is a very interesting topic to study in the Toledo Pact. As I have already said, let us hope that this will be the last time that this has to be done by means of a royal decree-law and that it will be shielded by law and not subject to what the Government in office says. We consider revaluation to be a substantial part of the pension system and, to that end, we will demand the reform of the pensions of the People's Party and the elimination of the evil so-called sustainability factor, which, in fact, repeals over and over again every time we make a real decree-law, because, for the first time, that reform that the People's Party made shut down the pensions of the CPI. If the purchasing power of all pensioners is not guaranteed, Esquerra Republicana will not be at the side of this government - which is clear: it will not be at the side of this government - but will be in front of this government, alongside the pensioners and their organizations and unions on the street. In addition, we will be at the side of more than one million six hundred thousand Catalan pensioners, watching and fighting for their interests, and also, fraternally, with the millions of pensioners of the other peoples of the Kingdom of Spain and also, why not, with the pensioners of other European countries, such as the case of the French, whose unions are also struggling not to see their pension rights reduced. [[Applauds]] Therefore, and taking advantage of this rostrum, I would like to start putting the letters face-to-face on what the Republican Group thinks, and I ask the Minister directly: Are you going to revalue pensions by law, which would be the only way to avoid further impoverishment of pensioners? Will the sustainability factor be repealed? Yes or no? Are you going to repeal the unfair sustainability factor? Are you going to eliminate the tax relief, for example, from pension schemes? We're also interested in this. With all this we could extend for a long time, so all I want is for you to be clear that as far as the resolution of the Catalan conflict through dialogue is concerned, we will not give in and, of course, neither will the most needy people in this country be able to regain their labour and social rights, because it is the other side of the same coin. So if your answer is yes, and we agree with what you say in your election programs and with what you said before, we'll get along well. If not, we remind you that we will be in front, on the street with our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u48	Good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I will do from this rostrum with regard to the actual pension revaluation decree is to thank the thousands and thousands of pensioners who have made it possible, through a powerful and democratic tool such as peaceful mobilization, that today somehow sees the light of this decree. This is just as fair as our pensions are revalued according to the CPI. Therefore, the first thing is to truly thank all pensioners. [[Applauds]] It says our Constitution - some fellow who has preceded me in the use of the word has mentioned it - in its article 50, that the public authorities will 'guarantee' through adequate pensions and regularly updated the sufficiency - I repeat, the sufficiency - of the citizens during the elderly. It is clear that this decree is intended to be a first step in that direction, in that constitutional guarantee which establishes - I insist - article 50. That is why we hope that those parties that are self-proclaimed constitutionalists will vote in favour, because if they do not, they will once again show that they use the Constitution as a make-up for their policy of chrispation and permanent conflict, trying to somehow cover up the unacceptable of their pension proposals. Because you made your intentions about our public pensions very clear in your 2013 counter-work reform: reduction of the average pension, rate of revaluation that was just the opposite, depreciation of pensions and, of course, the diabolical rate of sustainability. Because they like to pervert language: sustainability. The sustainability factor you speak of in your law is nothing but an algorithm by which to higher life expectancy, less pension pay. It is perverse and also useless for the purpose conceived, for what you had conceived, because, in fact, it does not serve to reduce spending. You always have an impact on the issue of pensions in expenditure. For you sustainability is spending; for you pensions are spending and pensioners are spending, but for us not. For us the public pension system is one of the vault keys of the social state, which is referred to in article 1, which yesterday mentioned and emphasized the head of state and which says that Spain is a social, democratic and legal state. We have worked, we work and we will work to ensure the necessary resources, that is, sufficient for pension pay to enable the development of a decent life for our pensioners. That is our work, our commitment and our task. Our grandparents and grandmothers have been during this past crisis - hard, very hard - caring, helping, weaving nets for their children, grandchildren and grandchildren, many of whom had suffered unemployment, unemployment, eviction and even the misfortune of being poor workers, another of the scourges generated by their labor policies. Thus, this royal decree, the first of this Government, serves to do justice, but it must also serve, from our point of view, to guarantee to our young people, to those new generations of our country, that this Government of progress will work for the maintenance of the system of public pensions, solidarity and intergenerational, and will do so with seriousness and rigour. It should also serve for citizens to see that policies can be made by listening, listening to our people, in front of those who only generate uncertainty, confrontation and social alarm. Of course, there is much to be done, comrades and companions, very much; this is just a first step. The road is going to be hard, it is and it will be, but we are going to go through it working responsibly, as we have always done, but without forgetting that much harder - believe it - has been the lives of millions of pensioners and, despite that, they have had the courage to remind us that we cannot move forward in a democratic society by leaving millions of people behind. We've been talking about the Toledo Pact. We will sit on the Toledo Pact and put out the hours and the work to be done, but with light and tachographs. Sessions ended without any control, so that as in any other Commission citizens can see what they do and say their public representatives and what they defend. [[applause]] In any case - I conclude, President - this first step of the Government marks - it is to thank, Minister - a hopeful path to regain politics as a collective value, on the path of restoring that citizen confidence in politics, and it also shows us that the policy put at the service of our people can be worth more than it costs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Pita. Mr González Coello of Portugal has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean in this first speech that it is an honour to represent millions of Spaniards in this House, the seat of the sovereignty of the Spanish people. I ask God to help us all. We all want our elders to have greater purchasing power, especially when their work has already honoured the pensions of their parents and grandparents, but the question is not whether they are in favour of or against raising pensions; the problem is the very viability of the public pension system, of which little has been said today; there is currently a gap between EUR 18 billion and EUR 20 billion, a deficit that will increase over the years; it is a system of distribution that has become a Ponzi scheme because of the incompetence and cowardice of the various governments when introducing the reforms necessary for their permanence. Right now, it is virtually impossible to raise pensions without increasing national debt, without increasing the public deficit and without introducing measures to solve the demographic problem. Setting up an increase in pensions without including it in a framework of reforms that make the social and financial viability of the system possible is an exercise of irresponsibility. In addition, in the short and medium term this decision is particularly serious, when social security has been casting a deficit of 1.5% for years and when the deficit for the public administration as a whole will be around 2.5% of GDP this year, exceeding the targets agreed with the European Commission. In the long term, the government initiative is framed by the continuing flight forward of a whole series of governments that, regardless of their political colour, have ignored the increase in the dependency rate resulting from the ageing population and the retirement of baby boomers, who will continue to push upwards pension spending over the coming decades. You have made your own the old Keynes adage: 'In the long run we will all be dead'. And I allow myself to add: That this problem comes another and solves it. You have replaced a system, questionable or not, with absolute discretion. Its counter-reform has been accompanied by two new elements that raise structural expenditure: the removal of the sustainability factor - which was similar to that of Italy, Denmark, Finland or Portugal, to quote some countries - and the elimination of the pension revaluation rate. The thesis that the financing of the pension system will result from an improvement in employment rates is an exercise of voluntarism. When are they going to present to this House a plan to know how they are going to finance pensions and how they are going to ensure the financial sustainability of the system? At least make an effort of imagination. In January this year, the International Monetary Fund has warned that the system is at risk. Without concrete preventive measures, expenditure on pensions will increase between 3 and 4 % in 2050 - it is data from the Banco de España -, something absolutely unsustainable. Can pensions be raised? Yes, but this must go hand in hand with a reduction in political spending, a birth plan and, of course, a general state budget. Therefore, even though we want to raise pensions more than anyone else, VOX cannot support something that is contrary to the general interest of the Spaniards and the next generations. In addition, it is a royal decree that once again covers and imposes an ideological agenda. They are obsessed with the imposition of a new society. The current Government's migration policies promote mass immigration as a recipe against the demographic winter and as a solution to our country's economic problem. It should be remembered that, while the institutions offer this measure, more than three million Spaniards have no work. All parties on the parliamentary spectrum, except VOX, have created a myth: that immigrants arriving in Spain, legally or illegally, come to save our pensions. This is another false argument that is not supported when the numbers are checked. Despite this certainty, Minister Escrivá is a strong defender of mass immigration, whose aim is to alleviate - according to his thesis - the shortage of labour with foreign workers. He's been making sure Spain needs ten million immigrants for years. Immigrants arrive in Spain as if it were a land of promise because of the governments that promise them what they cannot fulfill. In this context, the attribution to immigration of a saving role in the pension system is extremely frivolous. This implies a clear lack of awareness of the economic and integration problems, already present in many parts of Spain and Europe, which mass immigration would entail. Therefore, we will present in the legislature initiatives to order immigration based on the real needs of our economy and prioritizing that which shares our roots, our customs and our values, mainly the Hispanic American. In this royal decree we are presented with another hammer of gender ideology. The differences in the remuneration of the pensions presented to us in cases of domestic violence are once again seeking to divide the Spaniards. We cannot accept that equality occurs only when there is gender-based violence from man to woman and is discriminated against when it is from woman to man, from woman to woman or from man to man. This equivalence in practice creates a comparative aggravation between orphans. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, between orphans. What is the fault of orphans? We warn you that such measures are contrary to article 14 of the Constitution. In short, if your option is to raise the maximum contribution ceiling, this will lead to an increase in unemployment and lead to an increase in pension expenditure in the future. If they decide to raise social contributions, which are above the EU average, they will increase labour costs, which will negatively affect the competitiveness of the economy and once again the creation of jobs. I'm done. VOX wants to guarantee a model that covers the retirement, that is viable and guarantees the Spaniards a decent pension, but not only to the current generation of retirees or trance to move on to the retirement, but also to our children, our grandchildren and the children of our grandchildren. This is a true intergenerational solidarity. In short, we do not support his proposal for a sense of responsibility, for rejecting the demagogy in which this Government has been established, for taking place outside a budget project and, above all, because it is not accompanied by any measure guaranteeing the financial sustainability of the system. That is why our vote will be abstention. In addition, we will require the Government to stop playing with pensions, to stop turning them into an object of political compromise, and to present an urgent programme in this House to ensure the viability of the system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u51	Thank you, Mr. González. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we wish you good luck and good luck in the face of the enormous challenges you face on the table: a escalating deficit in social security, a debt of more than EUR 50 billion, the sustainability of the pension system and also the maintenance of the single social security fund. We will have time - do not hesitate - to check your ability and leadership, because believe me, the real opponents will not have them in this House in the area of pensions, will have them within your own government. Not in vain, one of your colleagues in the last legislature, just over a year ago, broke the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and today we have lost more than a year in putting in place new measures to improve our pension system. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to explain to this House, and through it to the Spaniards, what this royal decree means in terms of form, substance and content. This royal decree is, ladies and gentlemen, the paradigmatic example of the tricks that Mr Sánchez has made in order to twist the institutions of the State, to alter the procedures, to manipulate the common rules of play, the legal instruments, to falsify the reality and to mislead the Official Gazette of the State; and not to benefit the Spanish citizens, that never, but to exploit sectarianly and electorally in their favor the obligations that our public pension system has with its citizens in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last Council of Ministers of the year Mr Sánchez announced the abolition of the rise in pensions or what is the same, the freezing of pensions, for the second time in his political biography, conditioning this increase to the formation of the Government, that is to say to the formation of 'his' Government, to be exact. That is to say, Mr Sánchez did not have the slightest packaging, the least modest, the least objection to using more than ten million Spanish pensioners as hostages to his partisan interests in contravention of the Toledo Pact, or what is the same, using pensions for political purposes and announcing that pensions would not be raised until there was a government. In other words, until he was appointed President of the Government. His excuse, his pretext is that his Government was in office, but all of Spain knows that its only intention was to also pressure its current partners to close this impossible, heterogeneous, centrifuge and disruptive Government. That excuse would have been easier to believe if, during the time when the Government had been in office since March 2019, it had not passed, in office as well, multiple royal decrees on social Fridays on a purely electoralist basis. For example, in office he was able to extend the paternity permit; in office he was able to reduce the allowance to fifty-two of the elderly unemployed; in office he was able to launch the calamitous compulsory time register for all enterprises; in office he was able to extend the rental contracts; in office he adapted measures to the summer or contingency plan against the Brexit or empowered municipalities and autonomous communities to invest the surplus; also the release of €45 billion to the autonomous communities by tax collection in 2019. But pensions, ladies and gentlemen, no; not that. That wanted to use it as a currency of exchange - of coercion, I would say - to convey pressure to those who wanted to vote for it, and, moreover, not to fulfil now even the commitment to minimum pensions. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish know very well that this is a guilt complex, a Freudian problem, a post of conscience left to Pedro Sánchez that morning in May 2010 in which Zapatero proposed, on behalf of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, to freeze pensions, which meant for the pensioners the greatest loss of purchasing capacity in our entire history, nothing more and nothing less than 2060 million euros, and which meant, because of unemployment and the decrease in contributions, nothing more and nothing less than having to consume the 66 000 euros that had the reserve fund created by the People's Party. Pedro Sánchez enthusiastically pressed that green button, a decision that, like Mr. Iglesias, now surely won't let him sleep at night. Damn button! He did not decide to climb them when he was playing, but when he wanted to use them with political criteria. That's why he used them as bait; that's why today he brings us this initiative, to purge that sin, as a late penance for the day when Pedro Sánchez voted to freeze the pensions. Damn button! Let's see if they forget, let's see if I forget! Damn button! Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party, even in the midst of an economic crisis, in the midst of a disaster in socialist economic policies, when other things could not be paid, always, absolutely always increased pensions; it always cared for the elderly. It never allowed the loss of purchasing power and, until the end, increased minimums and non-contributory pensions by 3 %, raised the regulatory base for widowhood pensions from 52 % to 56 % in 2018 and from 56 % to 60 % in 2019; 20% nothing more and nothing less than in two years, and the rest 1,6 %. The People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, can proudly say that between 2012 and 2019 our governments made it possible for Spanish pensioners to maintain purchasing power, at a stage that took many things forward. More pensions, higher budgets than ever before, ladies and gentlemen. And we did it with employment, with labour reform, which, after thirty-five years, modernized our labour market, created millions of jobs and brought us closer to a normalized, flexible situation, compatible with the rest of the countries in our environment. Pensions, ladies and gentlemen, are employment. Without employment there are no pensions, no health, no education, no independence or nothing. Without employment there is nothing but injustice and despair for absolutely wrong policies. They want to repeal labour reform, but we already warned them not to. We can improve them among all by debating it in this House, but do not distort it because it will undoubtedly return to unemployment. We will remind you of this every day, Minister. The data is starting to be bad, and today's data is terrible: nothing more and nothing less than 90,000 unemployed and a drop of 243,000 contributors. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will validate this royal decree, but do not forget that in order to guarantee the pension system we need, above all, a responsible government that cares about all Spaniards and looks at the future; not a government that takes away our dream, that uses pensions for political purposes and uses the more than ten million Spanish pensioners as hostages to their party interests. Let's get back to the Toledo Pact. We ask for loyalty with that social and political pact of such significance that, I repeat, members of his Government clumsyly a year ago and blew up the air, because for us, ladies and gentlemen, for the People's Party, the Toledo Pact is a priority. Stop using it as an electoral weapon and get to work now. Look at the deficit, look at the debt of more than EUR 50 billion, because this, ladies and gentlemen, is getting out of hand again. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u53	Thank you, Mr. Echaniz. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u54	Thank you, President. Welcome, Minister; we cannot agree more with your intervention, frankly. I'm glad your ministry is called Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. I think it says everything: inclusion, the improvement of the protective action of Social Security. So there we are. The Socialist Group will support the validation of Decree-Law 1/2020 by constitutional mandate, social justice and the general interest. The first decree-law adopted immediately by the newly formed Government contains a clear and unequivocal message: guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensioners, in accordance with article 50 of the Constitution, which requires duly updated pensions. It has retroactive effects of 1 January 2020, and therefore it is of extraordinary and urgent need for its approval and validation - Mr Barandiaran, the Toledo Pact is not constituted, therefore, it could not be discussed beforehand - and complying strictly with what article 86 says for the purposes of the decree-law; approved, therefore, in time and form to prevent our pensioners from seeing impaired the ability to buy their pensions until the new Law on General Budgets of the State is adopted. Revaluation with the CPI is a guarantee of sufficiency. This guarantee generates confidence in the current pensioners and, in addition, creates confidence in the more than forty-seven million people we live in this country; people to whom we must transmit who have a strong social protection system based on solidarity and which responds to their present and future needs, especially in the future, as has been done throughout our democratic era. These are the firm and solvent steps that a government must take to ensure the positive future of pensioners, and this government is doing so. How does this decree-law guarantee the adequacy of pensions? Firstly, by suspending the increase of 0.25 in the current article 58 of the General Social Security Act; and secondly, by linking the increase of pensions with the forecast of the CPI, by providing for a clause in the event of a deviation from inflation. That is what the minister said. This government is convinced that linking pensions to the CPI is to support the dignity of our elders, it is to give tranquillity to over 11 million people, it is to give confidence and security today and tomorrow. But, above all, to recover the CPI is to give back to the elderly the effort they have made in recent years to help their families when their son or daughter was unemployed, by hoisting his shoulder with his pension and savings. That's the royal decree we have in our hands. Today, experts say that adequate pensions are also an incentive to increase private consumption. Without Revaluation under the CPI, consumption and growth of the economy are burdened. Finally, we must not forget that pensions, together with the municipalities, have ensured social cohesion in our territory. Ladies and gentlemen, the guarantee of pension sufficiency is due to pensioners for social justice and for the general interest of a State which declares itself social. And don't confuse some: being patriotic is not beating one's chest; being patriotic is contributing - as Maria Moliner's dictionary says - with actions like this decree-law, so that a country is more worthy of admiration or esteem. That is what the Socialists want; we want Spain to be a reference to Europe, to the world, with a system of social protection that offers present and future to the people living in it. That is real patriotism, and that is what the socialists understand. This royal decree-law is based on an ideology, indeed, on a progressive ideology, a clear and compelling ideology. Gentlemen of VOX, we come here to do politics to build, not to destroy. This is precisely the objective of the Toledo Pact. If you don't understand, we don't start well. The validation of this decree is the first step, and we have said so; indeed, it does not extend the protective action. We will need a general state budget, but we will also need a clear and strong agreement in the Toledo Pact, an agreement that instils certainty and security and responds to what citizens are waiting for. I have not just understood the matter of careful abstention, I suppose there will be more time to explain it to us, and to Mr Salvador de Esquerra, I will tell you that this government is actually going to adopt an agreement - after the agreement of the Toledo Pact comes to an end - in the sense of reversing, in the sense of repealing the 2013 pension reform that the People's Party approved with the parliamentary roll ignoring the Toledo Pact and the social dialogue; a 2013 reform that meant a reduction of 30% to 40% of pensions in twenty years; a de facto repealed reform - Mr Barandiaran reminded - by the People's Party itself in 2018 in the face of the strong social protest and the majority rejection of parliamentary groups. And, as the minister has said, we will have to continue to make reforms from generosity, with real patriotism, dialogue and agreement, listening and contributing, putting interest - above all others - in people, an effort that will require a shared work in the Toledo Pact, ladies and gentlemen, and that I demand from this rostrum that it be an agreement in capital letters, an agreement that guarantees social sustainability, economics and politics. A pension system is a country asset; it is not one's or the other's, it is everyone's. Because without decent wages, without guaranteed pensions, a country is neither solvent nor socially nor economically. Faced with the fears that Mr Casado is infusing - what a pity he is not here today! - with his sterile announcements of resorting to the courts an alleged freezing of pensions, today there is a progressive coalition government that meets the pensioners and guarantees their pensions. Mr Echaniz, as much as you repeat it, lies are lies, and here I teach you this report that Mrs Báñez had in the drawer when she was a minister and who believes that when the most loss of purchasing power occurred it was with the People's Party. [[shows a report]] I'll pass it on and look at it. [[Applauds]] Because, Mr. Echaniz, Mr. Married - and I'm finishing - infusing fear is a most nightly right technique. I want to think that you don't want that for your People's Party today. In the face of those who impoverished the pensioners - I remind them of the pharmaceutical co-op -; in the face of those who distributed crumbs in the hardest moments of the crisis; in the face of the weakening of the public pension system - the most serious deficit occurs at the time of the Government of the People's Party, 18 billion euros, and an escalated Reserve Fund; there was no Reserve Fund -, in the face of those who generate uncertainty, we say that we have a government with a clear and firm will to guarantee the real CPI, which is committed to the support - I am finishing - and the sustainability of the system and which listens to the demands of the pensioners. [[applause]] Of course, from the motion of censure to today there is only one clear statement: the pensioners of this country are better off with a progressive government, so we call for unanimity; yes, we call for unanimity. I'm done. The Government has this parliamentary group and I would like to think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that we have its wisdom and sense of state. It would be convenient to reach a good pact in this country. Consensusing a pact will be the best news for Spain, for the Spanish and also for you, right-wing gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u55	Mrs. Perea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u56	They would give the image of sensitivity and political solvency that they have long lost. Thank you and excuse me, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Perea. Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the majority of the groups for voting in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law and for the many comments they have made. I've taken a lot of notes. I believe that many issues have been raised, the vast majority of which are for the discussion that begins now, already, and the debate within the Toledo Pact. What we are going to do from the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration is to provide the Toledo Pact with information, precise elements that will help to acquit those issues that have been raised today. I just wanted to answer a question about the rise in minimum pensions. Minimum pensions will rise above 0.9, but it is logical to do so in the context of the budgetary process to know exactly what margin there is, how it can be financed and also to agree with all political groups in the process of discussing these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 2/2020, OF 21 JANUARY, APPROVING EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF RETRIBUTIONS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR. [[File number 130/00003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u60	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 2/2020 of 21 January, approving urgent measures in the area of remuneration in the public sector. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to be able to address this House for the first time as Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Allow me to say my first words to acknowledge the work they do, my consideration and my respect for what they represent and for the great task they also do to contribute to the progress of this country. This is my initial context before this first appearance. And I do so, ladies and gentlemen, because I ask you on behalf of the Government to validate Royal Decree-Law 2/2020, which was approved, as you know, by the Council of Ministers on 21 January. Ladies and gentlemen, after assuming office on the 13th, one of the first steps taken, following instructions from the President of the Government, has been to reiterate the Executive's commitment to increase the salary of public employees by 2% as soon as possible. Thus, days after the inauguration, this government complied with the agreements of the Public Service Negotiating Bureau while we materialized the second agreement in the improvement of employment and working conditions, signed in 2018 by the previous government of the People's Party and the most representative trade union organizations, that is, Workers' Commissions, UGT and CSIF. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this validation is the result of an agreement and what the Government is doing is to comply with that agreement by the way that our legal order establishes today in the validation of this royal decree. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that, as we do not yet have the general state budgets, this increase has been approved by royal decree-law, as the conditions of extraordinary and urgent necessity that our Magna Charter establishes for this increase to be enjoyed with effect from 1 January 2020 are met. This royal decree, moreover, is a fundamental part of continuing the path of recovery of the public service, and this is because the employees and the public employees have shown outstanding commitment to the whole of a society to which they serve and to which they are a fundamental part. They, they, we charge with the education of our daughters and children, the health and well-being of our elders, the safety of our streets; they are the guarantors of equity, solidarity and also the dignity of our society. It is the public administrations at every level - municipal, provincial, autonomous and state - that have the responsibility to ensure the cohesion of our society and especially in times of difficulty. As I said since the day I assumed this responsibility, I am a public employee, I know firsthand the willingness and constant dedication to the service of citizenship. That is why, at this moment, I would like before all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to claim the importance of the public service will of all administrations and their protagonists: public employees. I think it is fair to recognize the role they play in realizing our citizenship rights, especially in the face of the situation experienced years ago where the consequences of the cuts are still well visible in some sectors of our society. It must be said loud and clear, ladies and gentlemen, the workers of the various public administrations in our country have contributed to the support of our society, together with the citizens of this country, and they and they have shown a generosity and a dedication worthy of praise and have also done so under difficult conditions, fighting against unfair stereotypes about the Public Service. As Minister of Public Service, I would like to acknowledge that crucial role that you have played, that you play and that you will play public workers in sustaining a real and effective democracy, as you contribute to guaranteeing our civil, political and social rights. They are the ones who make it possible for fundamental values of our society such as public security, equality, social justice and freedom to crystallize in public policies and services that improve the lives of our people, because, ultimately, the Public Service is made up of men and women in the service of the common good. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement we are presenting for validation is a recognition of the indispensable work that public employees do and is also a remedy. It is a remedy because since the outbreak of the economic crisis, public employees have seen their working conditions worsen: there have been staff cuts, the replacement rate has been low, and public employees have seen their wages frozen. I therefore announce to you that it is the will of this Government to continue to recover much of the rights lost over these years. That will was enshrined in the Royal Decree-Law of 21 December of last year, with which we also assured the increase in remuneration in view of the impossibility of approving the General Budgets of the State for the year 2019. This ensured to public workers that the maintenance of their purchasing power was possible with an upward revaluation of 0,25 % in relation to the GDP increase estimated at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the recovery of the rights of public employees is fair, even more so given that their working conditions have not diminished their dedication to public service, on the contrary. But I also wanted to share with you that for this government it is key to move forward in sustainable economic growth, economic growth - in the words of the president in the investiture speech in this rostrum - that guarantees decent work, stable work and quality work. For this reason, the reason that has led us to comply with this agreement to increase the wages indicated is the same for which we have increased the interprofessional minimum wage. It is a question - I say it well - of dignified work, because we believe that fair wages for employment benefit society as a whole and also the economy as a whole. This Government considers public employees to be a key factor in our society and in our economy. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons for this decision are both fair and effective, and that applies to wages but also to the rest of the working conditions, because improving the economy of our country is to do so with decent wages and working conditions that allow public employees, workers and workers to fully develop their life plan. Let me focus on women workers, as they suffer the worst conditions in our labour market. In fact, my predecessor in office and now President of Congress, Mrs Batet, already signed agreements - I think very important - in October 2018 to improve family reconciliation and progressively equalize maternity and paternity leave for employees and employees of the General Administration of the State. These kinds of measures, ladies and gentlemen, are the ones that make the difference and also represent firm steps towards genuine policies of co-responsibility and reconciliation. All this to ensure that equality between men and women is real and effective. The same could be said of the sustainability of our public pension system in a debate that has just ended. Ladies and gentlemen, better wages, better working conditions, better living conditions, more dignified pensions for our elderly, as proposed in the previous debate, simply mean no more or less than making a better Spain, they mean making a more cohesive Spain, an economically stronger Spain, in short a Spain where people live better. I will comment on some issues you already know but I want to share with all of you. The scope of this royal decree-law extends to around two and a half million public employees, covering all areas of government at all levels, as it cannot be otherwise. In addition, the economic distribution modules are regulated for the maintenance of concerted centres, since this royal decree-law also affects salaries received by the teaching staff of such centres. You also know, ladies and gentlemen, that this royal decree provides for an additional wage increase in the event that the gross domestic product reaches, during this year, at least when the INE gives it definitively, a percentage which they know well. I would also like to point out that this royal decree allows for the possibility of an increase of 0.3% in its wage mass for additional funds that allow, inter alia, improvements in productivity or efficiency and specific supplements or other measures that the administrations concerned understand. In addition, this Royal Decree, in line with the agreement, represents an additional 0.55% increase if the deficit target for 2020 is not met. I think it is important to point out that the estimated cost is EUR 3212 million. I draw attention to this fact because it realizes the importance of what I am presenting to this House today. In addition, these data suggest why the legislative instrument chosen by the Government to adopt this measure is a measure with an undeniable impact on the economy in general and is also a basic rule of the State. Hence the importance of doing so by royal decree-law, given its extraordinary and urgent need. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree also complies with the cardinal values announced by the President of the Government in his investiture speech, one of which is the defence of public services. This Government understands the public administration as the most powerful tool for realizing the citizenship rights set out in our Constitution. Therefore, this tool must necessarily be equipped with those elements that are essential to guarantee such rights, because only a quality public administration is capable of fulfilling this function, indispensable for the maintenance of a democracy like ours. Ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening and improvement of public administrations, their modernisation is a definitive and essential element for the good economic progress of this country. This Government, which I represent by defending this royal decree, is in compliance with what has been agreed, and it is doing so because dialogue is one of our signs of identity. This government and this minister understand politics as cooperation, they understand that success in politics is the agreement, because politics is dialogue and politics is the search for the pact, because only from the sum will we be able to move forward. This spirit of cooperation, which we believe is essential for the good progress of this country, is the agreement that this approval has been brought to light immediately in the second ordinary Council of Ministers in order to make it effective, as I said at first, since 1 January this year, and it is also the result of the very important negotiation with all the trade union representatives of the majority unions, which I have already had the opportunity to greet and I will soon have the first meeting with all of them. This is the best way I know, improving the conditions of public employees through dialogue and improvement in its entirety. Since the conviction - I conclude - that those of us who make up this House, all of you, want the best for our country and also aspire to make it an example of full, modern democracy and that it will face the present and the challenges that the future will face us, I ask, ladies and gentlemen, your affirmative vote for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the implementation of the agreement that led, in March 2018, the government that then presided over Mariano Rajoy and that signed the trade unions, is absolutely fair, but today it cannot make us forget the situation of workers who are not part of the public sector but belong to its immediate orbit because they are part of companies serving the administration. They were also subject to wage freezes and, however, they are subject to delays when they try to recover their wages; they are, as it were, workers who automatically count on tough decisions but are relegated to mature ones. This is the case for a quarter of the 26 000 workers in the mutual sector and collaborating entities with Social Security, who are suffering from the paralysis of the procedure to update their wages, even at risk of prescribing them, and who are victims of the fierce democratic game of passing the ball, aggravated by the readjustment of ministries and by the parsimony in the composition of this multi-government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to speed up procedures and authorizations so that the staff of the hundreds of entities listed as companies in the service of the Administration can see their salaries updated as well as public sector officials with this validation, which I will support with my vote. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u65	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. We will vote in favour of the validation of this decree not only because we agree with the form as a decree-law, but also with its content, and also because from the Autonomous Community of Cantabria we were waiting for this prediction. In the budget bill of the Autonomous Community of Cantabria for 2020, the PRC-PSOE coalition government has already included a forecast pending confirmation of this regulation in this House, and not only was 2% included, that additional amount in relation to GDP, but also additional funds and the recovery of 2017 and 2018. We understand that this is an important step towards the gradual recovery of the purchasing power of civil servants because they have also lost purchasing power with the crisis and, above all, because we are in favour of a well-paid civil service, that the benefits of civil servants will be improved, that it will also be done through agreements with trade unions and that it will always be borne in mind that the priority objective is the improvement of public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u66	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, to all and everyone. Welcome, minister; besides she is a canary minister, this is always good. I must now announce our vote in favour of this validation, which is proposed to update public salaries, for a number of reasons. A first, because since the beginning of the so-called great recession, the responsibility was to attribute to the public services; the public services were responsible for the great recession that began in 2007 and which we are still suffering its consequences. This demonisation of public services as agents of uncontrolled spending and consequently public employees as a sort of privileged beings who had guaranteed their wages has become an extraordinary degradation of public services that is absolutely necessary to recover. Therefore, this first consideration allows us to say that this decision is in the direction of recognizing the value of public services. There is no other way to ensure equal access to basic citizenship benefits, if not with powerful and developed public services. Secondly, this measure recognizes the serious damage that this kind of discourse has done to public employees, who have seen their purchasing capacity and their living conditions severely reduced. This, on the other hand, will come not only to restore dignity, but also to stimulate economic activity because, after all, higher wages will result in greater economic activity. For this reason, we will support without cracks and without any restriction is validation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Finally, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u69	Good afternoon. We wanted to comment on three issues in relation to this decree. The first is that the first article already refers to the concerted school. We know that it does so to ensure that its workers can also be paid up, but it is no wonder to remember that in recent years the concerted school has been gaining ground in the public school as far as public investment is concerned. Secondly, despite the fact that the main beneficiaries of the salary increase in this decree are sectors of the working class - whether nurses, teachers or administrative - we are obliged to vote in the same package for a salary increase for those who already charge a lot, who already charge too much and who are part of the political and judicial elite of the Spanish State, which some at the time called the caste. We already know that this in the total amount is a small percentage but surely there were other ways to raise the salary to those left behind in a consultation of a primary care centre or in a classroom, instead of having to swallow at the same time as the salary is raised to the president of the Constitutional Court, who charges about 156 000 euros gross per year, to judges of the Supreme Court such as Mr. Marchena who charge 119 000 euros gross per year or to his lordships who we charge between 4000 and 5000 euros gross per month and who, on top of that, vote in the first plenary giving credibility to that song of La Polla Records entitled The Congress of the Mouse, which said: We will have to reach a consensus and then put it in a framework and as the first item of the agenda we will update our salary. We are in favour of ensuring that those engaged in politics do not have salaries that separate themselves from the average of our society and, therefore, our representatives receive between 1500 and 1800 euros. Because when we hear about deep state - and we agree on that - we are also referring to a sector of these elites that precisely because living away from popular everyday life protects itself. Finally, thirdly, we also note that the increase in this decree is still far from regaining the lost purchasing power since the cuts that began in 2010, precisely following the actions of a PSOE government. For all this, we think that the most consistent position on our part is abstention.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u71	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Despite the negative judgment of the person who plays to be jury of La Voz, here we are again, so we will have gone round - I suppose - and it is up to us to talk about the salary increase. But, before that, I would like you to serve, at least, as a tribute to a genius who has gone away today, a genius of absurd humor - this situation too is - as was José Luis Cuerda. From there - and I focus on the subject - I want to point out that we will support the decree-law that is brought here today not because we like it too much, but because, although it has many things that displease us - and I will detail them below - it has one that is essential for us and us, that is essential for all the workers of Euskal Herria and I understand that also of the Spanish State, that it is that of beginning to reverse a dynamic of cuts and aggression that suffered the working class in general and the officials, workers and public workers in particular during that scam that called crisis and that extended for years. A crisis that led to wage freezes, including the withdrawal of extra pay and the inability to rejuvenate staff and the failure to achieve decent replacement rates for public workers. That is why, because it is possible that this wage increase can bring something more dignity to the lives of Basque women workers, and I suppose that we will also vote in favour of the lives of Spanish women workers. In addition, we hope that this measure will not be affected by what happened to one that Euskal Herria Bildu carried out when he ruled the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation in 2014 for raising the salary of his officials, who was appealed and paralysed. Those are the reasons that also push us to ask for more sovereignty, to ask for all sovereignty, in order to be able to make decisions that improve the objective conditions of dignified life - as has been said in this debate and in the previous one - of people. That is why, just as we are in this Chamber now saying what we are saying, we went out to the streets of Euskal Herria listening to the vice president when he told us that we had to mobilize, and that is why a general strike was called, and the general strike spoke of decent wages, decent pensions and decent lives. As I have already said, this is a small, timid step that could be much more ambitious, but it is a step towards the 1200 euros minimum wage that we demand for the workers and it is also a step so that we can cover minimum pensions of 1080 euros that we defend for the pensioners. Because without decent jobs, without quality and decent wages, without a real and effective distribution of wealth, it will be difficult to cover decent pensions. Now, as I said, we do not hide that there are many things that we do not like: we do not like to continue to limit the capacity of the autonomous communities to implement above these percentages of increase. Nor do we like the fact that this decree-law mixes many things that little or nothing has to do with it, because little or nothing has to do with the reality of the civil servants, the public workers of the lowest scales, with the wage conditions, for example, of the Spanish state judiciary, who have salaries that are scandalous. I don't know if they work a lot, they're very productive and that's why you have to earn everything you earn. But there is one very basic thing that should begin to apply also in the Spanish State, and that is that it cannot be treated in the same way as unequals because that perpetuates injustice and certainly does not get us to progress in the eradication of inequality. If we treat the same person unequally, everything will remain unequal. We will certainly fight to change it and we will also fight for this rise to be disconnected, if possible, from the evolution of GDP, which is another of Damocles' swords that hangs over this decree. Finally, I will tell you - and you have already seen it - that we have not come here to please anyone in particular or to give anyone their ears. What we have come to do is to defend the interests of the Basque workers. We believe that this can be done in an effective and real way without assaulting, without harming the interests of the working class of the Spanish State, because, in any case - and I have already said this on more than one occasion from this rostrum - that we do not belong to the same nation does not mean that we do not belong to the same class. Eskerrik anitz, esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President, and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As a year ago, we re-debate another decree-law to urgently approve staff salaries at the service of public administrations for the 2020 financial year, as we did before for the 2019 financial year. In both years the measure has been justified in the budgetary extension situation and in the correlative need to make it possible to increase public sector salaries at all levels of the territorial power of the State. Both decree-laws have also been justified in the need to comply with the government-union agreement for the improvement of public employment and working conditions between 2018 and 2020, years in which there is a fixed linear rise, an additional one and a variable percentage linked to the growth of the economy to be collected in successive budget laws. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context and given the subject covered by this Decree-Law, the Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of it, as we did last year, without prejudice to the fact that this vote is once again a critical vote, because, despite the fact that the Decree-Law in its preamble states that it is limited to regulating those aspects which are indispensable in order to approve with effect from 1 January the increase in remuneration, it then envisages a wage increase linked to the increase in the economy in terms of gross domestic product compared to the previous year, payable with effects deferred to 1 July and that it will require for its implementation a subsequent agreement of the Council of Ministers. That is why this reference in the Decree-Law to a variable pay increase to be made within six months is, in our view, devoid of the precise and proper connection with the situation of extraordinary and urgent need demanded by article 86 of the Constitution as an enabling budget for the Government to issue provisional legislative provisions. This retributive measure should therefore be deferred at the time of the adoption of the 2020 Budget Act or, where appropriate, to a future decree-law close to those mid-year dates, but not six months earlier. On the other hand, our position regarding the decree-law is also critical because it does not contemplate the possibility, also agreed in the agreement signed with the unions in 2018, of an additional increase of 0.55 in the year 2020 and add other salary increases in those public administrations in a situation of budgetary surplus in the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen, in another matter, I would like to point out that this decree-law, as regards the increase in salaries in the public sector to which we are referring, states that it is issued under the competence of the State to establish the bases of economic activity and for the coordination of the various public finances and with that of the State. Also, with reference to and support for these competition titles contained in articles 149.1.13 and 156.1 of the Constitution, the current Budget Act has established a multitude of limitations in public employment policies that have been dragging forward for more than a decade, which has determined that not only are many aspects of public pay uniform, but also that they are uniform, on the basis of these same competition titles, public employment offers, replacement rates not only relating to global amounts, but also by specific sectors and groups, the rates of stabilization of interim staff and the rates of new staff, both civil servants and workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group believes that it is necessary to address as soon as possible all these uniform limitations on the public employment policies of all public administrations at the various territorial levels of the State, which weigh - as I said - on all administrations and also on their public sectors and which in each government and public sector should be linked to the fulfilment of their debt and stability objectives. Madam Minister, we are confident that we can address these issues at the time of the debate on the 2020 budget bill, which we are now dealing urgently with one of its aspects, the remuneration of the public sector, and without the limits contained in the draft budgets that the Government sent us for 2019 and which was finally rejected and returned. We are confident that these demands of the Basque Parliamentary Group can be met throughout this year when we have the opportunity to discuss the draft budgets. Thank you very much, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, minister. As this is my first intervention in this Chamber, I would like to tell you that it is a real honour to be in it - this is the first time I have spoken here - and that you will find me for everything you want and for everything you do for all the Spaniards. In my opinion, we are here for this and that is what I am going to do from this rostrum. On the other hand, today we are discussing the validation of urgent measures in the area of public sector salaries, that is, the well-deserved increase in salaries for civil servants. Let me advance the citizens' vote on this measure. It's a matter of justice. In Citizens we have been chasing her for a long time and, in addition, we know that all Spaniards did - many sacrifices during the management of the crisis and that it is fair that they begin to recover their retributive capacity. Public officials are the most important asset of our public administration, they are its human personnel, and among them I tell myself. It is also fair to remember that this salary increase is the product of the management of another government that Citizens supported in May 2018. Almost two years later, the Government brings us this royal decree that shows weakness and an eternal provisionality in which we seem to be moving. Well, we will vote in favour, as I have already said, but we have deep disagreements with the Government. [[The Lord]] First, as for the shape. The Government compulsively uses the royal decree. The royal decree is a prerogative that the Executive has to issue rules for extraordinary and urgent need. It is a prerogative recognized in article 86 of the Constitution and is therefore legitimate. But if everything is urgent, nothing is. Therefore, ruling on decrees we believe is an undemocratic measure. Now I turn to the socialist bench: how different this would be if you had come to the 221! This could have been done on a regular basis and by consensus. Well, it wasn't like that. Sanchez chose his partners and from those dusts, these muds. As I said, this formula shows a clear weakness of the Government; a Government that depends on populists, nationalists and tides of interests so diverse that they become incompatible with each other and that they will be impossible to reconcile. Last week we saw a clear demonstration of the weakness of the Government when Mr. Rufián marked the same government agenda. Look at the weakness of the government! Secondly, let's talk about public spending; let's talk about the gigantic government superstructure they're doing. It is not in vain here that we see so many armchairs that they are almost no longer fit: twenty-two ministries and four vice-presidencies. Evidently, everything to please your United We can partners. And they also have another record, the general manager's finger appointment record. Public officials are not taken into account for such appointments. That is why we believe that yes, today you will be able to come and hang the medal, obviously, but you are not treating public officials well. And we'll also talk about the officials. Do you know what worries us many officials throughout Spain, among whom I tell myself? Being able to work on equal terms, something as simple as that. Do you hear the salary matching of the State Security Forces and Corpses with the autonomous police? Well, that's what it's about, working with equality. Many people who are preparing for opposition today also do not understand that there are inequalities in access to the Public Service, especially through language barriers. It is also happening due to pressure from its PNV partners in the Basque Country, but also ex novo is happening in the Valencian Community and Balearics, and we cannot allow it, in Citizens we will not allow it. Well, what we are going to ask of the Government is an urgent reform of the civil service. We are talking about equal opportunities for any official to work in the same conditions throughout Spain - I think this is not nonsense - and also a reform that creates a genuine career based on the principles of merit and capacity. The public administration must serve citizens rather than an ideology or a political party. If you let us debate with more democratic formulas than the real decree, we will work hard to professionalize the public sector and that cases such as the placements of ex-ministers do not happen, that everything is governed precisely by merit and capacity and that the citizen is served, not an ideology. In short, and finally, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we will vote in favour of this measure, we consider it fair, but we will show reticence and discrepancies, first, as regards the compulsive use of the royal decree, because we do not think it appropriate and, second, in the savage increase in public expenditure that we will pay all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u76	For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u77	Good afternoon again. The decree that is intended to validate incorporates a necessary but clearly insufficient increase for public employees, basically because it does not allow to recover the purchasing power lost in the years of wage freeze, more than 13% between 2010 and 2018, period when the agreement was signed with some trade unions in the sector. And I say correctly with some because it was not with everyone; the Galega Inter-Union Confederation, the majority union in Galicia, did not sign it precisely because it was not possible to regain purchasing power and because it was not possible to recover labour rights stolen during previous years. Furthermore, we do not understand that the possible update above 2% is linked to GDP and not to the CPI. They are therefore faced with a measure that does not repair the injustice committed with public sector workers. If it is possible, the fact of being able to contrast in a single decree the wages of the public workers with those of the dome of the Judiciary puts this more in evidence than we say. In this case, they are supersalaries that almost duplicate that of the President of the Government and multiply the most common wages among public workers. We are faced with a salary treatment that marries that judicial caste, which has unfortunately become famous in recent times for decisions that curtail public rights and freedoms. Citizens who see these pay tables will easily come to a conclusion: everything for the caste and very little for the workers. The decree also incorporates the necessary items to support wages in private-concerted centres. The BNG defends public education and it is contrary to the fact that with the money of everyone and everyone we finance private centers. We defend - and I conclude - that all the teaching workers - logically, also those of the concerted - must be paid and their wages raised. We insist that what is proposed seems to us insufficient, but in the case of education we hope that we will start to walk contrary to what has been done and that public resources for public education will be prioritized. For all these reasons, we shall abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u78	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue to give the floor, I would ask that we all remember that we cannot take pictures with mobile phones in the Chamber. Let us bear that in mind. Let's keep going. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, welcome. I wish you all sorts of luck in your performance. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to do the things you pay us for. They pay us to make a government and they pay us to legislate. That's why I'm saying it's about time we got here. Compromis will vote yes to the three royal decrees, of course. We have always shown that we are pragmatic; we always prefer to take a step forward rather than to think of the steps we might have taken if more had been done. Of course more could have been done on the issue of pensions or public workers, but of course we will vote yes. We will vote yes because it involves redistributing 4 billion between pensioners and public workers and, in addition, that the inter-professional minimum wage rises to 950 euros. We will vote that workers, workers and pensioners should regain purchasing power. These are the things we were voted for and these are the things we should do here every week. And, meanwhile, let the right-hand man entertain himself on weekends playing brave little soldiers, with his Pin and Pon or his Venezuelas. The others, to move forward every week, which is what they voted for. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u81	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this first speech in this legislature I would like to remind you that, from our perspective, it is a shame for all of you that there are still political prisoners and political exiles in the Spanish State at this time. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Thank you very much. Secondly, Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment and wish you every success in the ministry you now have the responsibility to lead. Our group will vote in favour of this royal decree, beyond the fact that in the following royal decree I make some observations on the use of this legislative measure compared to others. In any case, this is a real decree-law which aims to implement a second agreement between the government that existed in the first quarter of 2018 and the majority unions, and which implies a wage increase not only to public officials and workers, but also to those of the concerted centres, which we had supported in previous exercises and which we will support in this exercise. However, I would like to make an observation and a request, Madam Minister, even if it is not strictly your negotiation. In the impact report attached you quantify the budgetary impact of this royal decree, in the maximum case, at EUR 3200 million. Of these €32 billion, slightly over 1800, which is 57%, is budgetary impact on the budgets of the autonomous communities; 17% on the budgets of local corporations, and the central government as a whole, with social security and public enterprises, does not reach 25%. Why am I telling you this figure? Because the biggest budgetary impact lies in the budgets of the autonomous communities. Some autonomous communities have approved the budget, others still have the budget awaiting approval, as is the case with the central administration. We have been in the legislature for a month and we would like to know when and in what terms the objectives of budgetary stability will be presented; objectives of budgetary stability that have their impact on the sharing of deficit targets between the different levels of the administration. I have already told you that if you were the ones who had pending, it seems to us that you are not going to be fair in relation to the autonomous communities. Here they are charging 57% of the cost of this measure to the autonomous communities. Let's see what percentage of deficit targets you allocate to the autonomous communities. This can be presented now; this is not the budget, it is the pre-budget step. Under normal conditions it would already be presented. We were in a hurry to vote for the government, we were here on the day of Reyes's riding to vote for the government; it was a month before we returned to this House and we hope that it will not be a month before you bring us these debt targets, which will mark a first line and the sensitivity of the new government towards the autonomous communities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u82	Thank you so much. Next, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mr Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u83	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Welcome, Minister. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Without decent employment there are no public services, without public services there is no welfare state and without welfare state there is no democracy. I think it's that clear and simple. This wage rise, which was won by the workers and public workers in a multitude of assemblies and street mobilizations, makes us a better country, first, because it improves the working conditions of all those people who get day by day that the country works and that we can live safer and quieter. The health personnel, who are hundreds of thousands, for example, the professionals who are currently managing the first case of coronavirus in our country in La Gomera to avoid its contagion to the rest of the population; the firefighters' teams who yesterday were at Barajas airport willing to play their lives if they needed to attend the emergency landing of the Air Canada plane, with 130 people on board, all of them are public workers. Or the military and extinction services that were last summer in Gran Canaria playing life also to take care of our mountains and defend them. Or the State Security Forces and Corpses that come when a sexist aggressor puts the life of a woman or that of her family at risk. Either that of teachers and teachers or other education professionals in general who care and educate our daughters and children so that they can be free, even if there are Nazis here who bother them. Just here yesterday, right behind me, there were two girls who belong to the royal family, who have guaranteed education and who, when they get malitas, a doctor attends to them immediately. And that sounds great to me, I don't have a problem, but I want the girls and the boys in my neighborhood to be exactly the same. [[Applauds]] I want that guarantee for the little boys and girls of Taco, Ofra, Fasnia, Fuerteventura, Carabanchel, even for those of Verín, for any part of the country; I want exactly the same guarantees. We do not want more than them, but neither do we, and I sincerely believe that democracy consists in this, and that is why we bring here this royal decree-law. Public employment also implies things that may sound less heroic, but they are very much needed invisible jobs so that we can live decently. I am referring to all people who collect garbage and clean our streets every day, who get drinking water to our homes or who work trying to ensure that dependent people, people with disabilities or people with functional diversity can have the same guarantees of rights as the rest, and I could give thousands more examples, but I don't have that much time. The millions of people who work in the public sector - I repeat, millions - are the heart of our democracy, without them we would still live in caves, literally. That is why, among many other reasons, privatizations are so perverse, because unfortunately, many of the jobs that I have just named are carried out by outsourced people, with precarious contracts and wages of misery, people who, in addition to having worse conditions of departure, will also not be able to enjoy this salary increase that we are voting today. This is a direct consequence of the outsourcing of public services, of privatizations, of dismantling our democracy and selling the country to hides, because those who beat each other in the chest with Spain, go from patriots and remind us every day are the same ones that privatized AENA and sold our airports to foreign capital - our airports, with firefighters inside, like yesterday they were waiting to play their life - are the same ones that sold Endesa to the Italians, those who sold Alcoa to the Americans, those who sold our homes to foreign vulture funds or our health to the chiefs and owners of private health, the private sector; water, garbage, transport, sold everything. [[Applauds]] They prefer a multinational that pays Delaware a taxi driver who pays his taxes here. If it were for you - I am clear, and I mean you, in case there is any doubt - the only thing that would remain in this country without privatizing would be the stick of the flag. [[pointing to the right of the Chamber]] Another reason why this rise affects the entire country is its direct impact on the real economy. If the country's wealth is concentrated in very few hands, the only economic fabric that will benefit is that of yacht sellers, luxury jewellery and Ferrari, Porsche and Lamborghini dealers, while, if the wealth is redistributed among those who create it - and not among those who steal it - the consequence will be that it will be better for them to go to the fruit shop of the neighborhood, to the corner bar, to the guachinche, to the bookstore, to the hardware store, because there will be more purchasing power in the population and, therefore, more money in movement, that will help to improve the accounts of self-employed and small entrepreneurs, who give life and services to our neighborhoods and our peoples. [[The lady]] Finally, although I think I have just given enough reason to vote in favour of this ascent, a detail: in the Constitution, apart from putting Spain on the cover and that we have a yellow and red flag, it puts more things, and I will quote textually. Article 128: 'All the wealth of the country in its various forms and whatever its ownership is subordinated to the general interest. Public initiative in economic activity is recognized. By law, essential resources or services may be reserved for the public sector, especially in the event of a monopoly, and the intervention of undertakings may also be agreed upon where the general interest so requires. ' Let's see if among so many of you living in Spain and living the king gives them some day to read the Constitution and help us to comply with it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u85	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Darias, from deep institutional respect, I want to begin by asking you a question, and it is how you have allowed the Minister of Finance, Montero, to hide behind your portfolio today so that you do not appear properly before this House today to defend the royal decree-law that is submitted to our consideration. You, despite being recent in the Executive, should know for your previous responsibilities that, despite carrying out and holding the portfolio of Public Service, this royal decree-law is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, to which the increase in personnel costs is subject. [[Applauds]] So we fully understand that the Minister of Finance does not appear today, precisely in order not to give a complete answer to some of the questions I am going to raise and, above all, to the abuse that they are committing from the Socialist Executive not paying the funding due for more than EUR 25 billion in VAT for 2017. In 2011 the first popular government, presided over by Mariano Rajoy, inherited a Spain in bankruptcy, the result of the disastrous and irresponsible economic management of Zapatero. The bill was paid by all Spaniards, but the first to be required to make an extraordinary effort to return to the path of budgetary stability was precisely to public employees. Thus, just eight days after taking office, the Rajoy Government adopted a royal decree-law freezing the salaries of staff serving the public sector, a measure that added to the 5 per cent reduction in public salaries imposed by the Zapatero Executive in 2010. Our public servants had to assume the consequences of disastrous economic management, excessive political spending, savage corruption, oversized administrative structures; and so they did - and I agree with you, Minister Darias - and they did so by assuming the cost of having to endure not a few insults and stereotypes. But what is essential: our public servants assumed that bill without diminishing the quality and excellence of the public services whose management they had and have entrusted. That is why, because it is fair for us to do so, the parliamentary debate on the rule that the Government is submitting to this House today must be based on a finding that must not, of course, be obviated, which is the time to comply with our public servants, because when we need them they complied with and for Spain. Allow me on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group to convey to you our deep thanks. I could conclude this intervention with a simple question - although I am not going to finish it now - and it is if the actual decree-law that is submitted today to the consideration of this House properly complies with our public servants. The answer is no, categorically not, and that is why I am already in advance of you, among other considerations, that the VOX Group will take the position of abstaining in the subsequent vote. Madam Minister, by studying and analysing the various positions that the Executive could adopt today in defending the royal decree-law, it was of course very difficult for me to imagine that they would attribute as a merit of this socialist government the norm that we validate today. He has forgotten to mention that it is the result of an agreement that was reached with the unions in March 2018 and that, therefore, no merit has this socialist executive in the norm that we are approving today. On the contrary, it responds to the inability of the Sánchez Government to bring into this House general State budgets, which is the second reason why our parliamentary group is going to abstain, because we do not have a responsible and serious forecast not only of expenditure but also of public revenue. Who was going to tell the former Minister of Finance, Montoro, whose verbal mordant today will certainly miss much in this House, that his budgets would survive the political purge of which he was subjected, to the point of becoming - and to this we are going - the longest in the history of Spain. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the VOX Parliamentary Group cannot in any way support the actual decree-law in the exact terms on which it has been brought to this House, as it is not before or after a bill that allows us to introduce appropriate amendments. We have the feeling that Minister Montero was confident that parliamentary groups would not read the rule that was brought to the House's approval today, but the VOX Parliamentary Group has done, read it and studied it very carefully, and I will therefore highlight four points for which it is absolutely unacceptable to adopt the real decree-law in the terms in which it is being done. First of all, Madam Minister - and I hope you will transfer it properly - they have excluded from the concept of the wage mass of public sector workers the concept of social action expenditure. You're completely irresponsible. They have removed from the preceptive control of the Ministry of Finance an item as important as the expenditure of social action, and, bearing in mind that this concept integrates - among other categories - training, the question that I would like you to transfer - although we will do so in the relevant Commission - to the Minister of Finance is whether your will is to implement a fund of reptiles at national level. Secondly, Madam Minister - and we agree here with some of the previous speeches that have been made - what are you doing bringing to this House an absolutely proportional rise in wages, and not progressive, so that the fall in wages was progressive in the public sector? What are you doing bringing to this House an increase in salaries which, at the dawn of being next to our soldiers, our teaching staff, our health personnel, our State Security Forces and Bodies, of each and every group that integrates the concept of public employees, includes - and here we have five leaflets of public societies to which it affects - an increase in the corresponding salaries of presidents of state public societies, who receive more than 200 000 euros per year? We will not enter at this time into the curriculum vitae of some of them, such as that of the President of Post Office, whose only merit has been to be the chief of staff of Pedro Sánchez in the previous legislature. [[Applauds]] We consider it unacceptable, Madam Minister - and I hope you will transfer it properly to the Minister of Finance - that public sector management should receive their bonus, the variable remuneration, which amounts to 30% of their annual salaries, when public companies are in loss. And this is what today contemplates the royal decree-law that they submit to the consideration of this room. Finally, there is a fourth point which is totally unacceptable to this parliamentary group, which is that you, Minister, have eliminated the prohibition that used to be imposed on civil servants to receive what are called atypical income, that is, a share in fines, taxes and commissions. You will understand that, having had the previous experience of investigating a public society, such as Mercasa, investigated at the National Court for the payment of alleged illegal commissions of more than 20 million euros, I can attest in first person to the dangers they open up when they allow public officials to receive part of their remuneration in that regard. Did you know that, Minister? Something tells me yes. For these considerations, the position of the VOX Parliamentary Group will be that of abstention, because, with greater abundance - and I conclude already, Madam President - we can ensure that the royal decree-law that today is subject to the consideration of this House is in no way next to our public servants. We will talk to you at the time and in the relevant committees about the need to meet the proper and just demands of our prison officials, the State Security Forces and Corpses, the collective administration of justice and, equally, of our Armed Forces, whose personnel council has announced a retributive rise, but, of course, it is not the one that is currently being contemplated; and so with the just and legitimate wage equality that our State Security Forces and Corpses have been claiming for more than thirty years, as well as our prison officials. It is unacceptable, Minister, that at the dawn of this royal decree-law we hide and abandon once again our public servants. That is why our position will be that of abstention, although we ask the rest of the parliamentary groups to support us in our request to treat this rule as a draft law, something which, as you know, does not invalidate the fact that it comes into force from the time of its publication in the BOE, precisely in order to get out of the roll imposed on us by the Socialist Executive and to be able to introduce through amendments the necessary improvements that I have put forward and others that they consider relevant. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I congratulate you on your appointment and wish you, for the good of all Spaniards, luck and success in your decisions. I anticipate that we are going to vote in favour of this real decree-law on urgent measures in the area of public sector remuneration that has just been presented to us, and we are going to vote in favour because it is an alternative to the Socialist Government's inability to present and approve General State Budgets for 2020, which is where these measures should really have been included. As I said, it is a technical alternative that complies with the agreement for the improvement of public employment 2018-2020 signed in March 2018 by the People's Party government with the UGT, Commissions and CSIF unions, an agreement on the remuneration of officials in which I will then go into detail. [[Applauds]] But I have to tell you, this is the end of the good news for you. Besides, I'm sorry to tell you that I have to give you two more news and that you're probably not going to like either of them. The first is that you are going to have a lot of work, and I hope that the eleven senior officials and the eight advisors in your ministry will not give enough to deal with everything that comes over you as head of the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service. In the part of territorial politics I will not enter, but the meeting of his boss last morning with the disabled Torra, who continues to believe himself president, the balances to continue to have the support of those condemned by sedition, who, far from repenting, say with pride that they will do it again, or try to torpedo the autonomous communities ruled by the People's Party, of course, are not easy tasks. In the civil service part, you have more than enough to manage the Government of Sánchez: a President of the Government, 4 Vice-Presidents, 18 Ministers, 30 Secretaries of State, 50 Assistant Secretaries, 54 Cabinet Directors, 136 Directors-General, 21 Technical Secretaries-General and almost 250 Advisers. What is amazing is that this morning's employment data has been so bad despite such public-money hiring. 244,000 jobs have been lost, which has been the worst since 2013. By the way, minister, is it true that this government costs the Spanish 24 million more than the last government of the People's Party? And another question with regard to appointments: Is there really no one among the career officials prepared to assume any of the twenty-four directorates-generals that you have appointed to your finger, jumping over what is laid down in Law 40/2015 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, which, by the way, approved a Government of the People's Party? Does the minister have anything to say to Fedeca's accusations about her Government's lack of interest in having a professional and independent public administration? Let me also, Minister, tell you about other public servants that you have forgotten here. Why not include in this royal decree-law the 247 million euros for the salary equalization of the Police and the Civil Guard for the third tranche of the wage equalization agreement, as well as the 66 million euros for the salary increase of prison officials? Our group would like this royal decree-law to be treated as a bill including, as I say, this just historical wage claim that we have always supported from the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The second news I was referring to, which is not good either, is that you can no longer take advantage of the work of the People's Party. Almost two years later you can no longer stretch the rope, it no longer gives of itself; now it is you who have to bring something new. Let me explain. The penultimate thing a socialist government did for civil servants was to cut their Christmas extra pay and reduce, on average, 5% of the civil servants' remuneration in 2010; therefore, consolidate that down payment and cut the 2011 summer extra pay. It was the PP government that signed with the UGT unions, Commissions and CSIF a three-year public sector stabilization plan 2017-2019, the aim of which was to reduce the temporality to 90% in those three years, stabilising more than 250 000 temporary places that would become fixed: 129 700 associated with health, almost 99 000 teaching and 8600 to the Administration of Justice. It was the People's Party government that signed with the unions the agreement for the improvement of public employment 2018-2020 that you bring us here today, an agreement on the remuneration of officials that for the first time contemplated a fixed component and another variable that was linked to the fulfilment of the objectives of economic growth and deficit and that allowed wages to rise to 8.79 % in three years if certain objectives were met. With this agreement and with the increases of the years 2016 and 2017 the officials would gain purchasing power, partially recovering the cuts executed by Zapatero in 2010 and 2011, approved, by the way, with the vote in favor of Pedro Sánchez. And the last thing a socialist government has done for officials has been to generate uncertainty and contribute with its inaction to the slowdown in economic growth, from the 2.6 that we grew in 2018 to the 1.5 or 1.6 estimated for this year, which will prevent public employees from benefiting from an additional 1% increase that was foreseen in that agreement if we grew to 2.5%. In short, the only thing that depended on you is the only thing you can't do. These two three-year employment stabilization and pay agreements are a historic milestone, but they have already been overtaken, and now it is up to you to get to grips with further progress in recovering the rights of our employees, rights that have been cut short by a socialist government with the vote of which it is now president, and rights that have been trampled on by the nepotism of a left-wing and far-left coalition government that historically always pre-empts the affinity of the regime to merit and capacity. And that's why I'm telling you that he's gonna have us in front of him. My parliamentary group and the People's Party will always stand by our public employees, defending a professional, impartial and independent administration, where the principles of equality, merit and capacity, and not political affinity, are those that define the career of our officials. As I have already started, Madam Minister, I congratulate you on the appointment and, above all, since you do not have an easy task, as I said, but complicated, wishing you success and luck, for the good of all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u88	Thank you, Mrs. De Luna. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Minister, welcome to this plenary. Congratulations on your job, in which I am convinced that you will do a magnificent job. Allow me, however, to say my first words to thank you for attending this debate and this plenary session of the trade union representatives of the Civil Service who are accompanying us from the rostrum this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this decree-law shows that the Socialist Party is fulfilling its word and that the progressive coalition government is fulfilling its commitments. The Government undertook, just to take possession, that one of the first steps it would take would be to raise the wages of employees and public employees in order to continue to comply with the agreement for the improvement of public employment. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, spokesman for the PP, that this agreement broke out with a government of the People's Party, the same government of the People's Party that punished public employees with wage cuts, with rights cuts, with staff cuts; that is, always with the excuse of the crisis, that excuse of the crisis that served them, in short, to impose their ideology, which is nothing other than the loss of public services. Because the right has never believed in public services, the right has always tried to weaken public services, and there is nothing more to see how they continue to do so where they govern. [[Applauds]] It was the former socialist government, that of Pedro Sánchez, that developed the agreement and it is the current progressive coalition government that continues to implement it and that is fulfilling it, as is demonstrated today by this royal decree. Ladies and gentlemen, not a month has passed since the formation of the new government and we already have that royal decree in this House to validate a 2% increase in the salaries of civil servants with effect from 1 January, a measure that, as you know, will benefit slightly more than 2.5 million public employees. It will benefit the employees and public employees of the State, autonomous, local and also the business public sector; a rise, ladies and gentlemen, which was not possible, as you well know, during the months in which the Government was in office, but which, as we have shown, was a priority for the Government and the Socialist Party, a priority that we already demonstrated on 21 December 2018 with the adoption of a similar decree, to which the spokesman of the PNV has already mentioned, which allowed the salaries of public employees to be raised during 2019 even though there was no budget, and which we also demonstrated in June last year with that additional rise of 0.25 % in relation to the GDP increase estimated at that time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as I say to you, the commitment of the Socialist Party and this Government is clear to improve public employment, to improve the salaries of civil servants and the working conditions of public employees, because it is not only about raising their salaries. That is why the former socialist government has also managed to reduce public sector time by 8%, and I would like to remind you that it approved the largest public offer of employment in the last decade, more than 33 000 jobs offered to try to alleviate the damage that the People's Party has done not only by cutting civil servants' rights, but also by cutting the numbers that served the citizens of our country, because that is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what they did during their years of government. [[applause]] This agreement was taken out by the trade unions, they did not gladly do so; they were taken out after years of having to bear with public officials the maintenance of their work and, therefore, of a quality service to the citizenry despite the staff cuts and that those minimum rates could not be replenished, which in some services were not minimal, but non-existent; they were prohibited by law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Let me remind you, because I do not want to miss the opportunity, despite the fact that some people call it a gender ideology, and, yes, there is also a gender ideology here, which was the former socialist government that enabled the mobility, with full guarantees, of female officials who were victims of gender violence and who were victims of ill-treatment. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against macho violence has to be in all areas, and of course and much more in the field of public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, 'public employees are a priority because they are the basis of the welfare state and contribute with their personal effort to the defence and maintenance of public services'. These are the words of the President of the Government that we all share. That is why the programme agreement we signed with Unidad Podemos has a very important part to do with public employment, because for us, as I say to you, it is a priority. We are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, before an executive and a minister committed to public services and their employees, because they are the true guarantors of these public services and, therefore, of many of our rights and freedoms. Public officials are the guarantors of the right to education of our children and children, the guarantors of the health of our parents and mothers, the guarantors of the care of our elders or the guarantors of our security and our freedoms. That is why my group understands that this rise is fair, we will support the royal decree and ask the rest of the groups to do so. Finally, let me answer a few questions. The spokesman for the People's Party reported in this rostrum a large number of positions and senior positions of the Government. Let me tell this spokesman that they have all completed and are going to complete their declaration of property, which you did not do during the years of government, hiding those declarations of property from the citizenry. [[Applauds]] Look, the worrying thing is not the cost of a government for a democracy, the worrying thing is that you use one of the systems that our democracy has, such as the funds reserved, to pay for the concealment of the People's Party Box B. That is worrisome, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds.-Protests]] But we already know what the People's Party cares about the public, we already know what the public cares about the right. [[A lady MP: But what do you say?-Protests]] Yes, yes, you use the public, public land, everyone's, to give it to private schools. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You use the construction of public housing, yes, you, the one we all pay for, then give it to the vulture funds. [[Protests]] You use, yes, public tenders to nurture your illegal financing... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u91	...and the funds reserved to try to hide it. [[Applauds]] That's how you understand the public, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u92	Mr. Sicilia, you have to finish please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u93	I'm done, Madam President. Let me finish as I began my intervention, reminding public officials and with a small memory also for José Luis Cuerda. In one of his memorable films, José Luis Cuerda said: Mayor, we are all contingents, but you are necessary. [[Laughter]] Gentlemen of the Public Service, we are all contingents here today, but to maintain our public welfare system, you are necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Sicily. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 18/2019, OF 27 DECEMBER, BY WHICH DETERMINED MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF TRIBUTARY, CATASTRAL AND SOCIAL SECURITY ARE ADOPTED. [[File number 130/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u95	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 18/2019 of 27 December, adopting certain measures in the field of taxation, cadastral and social security. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u96	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I appear before this House to request the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2019, approved by the Council of Ministers held on 27 December, which contains, as its title indicates, various measures in the field of taxation, cadastral and social security. You know that we presented this royal decree-law when the government was in office and therefore it was not possible to deal with it by its ordinary parliamentary channel. However, as they will have seen after their reading, these are measures of absolute urgency, of necessity, which aim to guarantee rights and avoid significant harm to a large group of citizens by extending situations that, if not, would have ended by the end of 2019. In other words, if this royal decree-law had not been processed, some of these measures would have ceased to be in force by the end of the year and, instead, others would have been operational automatically, which could have resulted in some collectives, who had also been particularly punished by the crisis - pensioners, self-employed, farmers or self-employed or workers in general - having been adversely affected by their situation. Ladies and gentlemen, having said that, the reality is that this government has already since the first days of its mandate exceeded some of the measures contained and adopted in this rule, whose validation today concerns, for example, the upgrading of pensions or the agreement to raise the SMI through social dialogue. You know the priorities of this Government, priorities that remain clear and transparent: the defence of workers, the guarantee of pensioners and support for self-employed people, and all this from the conviction that it is necessary to work from the institutions for a decent job and a decent wage through the social dialogue between the Government, employers and trade unions, promoting fiscal justice, which can only be the basis of social justice. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin to explain in detail the scope of the decree-law which I submit to you today. As you know, the rule divides the measures into two parts: tax and catastrophic measures and social security measures. First of all, I would like to refer to the cadastral and tax systems. This concerns, in relation to the income tax on natural persons, the extension for the tax period 2020 of the quantitative limits for invoicing per module. I'll explain myself. It is well known that the current legislation has to date reduced the thresholds from which a self-employed person would not be able to tax by the module or objective estimation system by 2020. With this royal decree what we do is to keep unchanged the exclusion limits currently in force, that is, that the tax situation of this collective remains as in 2019 or 2018. It will therefore mean that self-employed workers will be able to continue to rely on the method of objective estimation when - as established by law - all activities do not exceed EUR 250 000 or when invoicing to other professionals or employers does not exceed EUR 125 000. If this royal decree-law were not validated today, the limits would automatically increase to EUR 150 000 instead of EUR 250 000 and to EUR 75 000 instead of EUR 125 000. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a reasonable, logical measure that demonstrates the sensitivity that the Government has with this group of self-employed professionals, especially those with lower incomes, to whom we make it easier to maintain their activities in a simple way. In addition, self-employed persons purchasing goods and services up to EUR 250 000 may also be retained in the module system compared to the previous forecast, which set the limit of EUR 150 000. As regards value added tax, this rule also extends the limits for the application of the simplified regime and the special regime for agriculture, livestock and fisheries for the 2020 tax period. Finally, and not least important, the extension of the capital tax by 2020 is envisaged, the yield of which is fully transferred to the autonomous communities. As you know, this tribute was abolished in 2008, but it was temporarily recovered in 2011 and since then systematically, repeatedly, its validity has been extended annually. With today's action, we renew its validity. The extension in particular is of particular importance to this Government, since it is a priority to improve the progressive nature of the tax system, of our tax model, in line with constitutional requirements. The Government considers that this tax is one of the best ones to reflect the progressive nature of the tax system because it requires a greater contribution to those with greater economic capacity and with the adoption of the rule we comply with the principle of legal certainty which requires taxpayers of that tax to know at the beginning of the year that their tax will be maintained throughout the year, despite the fact that their return does not take effect until 31 December 2020. In addition to fiscal measures, the Royal Decree-Law also has special features of particular importance to citizens. On the one hand, it sets out the list of priority sponsorship activities for this year, and on this point I would like to point out that the percentages and limits of deductions set out in the Non-Profit Tax Act and tax incentives to sponsorship are raised by 5 percentage points. On the other hand, this Royal Decree-Law also includes the approval of the coefficients for updating the catastrophic values of urban real estate by 2020, as set out in Article 32.2 of the consolidated text of the Real Estate Disaster Act. If you are not aware of this, I would like to make it clear that the budgetary extension situation has made it necessary for us to update the coefficients before 31 December 2019, as was the case in the previous three years. In this sense, in the ministry we have already approved the order with the relation of municipalities in which the update coefficients will apply, either upwards or downwards. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that this measure only concerns urban buildings and is adopted in the terms laid down in the Law on Real Estate Disaster, which requires that there be a prior municipal request; otherwise, the update is made on the municipalities that have previously declared to the Ministry of Finance their willingness to update the cadastral values. In total it has been 1092 municipalities that have wanted to benefit from this update, whose implementation will take effect since 1 January with global average increases and decreases that together reach 3%, respectively, distributed in each of the municipalities with different scales that you can consult in the order itself. Ladies and gentlemen, by making a comprehensive reading of this issue, since the adoption of this measure results in better municipal funding and contributes to fiscal consolidation and fiscal stability, local authorities also use this instrument as a tool to be able to fundamentally update certain catastrophic values that have been in place for a decade. Another of the measures we include in the Royal Decree-Law concerns compliance with Directive 2014/40/EU of 3 April 2014 of the European Parliament and of the European Council for the implementation in the Member States of a system allowing the monitoring and tracing of tobacco products in the European Union. What we are pursuing is to facilitate the control of the entire supply chain, from manufacture and import to sale to the consumer, imposing obligations on operators and also on all Member States. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the transposition of the directives relating to all matters of the Ministry of Finance is being done in this Decree-Law. In addition, a directive was proposed this morning to avoid the sanctions that would force our country to pay the European Union large amounts for non-transposition. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the rule also includes measures in the field of social security, which I will then transfer to you. The first of these provides for the suspension of article 58 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, i.e. the article limiting the revaluation of pensions to 0.25 %. If we had not suspended this article, the pensioners would have been confused about the planned increase, because there would have been a duplication of treatment which we believe we should be able to avoid at the time. I have already moved on several occasions that the Government had planned to implement as soon as possible, as soon as it was on full return, with retroactive effects from the beginning of the year, an increase in pensions in our country of 0.9 per cent, which is the average estimate made of inflation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in parallel with the processing of this Decree-Law, which renders the revaluation of 0.25 % ineffective, this government, as it committed to the citizens, has updated pensions by 0.9 % so that pensioners do not lose any level or quality of life, as we had planned. On 14 January the first Council of Ministers, once this commitment has been implemented, continued the processing of the Decree-Law establishing such pension revaluation for the financial year 2020, including the ceiling for the collection of public pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that this pension update measure benefits more than 10 million pensioners and we believe in the government that it was fair to bring this Decree-Law, which will be validated by your ladies and gentlemen today, if they consider it appropriate, to suspend the 0,25 % rate and be able to address 0,9 %, as the government has done in the Royal Decree-Law that I have just mentioned to you. It was also established as a first step in this same rule that if inflation exceeds this expected increase of 0,9 %, pensioners will receive in a single payment before April 2021 the difference between that rise in the CPI that could arise and the 0,9 % that begins to be paid immediately. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have kept our word, we have complied with the agreements that inspired this government of progress and, therefore, we want to continue to move our commitment to older people, to pensioners and, to the extent that this government has the legislative momentum, we will continue to update pensions according to the CPI. Having regard to the part relating to the tax figures and the part relating to the revaluation of pensions, I should like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have also had to extend other measures in the field of social security bases and types of contributions to ensure that they are implemented as from 1 January this year. For example, I am referring to the maintenance of the maximum ceiling and the maximum contribution base in the social security system, the contribution of the special schemes of domestic and agricultural workers on behalf of others or self-employed persons, or the bases and types of contributions of self-employed persons, among others. In addition, this Royal Decree-Law maintains the extension of the period of cancellation of loans granted by the State to the Social Security Administration, as well as the moratorium on various health institutions recognized in previous budgetary rules. Another aspect relating to social security is the need to maintain the pre-Law 27/2011 legislation during this exercise for certain groups that were extinguished by April 1, 2013. It is a question of not harming workers who have been expelled from the labour market at an older age, who have not been able to reintegrate into that working environment and who wish to have access to early retirement even if they have signed a special agreement with Social Security from that date onwards. It was therefore necessary that this article could also take shape in the validation of the decree-law. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech by transferring that the rule also includes the extension of the period of validity of Royal Decree 1462/2018, which set the minimum inter-professional wage for 2019. Since it ceased to have effect on 31 December 2019, there were reasons of extraordinary necessity which made it inexcusable to maintain its validity as from 1 January this year; all this, ladies and gentlemen, to equip us, with a Government already in full capacity, with sufficient time to arbitrate the social dialogue and to try, as has been achieved, to reach an agreement within it that would allow the amount of the interprofessional minimum wage to be fixed for this year. An agreement which, as you will know, was reached in the previous days, which today in the Council of Ministers has also been approved by its formal channel and which ensures that this salary is set at EUR 950 per month, 5.5% more than it was enjoyed in the previous year, and which will benefit more than 2 million people. And I would like to highlight in particular the impact on the women's collective and the youth collective, which are widely involved in pay based on the quota of the interprofessional minimum wage. This increase has therefore been overtaken by the subsequent processing by the Government after its entry into force and in full operation, with the capacity to adopt such measures. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Government, to the extent it can, will continue to drive the path of social dialogue that will enable the generation of jobs and quality wages and progressively recover the positions that were lost during the crisis, all of which will boost consumption and thus boost the economy, something that I assure you will happen. I conclude by reiterating the need to understand that this decree-law was adopted at a time when the Government was in office, i.e. with limitations on the scope of its powers, and that it was also bound by the budgetary extension situation in which we find ourselves. I have moved with my intervention the importance it has for many groups, especially those who are most vulnerable, and I appeal to their responsibility to support their validation. In the coming months, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, we will address the debate and the processing of public accounts for the year 2020 and today, from the rostrum and as Minister of Finance, I give you my hand to discuss and improve the draft General State Budgets that I hope to present in this House as soon as possible. I do so because I believe that, above and beyond the legitimate ideological differences between the Government and the opposition, we are all equally concerned with the tireless pursuit of the well-being of the citizens we represent, and finding that common good in dialogue, agreement and consensus will undoubtedly be the best way to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Minister of Finance. This validation puts an end to a period of very severe legislative drought that began with the arrival of Mr Sánchez's presidency following the motion of censure in late May 2018. The Constitution authorizes the royal decree-law for matters of extraordinary and urgent necessity, but in the last year and a half it has been used and abused of this mechanism, by which measures have been collated that, from the point of view of Forum and looking at all Spain, but especially at Asturias, have been harmful to important sectors of our economy, case of industry or to the mining basins, to which it has dragged to impoverishment and ruin by the collage of the decree promoted by ecological radicalism. Today, the deserter Teresa Ribera, elevated to the rank of vice president, recognizes that it will not be possible to recover the job that is being lost by her irresponsible express decarbonization, which camouflaged via royal decree-law. Expert in disguised as green to make unemployment and unable to get colored by its pathological futility to create employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the third royal decree-law that we see this afternoon is the last of those in the 2019 series, a year that will pass into democratic history because of its legislative insolvency, on the sole account of the inability of the government of Pedro Sánchez to pass bills through ordinary channels. Here measures are mixed in tax, cadastral and social security matters, as the Minister has explained, so that in the revolt everything can be validated, even if it may differ from some of the paragraphs. It is the case of tax measures, which are justified as urgent and indefatigable, and also to provide legal certainty to taxpayers, when what is urgent and indefatigable in Spain is a tax reform that stops suffocating the Spaniards and puts an end to the inequity in tax treatment as a consequence of the place where citizens live. In any case, I trust that throughout this XIV newly begun Legislature we will recover the ordinary processing of new bills and legal reforms, the main mission of Congress and also of the Senate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. I have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u100	Thank you, Madam President. I start with a preview; Mrs. Giménez, the truth is that talking about salaries to the CUP... I do not know if you know that we have a fairly restrictive policy of wages and transparency. In any case, if you want to talk about salaries and work, we could also talk about one of the first steps you took when you arrived at the Andalusian Council, together with the People's Party, which is to raise salaries in your posts from 20% to 90%. If you want to talk about transparency and work, we will be delighted, but I think that getting involved with the salaries of the CUP and the transparency of the CUP is not going to work out very well; there you are. I now turn to the decree-law presented to us by the Government today. The minister said it was an update and an implementation. Well, it's obvious, we're talking about IRPF, Heritage, VAT, but we're doing nothing but updating. We hope that there will be a future law where we can talk about recapture, heritage and, above all, that we can put forward a premise that is fundamental to us, that is that we pay more who has more, but that we pay much more, not only that we pay a little. For us it lacks courage or, what is the same, the situation of inequality is incredible. I will give some data, in the Valencià Country the annual average of a family is 25 000 euros, and 28% of families are on the threshold of poverty, while in the Spanish state we have great fortunes known all over the world. Today we can talk about one of the usual suspects, Mr. Amancio Ortega, or of Inditex, who is his company. This man, according to Forbes, has more than 70 billion dollars of fortune and in 2019 more than 18 billion euros of profit; benefits that, according to the economic press, will surely invest in a real estate company based in Spain, England, the United States and Asia. I would like to remind you that housing is one of the elements that most impoverishes families because it is the most they have to devote to. And since we talk about housing and big fortunes, as families cannot afford their homes, today what the popular movement does is defend them with their body. Today, the Platform d'Afectats for the Mortgage and the Vallès Anticapitalista has arrived a fine per law of 20 000 euros for defending a family so that it does not denunciate it. Let us also hope that political courage will reach the end of the law. But we were talking about inequality and Mr. Amancio Ortega. The Corporate Responsibility Observatory in 2017 published a report on tax havens and Mr.Amancio Ortega attributed a tax evasion of more than €600 million. You see, either the survival of the families in the south of our country or the great fortunes. And it's just that Inditex is not the only IBEX company that uses tax havens. The same study indicates that there are more than 1200 offshore subsidiaries of various IBEX companies. More common suspects: Santander, Repsol, among others. And it's just that we said it in the investiture, the Finance Technician's Union already said at the time, not long ago, that a family pays three times as much taxes as any IBEX company. Therefore, we repeat, either the survival of the families of the popular classes or the accumulation of the companies of IBEX 35. That is why we will do what we have said before, a abstention, which we call a watchful abstention; watch out because, in some way, it expects and will be waiting for what measures are most being taken in terms of redistribution of wealth. Be brave and you will have us with your hand: either the IBEX Stock Exchange or the life of the families of the popular classes, and pay more who has more, but pay much, much, much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u102	Thank you, President. Today the government brings us a real decree of 27 December, as it did in 2018 - and also, note, on the same date - setting out a set of measures resulting from the lack of law of the General Budgets of the State for the current year 2020. So, I hope it can be dealt with as soon as possible, especially to establish those public policies that facilitate the transition to sustainable growth and discuss all these issues there too. With regard to this royal decree on tax and social measures, I would just like to say that our group will in principle vote in favour of it basically for the measures taken on pensions and on the inter-professional minimum wage. As you know, we in fiscal measures usually abstain because in Euskadi we have own estates and therefore competition in tax matters, above all in direct taxation. The decree sets out measures to update the cadastral values that affect real estate and also sets the limits for the application of the method of objective estimation of IRPF and in which our group has little to say, because for us they are concerted taxes of autonomous regulation and therefore exclusive competence. However, with regard to the VAT measure, which sets the limits for the application of the simplified scheme and the special arrangements for agriculture, fisheries and livestock, it is a concerted levy of common rules and, therefore, this same measure and in these same terms is already reflected in the relevant external rules of each historical territory. Specifically, in Vizcaya it was published in the newsletter on 13 January. As for the property tax, I want to say that we are again witnessing an extension of the tax by 2020, a measure that has been approved by all governments since 2012, and that we must not forget that in 2008 this tax was abolished by President Zapatero and then temporarily recovered it since 2012 due to the economic crisis. As regards social security measures for the revaluation of pensions, public benefits and contribution bases, of course we can only agree, since all this comes as a result of the increase in pensions to the CPI, according to the decree-law that is now subject to validation, and we must also not forget that this group, the Basque Nationalist Party, was the one who negotiated the rise of pensions to the CPI in 2018, as well as the improvement of widowhood and the delay of the sustainability factor. With regard to the maintenance of the inter-professional minimum wage, we fully agree, especially when it has been agreed that the minimum wage should be increased between trade unions and employers, although at this point we would like to give a little thought because education and work are two elements that are very present in society and are also closely linked. Thus, equal opportunities for access to education facilitate the effective exercise of the right to work, and in this exercise of work we must bring back the European Social Charter, which states in its Article 4 that all workers are entitled to a sufficient remuneration to provide them and their families with a decent standard of living, and states that the minimum wage must reach at least 60% of the minimum wage of each State; a task which is certainly not easy, because it is normally a figure which is fixed and does not usually take into account the reality of the autonomous communities, where both the cost of living and labour costs can be very different from one another. Therefore, although the interprofessional minimum wage figure could be close to 60% in some autonomous communities, in others it could be very far away. On the other hand, and noting also the positive data of economic growth, it would be important for this growth to reach people through a recovery of wages, because it is true that the adjustment of wages during the crisis was mainly in the lower wages. For all that, this group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u104	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vehí, of the CUP, is not Valencià Country; it is Valencian Community, as is the status of autonomy of my region. We open the legislature by doing what Mr Sánchez's government likes most, which is to seek the validation of his royal decrees-laws. Who needs the Legislative Power when we have decree-laws? In November 2015, the former leader of the opposition said: The PP has become a figure foreseen for exceptional circumstances in the ordinary way to legislate. I intend to give Parliament the centrality it deserves and to limit the use of the decree-law. Well, not one thing or the other. Sánchez has had nearly fifty royal decrees since he became president; moreover, 80% of the laws of this government have been decrees. I wanted to send a message to Mr Sánchez, but since he is not leaving it to the Minister to pass it on to him, Mr Sánchez not only beats records of change of opinion, but also beats records of legislating Parliament's back with this tool. You use the urgency of the decree in the face of the incompetence of your Government, which has cost you a year to be in full operation, with the legislative activity paralyzed and waiting for budgets that we do not know when you are going to present in this House; the minister said a moment ago that as soon as possible, but surely it is when Mr Rufián says so. It is curious, however, that his Government is not encouraged to pass a real decree to pay the Autonomous Communities what is owed to them for the last month of the 2017 VAT collection. [[The Lord]] That's why you don't find any real decrees or legal shortcuts. Anyone would say that they blackmail the autonomous communities for support. And this is not only said by María Muñoz and our parliamentary group, but also by Mr García-Page, his president in Castilla-La Mancha, who has just denounced them in court today. What are you going to say to Mr García-Page, who is ultra, ultra, ultra, ultra-right, as his vice president told the entire opposition the other day? Today we have here a real decree with I do not know how many fiscal measures, ranging from the IRPF's objective estimation regime to the extension of the property tax, to the updating of the cadastral values. I have already announced to you, Minister - if you pay attention to me - that our group will not oppose the validation of this royal decree for a matter of responsibility, because if these measures are not extended, our legal certainty would be in jeopardy. But, together with our abstention, we will call for the treatment of tax and catastrophic measures as a bill because we do not share this way of legislativeizing that abuses this mechanism and deprives it of parliamentary debate. In this revolt of measures - as the United States called it the other day We can, today, partner of Government - we have the faithful reflection of what awaits us with its coalition government: massive tax increases through the back door and a government willing to use the roller of the decree to steal from the opposition the right to debate it. Unfortunately I have a limited time to comment on all the measures that come in this decree collected. So I'm just going to focus on tax and cadastral measures. On the extension of the exclusionary limits to apply the objective estimation regime in the IRPF, I would like to comment that the module system is a huge pit of tax fraud and laundering; that all governments, both PP and PSOE governments, always show their intention to change it but have never done anything significant about it; and that the extension they bring here today is that of the fifth consecutive year, I insist, fifth consecutive year. In Citizens we believe that the objective estimation regime in the IRPF needs a redefinition and a complete revision, but that we must be both careful because many self-employed use it correctly and we cannot eliminate it from the system from today until tomorrow, creating legal insecurity as we said before, by frying them to taxes. We have to help them, and that is why we are asking for their action as a bill, to study their limitation or repeal, depending on the impact these measures have on the survival of our autonomous people. On the maintenance of the property tax in 2020, I remind you that it was eliminated by President Zapatero in 2008 because, according to him, it was a tax that no longer had reason to be. Still, he himself recovered it in 2011, with short temporary effects - only 2011 -, according to him, to alleviate the effects of the economic crisis. Well, after the economic crisis, this temporality of the property tax has long since become something chronic that points to ways of becoming definitive. The Government also bases the continuity of this tax on the same reasons that led to its reinstatement in the tax system in 2011, being the most striking thing that you have not bothered to change the text of that motivation and that it says in text that the recovery of the tax aims to ensure the stability of our economy and promote the recovery in order to contribute to the exit of the economic crisis. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are you telling us and acknowledging that we are facing a serious and worrying crisis, similar to that of 2012? In Citizens we believe that this tax should have a fundamentally censored and non-collective function that avoids the inequalities that occur among the Spanish because of the simple fact of where they live, inequalities that you so much criticize in Andalusia or Madrid but that curiously quiet when your government partner, the PNV, insinuates that he wants to remove this tax on property where he governs. You could hide at least a little bit. Finally, on the update coefficients of the cadastral values, it would be interesting for this Government to explain whether this measure has been carried out by another catastrophe that they intend to incorporate in the 2020 budgets, as was already attempted in its failed draft budgets for 2019 which provided for updating the cadastral value of more than six million buildings. For those who have not fallen into the account, the rise in the cadastral value implies the immediate rise in the tax on real estate, so we already have another hidden rise in this tax, which joins with the other taxes, of this so-called government of the people who will pay society as a whole - young, unemployed and pensioners - and not just the richest. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Government - and I finish, Madam President - we will abstain and ask for your action as a bill because we are looking forward to serious discussions with you about the model of fiscal moderation that Citizens want throughout Spain and that we already apply where we govern. What we are not prepared to do is for this government to steal the debate from us and paralyse you in the decrees to cover up what we fear will be an unceasing drop in tax increases. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u105	Thank you very much. It's okay because I'm called president. She is called president and therefore there is no problem. [[Applauds]] I now give the floor to Mr Rego Candamil for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u106	We recognize that this decree contains measures that are necessary and, therefore, we will not oppose it, but we will not vote in favour either because it also includes others that we do not share or on which we have reservations. In the short time that I have, I will mention only three. For example, by maintaining as a priority the activities of sponsorship, listed in the seventy-first additional provision of the 2018 Law on General Budgets, one continues to be committed to promoting uniformity within the Spanish State, the unique culture - for example, Cervantes Institute, Spanish Heritage, National Library of Spain, National Museum of Prado, etc. -, denying in practice the existence of languages, such as Galicia, and different cultures that also correspond to the existence of different nations. Sooner or later, the time will come to recognize reality. In addition, the decree includes the maintenance of the increase in the contributions of workers in the seafood sector. The Royal Decree 28/2018 has made some improvements, but also an increase in quotas that can hardly be assumed by people in a sector characterized by low and irregular incomes. It was here that action should be taken to ensure that the specific conditions of a sector which is of great importance in Galicia were correctly defined in order to adjust contributions and improve benefits. Finally, with regard to the extension of the minimum wage, it is logical, although we feel that the increase which the Government has just approved today of EUR 50 is insufficient, and which leaves us still far from that 60% of the average wage. The BNG will not easily conform to the fact that electoral commitments are always far from effective policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u107	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too am going to start by saying that using real decree-laws in legislative terms for very important issues is not the best, but we are starting from a situation of political blockade that has been going on for a long time and we are convinced that from now on for such important and relevant issues the provisionality will be abandoned to go to the substantive debates that are pointed out in these decrees, and that I am already warning that we will support it. The first thing that comes to our mind, rather than a journey to the past that has been carried out by parts of the PP and in part also of VOX, is the opportunity for the future. We think it is important both the different extensions that include the decree and the cadastral update coefficients, and we are going to support it, as I said, but it seems to me that there are three key elements that define this debate. First of all, from More Country-Equo we define ourselves by seeing the reforms of the property tax towards a real tax of the great fortunes. That's a first element. The representative of Citizens who has just spoken comes and tells us, but it is that in communities like Madrid they stop entering exactly one billion a year that correspond to the people with the greatest purchasing capacity. That's the situation. The rest are, I think, stories. The second element that we think is fundamental is the impulse to the self-employed and a national plan to boost self-employment, and the last one - let me just say a second - is that it seems to us to be an update of the cadastre, but the municipalities need an orderly financing system, which they do not have. We are under Montoro law, which clearly took away a principle of local autonomy that is also contained in the Constitution. So the most important thing for constitutionalists is not just to talk about the revision of cadastral value, but about local funding, which is a clear and constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u109	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u110	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and count on our vote in favour of this royal decree-law. So I do the math: three in favor of three. I am not going to go into the detail of the specific content, which would normally be discussed under the budget law. But I will give you a thought, Minister and gentlemen of the two groups holding the Government. Minister, do you know how many royal decree-laws passed in the previous legislature while you held the Presidency of the Government? I remind you, thirty-five. And while they were in office there were seven. Therefore, there are forty-two. Do you know how many bills submitted by your Government were passed in this House in the previous legislature? I remind you: one; forty-two to one. When Mr Sánchez came up to this rostrum to present the motion of censure, he spoke of dialogue, of much dialogue, of dialogue to solve the conflicts he called territorial, and he spoke of dialogue with the groups. The reality is that with our group, dialogue, zero. It was a political choice. Zero, minister. And I'm not going to talk to you about the budgets, I could talk to you about all the other royal decree-laws. I don't want to look at the past, I want to look at the future, but taking into account the background. If you in this legislature - I am not speaking for these three, which at the moment are three to zero, forty-two to one, because I can understand that in these three the urgency would be justified; I speak for what has to come - you plan to legislate at the stroke of royal decree-law, that has a reading. Of course, they have the complicity of all those parliamentary groups that have made it easier for you to invest. If they do, they may think that they have resolved the legislature and here the others are not going to say anything, but they will have to explain to the other parliamentary groups that will allow them to use this technique. If they do not have that complicity and their desire for dialogue - which Mr Sánchez reiterated again in the investiture debate about a month ago - it is true, they do not intend to legislate through real decree-laws, and they do not intend to do so without the complicity of parliamentary groups. In the end you will say that the other groups are irresponsible. But no, we are now responsible: three to zero; we have voted three in favour, without any kind of dialogue. If you really want dialogue, you will have to sit down and you will have to offer it, but if you intend to follow the technique you used in the previous legislature, you will know that you will have the complicity of the two parliamentary groups that are in the government - some criticized it in the previous legislature and I do not think you will qualify it in this legislature - and you will have the complicity of those who allowed you to invest, but you will not find us Junts per Catalunya. If you want dialogue and genuine agreement, you will have our group; now, agreements and dialogues are not accession contracts, take this into account, a positive reflection at the beginning of the parliamentary term. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u111	Thank you so much. Next, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mr Mena Arca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u112	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Today we are at the first plenary session of a legislature that has much to contribute to Spain and we do so in the best possible way: shielding decisions of the progressive majority that ended the lost decade of corruption, cuts and the judicialization of the politics of the governments of the People's Party. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Today, gentlemen of the People's Party, you are history, a nightmare, I would say, and the coalition government has the challenge of ending its legacy. This decree, among other things, allows us to raise pensions according to the CPI, fulfilling one of the main commitments that as União Podemos-En Comú Podemos and Galicia in Common we contracted in the last legislature: the struggle of the pensioners. Pensioners' tides have been an example of dignity for this country, a breath of fresh air from a generation who fought to regain democracy against an illegitimate and illegal regime, and who now continue to sow a future to give their grandchildren decent pensions. Therefore, it is a victory that is not ours, but one of the pensioners who won it at once on the streets and those who, despite all their reluctance, today no one dares contradict. [[The lady]] Well, no one but the gentlemen of VOX, who when all of Spain was flooded by the tides of pensioners, they were proposing to dismantle the public pension system because, of course, unlike the rest of the Spaniards, those who are sitting on the bench of the far right seem to be able to afford a private pension plan. And it is that to you the public repels, they talk a lot about the unity of Spain, but very little about that which cohesives this country, which are public rights and services. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The cynicism of this far right has no limits: they oppose raising the inter-professional minimum wage and also oppose increasing pensions. What are we left with? If your only proposal for our pension system is the law of the jungle, at least let us cover something with dignity so we can save for the future. Honestly, I'm not surprised because when it's Iranian terrorism that pays the salary, little can matter to one Spain. [[Applauds]] So I recommend you stop talking about the pin and talk a little bit more about the bread, which is what interests all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] That's the way you govern. [[Rumors]] This is the way that the ultra-right has to govern, because its defense of Spain is today more fake than the architecture projects of the Monastery. [[rumors]] The way to govern the right, the right and the right of this coalition government cannot stand comparisons, either by ideological sectarianism or by bad faith. What have you done in Andalusia? Change the board logo or let the children go to study bulls and hunting in schools. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u114	What have you done in Murcia? Parental censorship, so that then they say that the indoctrination is the model of Catalan school. What have you done in Madrid, for example? Declaring a competition between autonomous communities while saying that it is others who break Spain and, in addition, eliminate Central Madrid so that then Europe has to come to throw their ears out and have them rectified. [[Applauds]] While you do that, this government in less than a month has already declared the climate emergency, raised the minimum wage to 950 euros and updated the pensions according to the CPI. [[Applauds]] There are therefore two clear ways of understanding Spain: Spain's rights as proposed by this Government and Spain, which under an empty patriotic rhetoric tries to impose its sectarianism and also its doctrine. So this decree of tax, cadastral and social security measures has an immediate effect on citizenship, especially on those groups with whom politics has a debt after this decade lost of cuts and austerity: pensioners, self-employed, farmers and workers in general. And we do it despite the anomaly of continuing under the slab of Montoro's budgets, an anomaly that must be corrected by real decrees like this, but that will need a solid progressive and plurinational block to pass page of the popular party's inheritance. That is not just any inheritance, it is the inheritance of corruption - a few days ago we knew that Anticorruption asked for eight years in prison for Ignacio González - or the inheritance of the cloacas that last Tuesday directly pointed to Mariano Rajoy as the main responsible for fabricating false evidence against political opponents. [[protests]] We have also known - if anything was missing - that you, the constitutionalist patriots, used 500 000 euros of reserved funds to spy on those who were spying on you. They say whoever steals a thief has a hundred years of forgiveness, but the truth is that you're not going to be forgiven for all the evil you've done to our welfare state. You're proving it these days. I'm done. In your party - and I tell you with total sincerity - there are very sensible people who have ruled - we leave aside, for example, Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, who has enough troubles within the People's Party itself - and even you understand that without that dialogue - territorial dialogue, but also social dialogue with all the actors involved in the social progress of our country - there is no solution for this country, because dialogue is not only a desire of those who have always been at the side of solutions, dialogue is the guarantee that there will be social and political progress in Spain, the guarantee that we do not have to re-adopt real decrees that give security to citizens, because we will already have budgets and laws that do so. I am convinced, and with this I conclude, President, that in this parliamentary term, which begins all the forces that we are on the side of progress and plurinationality, we will make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mena. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u116	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President. Before I start talking about the issue that brings us here today, I want to ask Mr. Spokesman of Podemos to please not lie again in this room. I really ask you, please, because while the VOX accounts are public, they are audited and we are open to comment on them, and so we have done on countless occasions, yours however are absolutely opaque. And on this I will ask you directly: what happens to the financing of Bolivia, Venezuela, even Iran? [[Applauds]] I remind you that in Iran your friends of the Iranian dictatorial regime hang homosexuals for the mere fact of being gay. Give you explanations of that; speak with a loud voice, as we do of our accounts. This, on the one hand. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, let us deal with the issue that brings us here today. Today we come to talk about the Royal Decree-Law 18/2019, a real decree-law apparently innocuous, very technical, but what hides behind it is that it is basically one of the gears that accompany the entire extension of the General Budgets of the State. However, this royal decree-law brings with it or demonstrates the way this Government and, by the way, also of all the previous ones: that way of kicking forward constantly, of postponing the moment to face reality. And to show a button. If we read this Royal Decree-Law 18/2019 we will see that it extends in ten years the date to return a loan granted to Social Security, which had to be returned originally in 2010, i.e., at best this loan would be returned twenty years after the original date. Minister, you say that this royal decree-law demonstrates the sensitivity of the government to the workers of Spain. The reality is that this royal decree-law demonstrates the improvisation with which this government is directed. If you had been genuinely sensitive to the needs of the Spaniards, you would have brought to this House the rules that you are now extending with your eyes closed. And this I'm going to say now is relevant. You are dedicated to convincing your fellow members of government: communists, separatists and terrorists. By the way, you speak of grandchildren and rights, and precisely these communists speak only of spending and spending. Well, if you continue along the path you claim, your grandchildren will have nothing but ashes, you will have no pension, neither worthy nor unworthy, because the system will not be sustained as you continue with the measures you want to implement. Let's keep going. Madam Minister, your Government and all the previous ones in Spain - and it seems that successive ones too - have increased public spending, which is the basis of the General Budgets of the State. They have increased it from about 30 billion euros - the figure is said to be soon - in 1980, which brought at present time, with inflation, would be about 150 billion euros. Well, in 2019, public spending has risen to EUR 500 billion. Out of the 150 000 that would correspond have gone to 500 000. The expenditure is triggered and together with this the deficit, a public deficit that makes the Spanish economic system and the Spanish Treasury totally unsustainable. How do you continue along this path? However, these extremely high budgets are not so negative or at least not negative for everyone. In them you can easily distract a few hundred million euros. For example, those nearly 700 million euros from the EREs of Andalusia, the Socialist Party, by the way, which the press said were spent on prostitution and cocaine. [[Applauds]] It's funny to me that Mr. de Podemos has the ability to see one corruption, but not the other. What's going on with those 700 million euros? Don't you ask about them? Or for those 30 million euros of UGT and Workers' Commissions in Extremadura? Or that poor million-and-a-peak UGT in Asturias? Or by Fernández Villa, who had EUR 1 400 000 in cash kept in his house, that unionist and socialist Asturian enclave? Don't you ask for them, gentlemen of Podemos? We see that these budgets and this huge spending is a magical and socialist box to dilute, dissolve and make taxpayers' money disappear. Gentlemen, stop putting clubs on the wheel for the worker, the entrepreneur and the Spanish entrepreneur. Do not put sticks on the wheel because those sticks that put on are not only economic, but also bureaucratic and prevent all Spanish workers from developing efficiently in the market. And if I do not ask those who listen to us from their homes to read even diagonally this Royal Decree 18/2019 to see the complexity to which the Spanish field workers, the self-employed, etc. are subjected. [[Applauds]] And here I make one more observation. Mr de Podemos, I do not see you asking about that 21% with which energy is taxed in Spain. That 21% is a natural response to the voraciousness of the state, to the collective need they have, and so they do not lower it. The energy emergency could be alleviated simply by a modification of this type of tax. In short, a fairly simple solution - VOX is one of the few groups that brings it, not to say the only one - would be to draw up budgets on a zero basis, start from scratch, count on account, analyzing what are the needs of the Spaniards. This would involve a great deal of work and a great deal of effort, and for some of the disputed it would be something new, of course. [[Applauds]] Thus we could ask ourselves whether, for example, those nearly EUR 9 million that are given to trade unions are necessary, trade unions which, by the way, are dedicated to stealing and insulting, among others, Spanish farmers who manifest themselves in front of the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Applauds]] The question is that the only party that proposes common sense measures is VOX, because it is not common sense for those who waste the money of all Spaniards not to answer for it, and neither is it that when the Spanish State already owes more than one hundred per cent or about one hundred per cent of one year's GDP, it remains in that cycle of expenditure and deficit. Gentlemen, get out of your bubble and see what the real needs of the Spaniards are, because politics must not be a mere catwalk to get to the Falcon or to move from 15-M to stepping on Congress's soft carpet. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, political work must make life easier for the Spaniards, for all the Spaniards, and that is achieved by hindering them as little as possible. That is why the VOX Parliamentary Group cannot, much less, approve the validation of this royal decree-law, and that is why we will abstain. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u117	Thank you, Mr. Figaredo. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u118	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we haven't seen each other in two months. The first thing I have to say is congratulations on having repeated in this government that we see new faces. Congratulations to all the ministers. Congratulations on being a spokesperson. Mr Sicilia has given me the memory, because the truth is that the Socialist Party has a very complicated and very difficult system of rewards to understand. They have been his two most characteristic horribilis months, because it is true that during these months there have been no vulture funds, what has been vulture in public funds and precisely in the Junta de Andalucia. Therefore, in view of what has happened and the intervention of the Andalusian Board, where it has been necessary to make an adjustment plan derived from the adjustment made by the General Intervention - which is up to you, Minister - it is still surprising that you are here right now as the spokesman of this Government. [[Applauds]] In any case, Mrs Montero, I appreciate you despite what I have said to you. I appreciate him and I like him to be a spokesman for this government; I really like him. We will live extraordinary moments and hope to share them with you in a pure sense, in the sense of political dialectic. I'm already telling you that we're going to vote against this decreeley and I'm going to tell you why. First, we consider that this decreeley, like any decreeley, should obey a reason of extraordinary and urgent need. Unfortunately there is no reason for extraordinary and urgent need here, what there is is a reason for extraordinary and urgent incapacity; inability to have passed a law on general state budgets. Do you know, Minister, that this week has been thirty months since the last Council of Ministers approved budgetary stability objectives, which were endorsed by Congress and the Senate? Do you know that you have been unable to do so? It is true that there have been moments that are not directly attributable to their governance. It is true that there have been moments of public inaction and paralysis not directly attributable to you, but it is now time for us to break this kind of psalm and we can move forward, which is the important thing. We are going to vote that not because the text contains the consolidation - one more year - of the property tax. You know, minister, that within the People's Party's election program was the abolition of the property tax, a tax that we consider anachronistic. The Institute of Tax Studies, which is dependent on you, has recent studies that say that it is an extraordinarily unfair tax from the point of view of vertical and horizontal inequality, that of course does not fulfil the census function that it had been said to fulfil, and that it obviously also has little collection capacity. If it does not fulfil any of the primitive functions for which this tax was created, it will be extinguished. But we're going to do it in a smart way. We are not going to extinguish it through the total repeal of the tax, but what we want to do is to increase the tax quota to 100 percent - I have it registered in a PL, which obviously will not support us, but I have to expose it -. You know why? Because in this way the taxable act is taxed and so the autonomous communities that want to be tempted to apply the tax will not be able to do so within their territory. You who talk so much about fiscal dumping let the autonomous communities work freely. Now, speaking of autonomous communities, I will tell you one thing. Congratulations on convening the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council today. Thank you, but I would ask you one thing on behalf of the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party: expand the agenda and include the issue of VAT. The EUR 25 billion owed to all Autonomous Communities is not included. [[Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado: Montoro]] By the way, it has been sued by the President of the Castile-La Mancha Board because these funds have not been transferred. [[Applauds]] As far as the text is concerned, I would like to have some doubts, precisely because their partners are here as well. When's the big fortune tax? Is it a tax that's going to have a state root? Is it a state establishment tax that is going to be transferred to the autonomous communities? Is it a tax that will nourish the public resources of the State Treasury? Can you explain to me for when that big fortune tax? How are you going to live with a tax like the property tax, which has the same taxable object? How will you fulfill your promise with your partners knowing that you can't tax twice on the same taxable object? How are you going to do that? He'll tell me that maybe he can't clear the incognita today, but we'd like to know. The property tax practically does not exist in any country in Europe. Only in France - scarcely, because right now they only tax real estate through assets - in Liechtenstein, Switzerland and Norway. In the rest of the countries it does not exist, even in Germany it was declared unconstitutional. Well, look at a big fortune tax, look at the European scene and see where you can find a tax of those characteristics. But I will go on, because this is a real decree-law that confronts us with the contradictions of your Government, your coalition government, the programs that are combined and the ideas, because it is true that a coalition pact is made but in the end all contradictions arise. The first of these: you extend the module regime so that there is no direct estimate. Where is the promise of the United Nations? Can we say that the modular regime has to disappear so that everyone can go to direct estimate? Where's that formula? Are you going to discuss it at your assemblies? Now that it's already governed, doesn't it matter if there's an objective estimate? Or was it all a subjective estimate converted into an objective estimate, such as the subjective estimate of public assets in the Junta de Andalucia? Is that what we're on about? Have we changed yet? The other day we saw convert Republicans applauding; now we find ourselves as the conversion has also occurred in the tax system. It is what has to play carpet, that in the end one becomes liberal quickly, but well, these are things that happen. [[Applauds]] But there is more, it also extends something that was already in the Budget Act of 2016, approved by Minister Montoro. This, truly, minister, from Montoro to Montero and from Montero to Montoro, because we are constantly going from one to the other. This is like the goose, what we don't know is what track we're moving on. The simplified scheme and the special scheme for farmers, winners and fishermen are also extended. That's very good. But do you know what goes on too, Minister? The sponsorship regime. Today I have heard the expression, Mr. Vice-President, once again. Do you remember what he said on TV? Amancio Ortega is a young man who makes donations. Today they will adopt an article that includes tax benefit measures for donors, for example in matters related to neurodegenerative activities. They have converted to liberalism too. It's just that not only will Amancio Ortega be able to give you money, but you're going to pay you money, you're going to give you tax benefits for those contributions. What are we left with then, aren't you gentlemen? We left Gramsci for Gracita Morales, that's what happened; Gramsci really no longer exists, it was a second-level reading, because at the end of the day in universities that was not explained, Mr. Iglesias, was explained to Gracita Morales, which is the level that could be reached. [[applause]] And I'm done. Obviously, as I said, we will vote no. We shall vote no, and I say that today we have tabled and registered a proposal for a law abolishing the property tax. We want a modern, fair, fair tax system that does not penalise merit. Do not continue to stigmatize merit, ability, effort and sacrifice. They break down modern societies that criticize for an absolutely anti-liberal principle. But I do aspire to one thing, and I say it to you very clearly: I frankly believe that in addition to the conversion we saw the other day through manual automatism of giving applause to his majesty the king, let us see another kind of conversion, which is tax conversion. Thank you, welcome to liberalism. Thank you so much. [[Let's give it up.-A honourable Member: Good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u119	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. It is also my first speech at this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, and I am proud to defend the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Today we bring the last of the three decrees, a very technical decree with fiscal, tax and cadastral measures that the Minister of Finance has very well explained to his lords. Before delving into some of the considerations that the minister has also made, I would like to respond to some reflections that we have had to hear in this House, especially from the right-wing groups represented here. Citizens, I do not know what you mean by something exceptional, but if we have a government in office it is not something exceptional, I do not know how you will explain the current situation to us. By the way, something that you, with your permanent blockade, committed yourself to not having a government in this country, and the citizens returned it to you in the ballot box by leaving you today in political irrelevance, gentlemen of Citizens. [[Applauds]] Also by the way if they were so concerned about the module system, I don't know why they didn't include it in the budget pact they reached with the People's Party to approve the 2018 State General Budgets. [[Applauds]] And, gentlemen of VOX, that you come to this House today to talk about the financing of political parties, when we learned that your political leaders and your electoral campaigns were financed by Iranian exile, is at least delusional, gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]] And, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you speak here today of Andalusia, when you were the first and only government of democracy censored by this House for the illegal financing of your party, it is also blushing, and much more so the next day to know that you used reserved funds to spy on Barcens, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] More, much more, gentlemen of the People's Party. And you also come to the point of amending yourself to demand that the Government of the nation pay that monthly VAT, when it was you, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, who did not pay the Autonomous Communities and who, in addition, passed regulations so that it could not be done. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Of course, gentlemen of the People's Party... Now I am going to dwell very briefly on what is important, which are those measures that the Spanish Government has adopted by decree to benefit many workers and many women workers, many people who need politics with that urgent decree. It is a decree that has taken necessary measures, as the Minister explained, to help sectors that need our help, such as farmers, farmers or fishing, with these special VAT measures. It is also a decree that if not implemented today, all these sectors would have to be subject to higher tax burdens. It is a decree, gentlemen of this House, that, among other measures, it has the update of the cadastral values so that they could enter into force before the beginning of the degeneration of IBI, and the people who come from municipal politics know today especially what the main tax for the municipalities of this country represents. It is a decree which also provides for the temporary maintenance of the property tax, which has been extended since 2011, a measure of important economic significance for the autonomous communities, and which has a planned collection of around EUR 12 billion for this year. And I ask the political groups that are going to abstain today or even vote against: what are you going to say to the autonomous communities when you cannot finance public education, public health, dependence or policies that you develop with that money, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] A measure in a day like today also especially important of this decree is that relating to the freezing of pensions, as they had been updated in 2019, until the revaluation by a new decree of the Government of Spain already with all its functions, with a double objective, ladies and gentlemen: to give security to the pensioners and not to generate confusion, first with that revaluation that you wanted of 0.25 and then with another revaluation when we already had the Government until the 0.9. A commitment - yes, I know you do not like it - of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, to give dignity to more than eleven million Spaniards, who are the beneficiaries of this measure. It is a measure of justice to end the dictatorship of the pension update of 0.25. And what did we have to hear those days, ladies and gentlemen? We had to listen to a political party that had condemned the pensioners of this country for seven years to the dictatorship of 0.25, who were going to appeal it to the Constitutional Court - do they remember?-, and only did it because a government in office, responsibly, ladies and gentlemen - do not get nervous -, postponed the rise of pensions to, then,... [[rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u122	...as we have seen in this House, update them according to the CPI. So thank you to the Council of Ministers. [[Laughter]] What was better, ladies...?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u124	What was better, ladies and gentlemen, to suspend the application of the minimum increase of 0.25 set by the Rajoy Government or to wait for the revaluation of 0.9 % in order to avoid doubling costs and procedures? That is the reality as much as you try to interpret it and manipulate it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this decree also reflects the freezing of the minimum wage until we wait, as we saw this morning in the Council of Ministers, for the updating of the minimum wage with an increase of 5.5%, in addition to the biggest increase in the history of Spanish democracy with that 22%, which was also an achievement of this government, of a progressive government. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the responsibility of all 350 Members of this House to validate this royal decree-law, a measure of justice that will undoubtedly benefit the working class of this country, those who earn low incomes, women, young people, the self-employed, farmers, farmers and fishermen. So please let him see, take a little responsibility, just a little, and vote in favour, not for the government, but for thousands and thousands of Spaniards who need politics. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u125	Thank you, Mr. Casares.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u126	We now turn to the last item on the agenda concerning the direct and single reading of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, amending Rule 46.1. I would remind you that, in accordance with the second final provision of the Rules of Procedure, their approval will require the approval of the absolute majority of the House. An amendment has been tabled to this proposal for reform. For the defence of this amendment, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simono has the floor by the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wanted to welcome all Members who have joined the House in this XIV Legislature, and especially all those whose ideas we do not share, but who are determined to make the constitutional order and sovereignty of the nation prevail. In the same way, and as we are at the first plenary session since the official opening of the legislature, I wish the new Government much luck, sincerely. It's a wish, not a prognosis, but I want it with all my heart. [[laughs]] And I say the prognosis is not the same because I see it difficult. If what we have heard here this afternoon from the representatives of the Socialist Party and Podemos, it is significant of the policies and ideas that will prevail in this Legislature by not leasing its profits. Mr Casares, from the PSOE, who you find out about the newspaper of very singular things and very late; those old and false news about the financing of this party, from VOX, have appeared in 2015, in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019; but there is a circumstance that VOX is a party that audits its accounts with an external independent auditor in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, and we will also do so in 2020. An independent external auditor is a concept that you do not handle very much. [[Laughter]] They have not met auditors, they do not know almost anyone external, and of course they have not met anyone independent in their life, but I invite you to one day meet one. [[Applauds]] I know several; I've been an independent external auditor and I know how it works. Mr. Mena, you start the legislature with false news. You talk about others not doing it and you start with false news. Look, in relation to Mrs Monastery, I can tell you, simply for you to make an idea, that throughout your entire career of architecture the subjects of projects have taken them out with outstanding and honorary registration. [[Several Members: Oh!]] He is, without a doubt, one of the best architects of his generation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u128	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I have to ask you, please, to stick to the subject before us, which is the defence of the amendment to the amendment to the regulation. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u129	We girded ourselves, Madam President, but not without wishing Rocío Monastery a happy birthday, which today precisely fulfills them. [[Risa.-A honourable Member pronounces words that are not perceived]] As I said, it is not a prognosis that this government will be doing very well not only because of what we have heard in this House, but also because with the crazy number of ministerial portfolios with which you are tearing things up, things are not going to start well. There is no doubt that it is logical to adapt the number of commissions, or rather to adapt the Regulation on the basis of the ministries that the Government has created in order to be able to control the action of the Executive, which is, as you know - although some forget it - one of the main functions of the Legislative Power. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is also logical that the Government should set up its ministerial portfolios in accordance with the needs of the Spaniards and not with the needs of the Government itself - in this case, socialcommunist - which, by the way, is not the Government that the Spaniards chose, since the President refused in campaign both Podemos and the separatists who support him today. But, finally, the number of ministries is crazy. Its derived expenditure is unique and exclusively in the interest of one person, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, and that of his party, the PSOE. In short, everything is summed up in the only patriotism that you feel, the love of your leader, who has never had problems of self-esteem in his own right. [[Laughter]] That is why it did not take you, gentlemen of the PSOE and of Podemos, forty-eight hours to reach a government agreement. After asking so many votes from more formations wanted to cover up their failure, the problem is that they have done so at the expense of the pocket of the Spaniards, who are the ones who pay for all their ministries. - By the way, less bad that they fit, because if there was one more I think they wouldn't fit in this Chamber. Here we have, for example, the case of the former Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, today divided into two, one of Science and Innovation and another of Universities, where by the way we have a professor of prestige who preaches the lies of separatism and literally states: The national aspirations of Catalonia were severely suppressed in 1640, 1714, 1934 and 1939. This is our minister today. Our group cannot prevent you from sharing 22 ministerial portfolios - many of them unnecessary and obviously redundant - and in the same way you cannot justify it without appealing to your own ego, but we can try to avoid through this amendment that we have tabled that at least the Spaniards do not have to cover 21 standing legislative committees, or what is the same, 21 committees with their 21 presidents, 21 first vice-presidents, 21 second vice-presidents, 21 first secretaries and 21 second secretaries. But since you intend to create 17 other subcommittees or spokespersons within them, we will have 21 plus 17, that is, 38 spokespersons and 38 deputy spokespersons for each parliamentary group. For example, within the Committee on the Environment, today pompously called the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, there have been 4 subcommissions or spokespersons: Environment, Climate Change, Energy and the Demographic Challenge, with 4 spokespersons and 4 deputy spokespersons, for 10 groups, up to 80 environmental spokespersons could be. That's leaving a carbon footprint, socialist gentlemen and mayonnaise gentlemen. [[Applauds]] As soon as Greta finds out, they're gonna hurt him. How dare you! [[Laughter]] I know why they dare. They dare this nonsense of an elephantic structure, because if we take those 38 spokespersons and 38 deputy spokespersons give us 76 deputies placed with their complements by the permanent legislative committees. - Keep the number, 76-. But if we add to that the approximately 22 commissions that are missing to be created and that will come soon - among non-legislative permanents, the mixed ones with the Senate, the ones from abroad -, 22, with its 22 spokespersons and 22 deputy spokespersons, gives us 44 more, 44. Do you remember the 76? So 76 plus 44 gives us 120, 120 charges with their complements for any match. [[Applauds]] And how many deputies does the PSOE have? [[Mrs. Esteban Calonje: 120]] Right. [[Applauds.-Protests]] And that is the only explanation for this hyperinflation of so many additionally remunerated posts that you want to approve in this House. One for each PSOE deputy: 120. [[Applauds]] That is to say, we already know why the PSOE has led this initiative, and what we hope is that the other groups, by common sense, will accept our amendment to reduce, albeit modestly, this number which, of course, is borne by all the Spaniards. If they didn't, it would be symptomatic that some might also want to co-wrote their parties in charge of the public treasury. Look, in the last legislatures - which we have taken as a reference - the deputies and their groups did the same work but with fewer commissions: 13 commissions with Felipe González, in 1993; 14 with Aznar, in both legislatures; 16 and 19 with Zapatero - inflation was already arriving; 17 and 19 with Rajoy, and now 21 with Pedro Sánchez. If they could say that Spain has not stopped growing in these years and that it has had population growth or sustained economic growth, it would still be justifiable, but it turns out that the more commissions are created in this house the worse control is exercised, the less the Spanish population grows and the less the Spanish population grows. And how do you explain this waste to a Spanish man on foot? Ask the Spaniards if, when they enter their home less money, they spend more or they spend less. The worst is that you already know the answer, because I am sure that you in your family economy are much more austere. That is the problem, that we will not raise our heads as a nation until the public representatives have the same respect and care for the era that they have for the State and their own accounts. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, the creation of more commissions only makes it difficult for the Government to control it, that is to say, we would be putting obstacles as a legislative power on our own if we fired the number of commissions. In this way, the opposition's attention is dissipated and efforts are multiplied in a sterile way because the good control work is impossible for smaller groups, which obviously do not have enough Members to cover every mini-area that you are creating. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of all the parliamentary groups, you have the opportunity to show that in VOX we are wrong, you have the opportunity to show that it is not true what we are saying at this time, but we would like nothing more. The amendment we are proposing reduces the committees from 21 to 17, only four fewer. As you can see, we are not being maximalists, but, if we were, we would certainly reduce them further, because we also trust the working capacity of Members. It is perfectly possible to control this Government with 17 commissions and to reduce the number of spokespersons or subcommittees from 37 to 30. It is not a great effort, but it is a step in the right direction and would also entail a savings of more than 2 million euros to the era. I conclude with the VOX spokesman's statements at Gijón City Hall, returning 86.9% of the municipal grant received in 2019. He said: The economic policy of this group is very clear, public money is sacred; it comes out of the taxpayer's pocket and must be treated in an exquisite and transparent manner. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u131	Good night. First of all, congratulations to all the many new ministers in the Chamber today. From the speech we have just heard, from the amendment tabled by VOX, we agree with the argument that this ministerial structure is absolutely arbitrary, totally uneconomic, that it represents a large increase in public expenditure and that it has as its sole purpose to bring into the government those people who were going to vote in favour of the nomination of the president of the government. The only reason this Government is the one with the most ministries in the history of democracy is to accommodate people who, as we have heard before in some brilliant intervention, have decided to become caste, which, on the other hand, seems to be something good; we have even heard that you are going to turn to fiscal liberalism through the adoption of that royal decree-law that has been presented to us on tax measures. On the other hand, Mr de VOX, what happens is that the committees have to function to control the government, and in the distribution that we are asked to do, there are some where we would have to call almost three ministers, with vice-presidents, and we suspect that this would be a way of running the committees that would make them frankly inoperative. They are right, therefore, as far as reasoning is concerned: this is an absolutely out of place and totally artificial increase in public spending as a result of this artificial structure of this government, but we have to think that the commissions are operational. I would also like to say that, in this matter of committees, the Socialist Group has not even called us. We have not participated in the distribution of Commissions. There has been not the slightest parliamentary courtesy with the Citizens' Group and, in the end, we will retain our vote in abstention.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u133	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I wanted to debut at the rostrum in this legislature including two comments on the topic that brings us back today. The first relates to the amendment tabled by the VOX Group. I'm not done understanding what's coming to me. After Mr Espinosa de los Monteros' explanation, I think I still have more doubts. First of all, it seemed to me to hear a thesis of the so-called conspiracies, where 120 is equivalent to not knowing what cabalistic number; by the way, the garlic itself would be the People's Party. [[laughs]] Gentlemen of the PSOE, I don't know how you have done it but you have achieved the perfect conspiracy: to join even the People's Party there. Then says Mr Espinosa de los Monteros that they make a proposal not of maximums, even I think I have heard moderate, a word not very frequent in their vocabulary. I don't understand. Why then remove a few, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros? If you have a more ambitious proposal, present it, and so we will all know what degree of ambition you have in cutting off supposed superfluous expenses. But I would like to say that parliamentary work is a very sacrificed thing, you will have already realized it; it demands above all effort and planning; then I just have to tell you that they are applied, that they are up to the people who voted for them. Secondly, I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate myself on the fact that we have reached a vote in this House and the right-wings do not vote together. Moreover, the far right has today marked a path and for the first time in time the other two right-wings have decided not to follow it. I think this is something that deserves to be celebrated. Congratulations, therefore, to those two right-wings, to Citizens and the People's Party, because it seems that they have decided to enter the game and have not been thrown into the mountain; which, if I tell you the truth, is certainly harder for the Government itself, which will have to deal in that case with a thinner, more subtler, more effective opposition, but of course it will benefit the Spanish parliamentary system itself, and I am therefore glad that the right-wings want to play the parliamentary game and have therefore decided to support this proposal which we have jointly tabled by the People's Party, the Socialist Party and ourselves. So, what else can I say? Long live parliamentaryism! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u134	Thank you, Mr. Guijarro. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is parliamentary custom at the beginning of each parliamentary term to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House to adapt the organisation of the committees to the organic structure of the new government. This is not, therefore, an exceptional measure, nor is it an initiative with a particular political background, nor of course any endorsement of the new Government or its structure. It is, ladies and gentlemen, that this House can fully fulfil its constitutional functions, that it can fulfil its legislative role, and that we can finally also carry out the control work of the Government. It is about putting an end to this anomalous and persistent resistance that this Government has had in the past year to submit to parliamentary control of this House. [[Applauds]] To this end, nothing better than to awaken this Government from its indolence and force Mr. Sánchez, and his almost endless list of ministers, to come to account to the legitimate representatives of the citizens, and also to begin such accountability as soon as possible, for which it is essential that the commissions be approved and that they be set up. With that initiative, we prevent that excessive structure of the Government, that inflation of ministries, some with little competence, from being transferred to the organs of this House. That is why we have proposed - and this is what we are going to approve - to maintain the same number of committees as in the last legislatures; the same, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. That will mean that it will be the ministers who will have to adapt to our work organisation, not the other way around, and that in the current times is not a small amount, among other things because we are aware that this government has shown that it has a certain allergy to come to this House and to submit to control. In fact, on another ground it has already started to apply the roller to avoid it, that is, a Bolivarian roller and very progressive, I am not going to remove that adjective. A good example of this has been the unusual change of the Council of Ministers from Friday to Tuesday, which can hinder the work of control, forgetting something essential in a democratic regime, and is that government action is legitimized precisely by parliamentary control. And then they said they were coming to improve the quality of our democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] For that reason, I would ask the opposition groups in particular not to get lost in barren debates. Let us not offer the Government a new alibi to delay parliamentary control on the excuse that this Parliament is not starting because we do not agree. That is why, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I have not understood your argument at all. I find it demagogic that he accuses us all of coming here to hand over the charges. That's very unfair. Here we all come to work and to fulfil our constitutional functions, and that speech does not help at all to dignify the parliamentary work, that of all Members, including yours; including yours as well. [[Applauds]] I don't know what I meant. Nor has he defended the content of his amendment. I will refer to the content of it. Look, I have to tell you that concentrating powers on the same Commission can have just the opposite effect of what you are pursuing, that is, a reduction in legislative work and a reduction in parliamentary control. I would remind you of the Committee on Development Cooperation, which you want to delete and join with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is not set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House alone, but is set out by law, by article 15 of the Development Cooperation Act, so it cannot be deleted. And with regard to including equality in the Health Committee, what you want me to say to you, we do not agree; in that we are different. We want Equality to be a Commission with its own profile and with its own entity, because one thing is that we do not accept that the fight for equality is an exclusive heritage of the left, and another that we do not think that there is still a long way to go to achieve in full the equal rights, equal treatment and equal opportunities of all Spaniards, and that for us is irrefutable. [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, apart from the speeches that some have made, what we intend to do when we adopt this initiative is a rational organization of the work of the parliamentary committees. That there could have been other commissions? Maybe. That maybe one could have been reduced? Well, maybe. But what I cannot deny is that this proposal is sensible, balanced and based on the agreement following parliamentary precedents. What I cannot deny is that this proposal responds on the one hand to the new structure of the Government and also to the problems and demands of our citizens. What I cannot deny is that this proposal - and that is most important - will allow the Members of this House to legitimately control the action of the Government. So the sooner we start, the better for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u136	Thank you, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bermúdez de Castro, do not be complet, the People's Parliamentary Group has signed a proposal with the Socialist Group and with the United We can. It's okay; you're not the right coward for that; you're the right institutional, at least for an afternoon, and I hope so! [[Applauds]] Folklore ultra-rightist aside, in fact, what we bring here today is a traditional initiative: the traditional reform of the Rules of Congress, which is always done at the beginning of the legislature with the aim of setting up the commissions that will host the bulk of our legislative work to control the government and to drive government action. As usual, it is also the criterion used to make these proposals; the criterion of coherence: we adapt the structure of the committees to the structure of the Government which we have to control and whose legislative initiatives we have to deal with; as logical as this, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, criterion of efficiency. That is why, despite the fact that there are more ministers and ministers to make better policies, we do not increase a single Commission in the structure we propose to them, we even make a number of ministers appear in the same Commission. And the criterion of maximum agreement, because this proposal is signed by three parliamentary groups representing more than 240 Members, 70% of this House. It is true, it is not usual, it is not original; I would say that in these times it is even extravagant, but I wish it were. Of course, that's where our work is going. We are not going to accept the amendment by the VOX Group, firstly because it is based on tangible falsehood. He says there's an increase in public spending. Listen, no, that's a lie, Mr. Spinosa de los Monteros. Before there were 21 commissions, and now there are 21; the same presidents, the same spokespersons; there is no increase in public spending, it is an absolute falsehood. You're not tweeting, you're up in the congressional rostrum; please lie with a little more modesty. [[Applauds]] We are not working to reduce the number of committees too much because this would lead to the non-application of the principles of coherence, specificity and, ultimately, effectiveness in parliamentary work. We reject your amendment because we reject the ideological, sectarian and reactionary bias with which it has been elaborated, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Beyond distractions and conjugal congratulations, it is that you want to suppress some commissions that are not random. You want to abolish the Development Cooperation Commission because you are more in favour of conflict than of cooperation. [[Applauds]] You want to abolish the Commission on Social Rights because you are more in favour of abolishing rights than of extending rights. [[Applauds]] And you want to abolish the Equality Commission because you are more in favour of machismo than you are of equality. [[Applauds.-Various Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group raise their hands]] That is the bias of your reform proposal, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Well, we who are not in favour of it are you and your group. We are very afraid that what concerns you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, is not that there are 17 or 20 or 21 committees in this Parliament; what concerns you in recent days is that you are intuiting something; you are intuiting that the VOX Group is not going to chair one of the 17 or 20 or 21 committees. You write it down in your accounts. [[Applauds]] Zero, zero committees will chair the VOX Parliamentary Group. It is called democratic hygiene and we will practice it with fruition and enthusiasm; creannos. [[Protests]] You want to delete four commissions...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u139	...and what we suspect, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, is that you would not suppress 5, neither 5 nor 6, you would suppress the 21st and put here in front of a lieutenant colonel with a mustache, if possible. [[Laughter and applause]] But it's not going to happen, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I assure you. Mr Bal, they say that we have not called them for the distribution of the commissions. What do you mean, the distribution of commissions? This is a democracy, Mr Bal, and the chairmanships of the committees are not distributed, they are elected; they are elected by the votes. [[Protests]] We have 120 and you 10, that's what happened, as easy as that. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to accept the amendment and what we are going to do is what has been done in Spanish democracy over the last 40 years: democratic practice. And I say forty years because I cannot say fifty and I cannot say sixty, for reasons which you all understand and which I am convinced that the vast majority of those present regret, the vast majority minus the Members of VOX. No to the VOX amendment, no to VOX. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u140	Thank you, Mr. Simancas. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u141	Let's start with the votes. Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 1/2020 of 14 January establishing the revaluation and maintenance of pensions and public benefits of the social security system. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 3 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 286 plus 3 telematics votes, 289; abstentions, 49.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u142	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 2/2020, OF 21 JANUARY, APPROVING EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF RETRIBUTIONS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR. [[File number 130/00003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u143	Secondly, Royal Decree-Law 2/2020 of 21 January approving urgent measures in the area of public sector remuneration. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 3 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 288 plus 3 telematics votes, 291; abstentions, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u144	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 119 votes in favour, 122 votes against, 167 votes in favour, 55 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u145	It will not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 18/2019, OF 27 DECEMBER, BY WHICH DETERMINED MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF TRIBUTARY, CATASTRAL AND SOCIAL SECURITY ARE ADOPTED. [[File number 130/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u146	Third, Royal Decree-Law 18/2019 of 27 December, adopting certain measures in the field of taxation, cadastral and social security. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 344 votes in favour, 186 votes in favour, 189 votes against, 83 abstentions, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u147	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 plus 3 telematics, 345; 122 plus 3 telematics, 125; 160; abstentions, 60.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u148	It will not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u149	Direct and read-only processing of the proposal for reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1. An amendment has been tabled and we will therefore vote first on the amendment by the VOX Group. Amendment number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 51 against, 281 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u150	The amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u151	Finally, the general vote referred to in Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure is to be taken and, in accordance with the second final provision, the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the House will be required. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 346 in favour, 291 in favour, 294 in favour, 52 in favour and 3 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-04-CD200204.u152	Accordingly, the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies amending Rule 46.1 was approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was eight and ten minutes of the night.
