ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u1	The meeting was called to order. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the interpellations, in the sense that the urgent inquiry of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which is on the agenda as item 24, is first debated, and then the urgent inquiry of the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil, which is on the agenda as item 23. This Presidency also submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that point 31, which corresponds to the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the request made in relation to a Member of the European Parliament, follows points 27 and 28 relating to the reports of the Ombudsman relating to the management carried out during the years 2018 and 2019. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendments to the agenda were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group, to reform Law 9/1968 of 5 April on official secrets. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] I ask you for a little silence, please, because the President will stop talking and will start talking to the Members who deserve all respect. Thank you very much. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Fifty-two years have passed since the adoption of this law, passed under a dictatorial regime, and this is the fourth initiative to try to reform it. I hope that, beyond consideration, this initiative will succeed later. As a result of this law, which has been in force for fifty-two years, researchers, historians and citizens in general learn about things that happen in Spain through documents that are declassified in third countries. It is true that the Government has recently authorized that some military legacies prior to 1968 could be consulted and that it will consider whether the documents in the Avila Military Archives can be consulted. But we continue in what archivists and researchers call amnesic transition or secretist paranoia. Today, not only the Spanish Government can secretly classify a document, but also the Presidency of the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Industry and other agencies. By the way, they are classifications that today go even beyond what the law says, since there are reserved, confidential or dissemination classifications and the law only admits two types of classification. And all this followed, more or less, under the seal of the National Security Office, dependent on the CNI. Today, it is secret to say that something has been classified as secret, with which the agreements of the Council of Ministers even, even if they occur, are not known; when you are going to request certain documentation, you learn that this cannot be provided to you. By the way, I recall that the last time it was taken into consideration, amendments were tabled by some parliamentary groups, and some proposed that, beyond all that, it should be possible to classify secrecy as a matter of course; that is, that someone who was going to apply for a document should be told by the Administration that it had not classified it as a secret but that it should also be classified as a secret. Put yourself in a secret. That seems to me the best, but there is an amendment with that tenor. We are currently failing to comply with international archival and documentation instructions, the recommendations of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe on administrative communication, the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Public Documents and Information. In the current law, part of the Government can do what it wants, and since there are no criteria on what can or cannot be classified or how to justify it, because there is no need to justify it, there are no obligations; and since there are no obligations, there is a genuine desidiy when it comes to declassifying them. One of the major problems of this law is that there is no formula or mechanism for declassification of documents. The aim is to end this abusive and widespread practice. Moreover, documents have often been classified by blocks, from an area, in general, without more. I could give a few examples: agreements of 1986, 1995, 1996, 2010, with Moratinos, practically the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 2014, 2015. That is to say, most military, diplomatic, counter-terrorism, reserved expenditure documents are classified as secret today, and many documents, I insist, do not pass through the Council of Ministers. What do we propose? We propose to follow the model of our counterparts, of countries that are in our environment, that set a temporary criterion, so that there is an automatism of deadlines for the declassification of documents. I do not believe that the United States has more secrets than Spain, and the usual deadline is twenty years - automatic deadlines, I insist - unless there is an imminent danger to security, which must be absolutely justified, or a danger to someone. But this is the same temporary criterion that exists in the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland and so on. We have not gone beyond that; indeed, we have not wanted to go beyond the shorter deadlines that exist in other legislations. What we propose is, in principle, the same classification: reserved secrets. Reserves that declassify in ten years. Those who are secret, reasonably, the Council of Ministers could even extend that classification ten years longer. They should therefore be known within a maximum of thirty-five years. And what we are asking is that it be, only and exclusively, the Council of Ministers that gives the approval for the classification of documents, because, nowadays, being so lax, in the end, one official or another, one responsible or another, what decides is that, in case it is, that it is secret; and that cannot be. It must be the only and only Council of Ministers. I believe that our proposal is consistent with transparency and with the Transparency Act, which, by the way, could have done much more on this subject - at the time, the Historical Memory Act could have done too - so that we can talk normally about issues that seem taboo, so that citizens and researchers know, after a period of thirty-five years, that I think it is more than enough, what happened. Of course, I cannot agree with those claims made about defending the State. I would say no, that this is not the case, because the State, after all, is the citizens, it is the people; the citizens are already of age to be able to judge for themselves. I would say that, if the state and the defense of the state are put as an excuse and as a parapet, it is because some and some equally what they are defending is not the country, but their own interests. I therefore ask you to support this consideration; and, beyond all that, amendments in which we can all find ourselves and be reasonable, not of the kind I have described before, and, of course, that the institutions function; that is, that the deadlines for amendments have an end and that the Constitutional Commission meets in order to be able to debate this matter, both in paper and in the Commission. Because, the truth is, so far, we have seen very good intentions, positive votes, but we have not passed and we believe that this is an urgent matter. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mr Fernández-Roca Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, be the first words I speak in this rostrum in remembrance and mourning of the thousands of compatriots who died because of the Wuhan virus and, from here, our affection for their families and friends. With deep sadness, I refer to the thousands of victims because, to this day, we still do not know the actual number of dead, because this Social-Communist Government hides this number from us. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, let us call things by their name, this poorly-worked patch, which you describe as a proposal for a law, has no more purpose than to pick up the nuts of political opportunism. From my parliamentary group we agreed on the need to address an amendment to the Official Secrets Act because, as you have rightly pointed out, you are over fifty years old, but since the protection of the fundamental interests of Spain. As an example of the concern that arouses this transcendental legal matter, our parliamentary group has called this turn against in order to set out in detail the reasons for our refusal to this bill. However, we note with deep concern that the groups with the highest representation in this House are not on the side of those who defend the general interests above any partisan interests. We are talking about a reform that should have been structural and ambitious, bearing in mind the particular relevance of this legal matter, and not a vague reform that does not meet the required precision of issues affecting the national security and defence of our country. Gentlemen of the PNV, how will your political party defend the general interest of the Spaniards, when with their complicit silence they have allowed the heirs of those who caused irreparable damage to our compatriots because of terrorist barbarism and who are represented in the seat of national sovereignty, to outrage the 829 Spaniards vilely murdered by the terrorist band ETA, to continue to mark the political agenda of terror in Álava, Guipúzcoa and Vizcaya? I hope you will condemn - as I understand that you will also make the other political forces represented here - the attempts of aggression that our parliamentary group, which our political party, has suffered this past weekend in the cities of San Sebastián and Bilbao. [[Applauds]] The objective they pursue with this consideration is very clear, publicly exposing the highest State secrets by declassifying documents prior to 1995, e.g. those relating to LAGs or 23-F. However, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, I do not see that they show any interest in declassifying the minutes of the negotiation with the terrorist gang ETA that the socialist government of former President Zapatero has already taken on the task of legally shielding it from the scope of this legal rule. [[Applauds]] Its purpose - shared by communists, enemies of Spain and philotetras - is to equip itself with a documentary basis to publicly delegitimize the constitutional system born in 1978, attacking the monarchy and the political forces whose consensus enabled the Transition in Spain. This bill seeks to justify that, while the national security and defence of our country is a constitutionally protected value, its protection is not absolute because it must be compatible with other principles armored by our Magna Charter. We could agree on the latter, however, you point to the power of the Chambers to collect information from the Government, article 109 of the Constitution, in accordance with the existing social sensitivity regarding the value of transparency; transparency within the framework of the 2013 Act, yes, but if the social sensitivity to which you appeal constitutes the armoring of the Vice-President Churches in the Government Delegate Commission for Intelligence Affairs and which has access to the highest State secrets, even though it would not approve the security examination carried out by the National Intelligence Centre to verify the degree of loyalty, honesty and reliability of those candidates who access classified documentation, they will definitely find us against it. [[applause]] Nor do they state that access to information may be restricted in certain circumstances, in accordance with two constitutional requirements, article 20.4 and - particularly relevant in this regard - article 105 of the Constitution, paragraph (b), which expressly states that such freedom of access to information will be affected by those matters affecting the security and defence of Spain. They argue, moreover, that, according to your interpretation of article 72 of the Constitution, the power to decide the procedure by which the Legislature must in any case control the Executive also of matters subject to the classification of security should reside in the Chambers themselves. They are thus subject to an unjustified application of that provision, since, while it is for the respective Chambers to draft their regulations, there is no reservation of law as to whether its content affects the question in question, so that the basis for the claim necessarily lapses. They have not even noticed the fact that the Senate does not have a regime similar to that of the Congress of Deputies to ensure access to such classified documents. It should also be recalled that, in accordance with article 97 of the Constitution, the necessary participation of the bodies and institutions under the executive branch responsible for carrying out the classification tasks in accordance with their functions is by no means excluded. Thus, for example, it is not incompatible with the constitutional powers of the Government to deconcentrate this power on the heads of the ministerial departments or on the military authority under the direct dependence of the minister of the branch. Similarly, they remove from a pen the power of the Chiefs of Staff Board of the authority to classify documents far from making a terminological change for their adaptation to the current chief designation of the Defence Staff. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an example on this issue. The reports prepared in the Air Force on flight safety are classified as secret and are fundamental in the prevention of aircraft accidents and, subject to the proposed amendment, these reports would be emptied of content by compromising the sensitive information of them, military aircraft some of which are widely used by members of this social-communist government. But his lordships of the PNV do not like our Armed Forces; they have already demonstrated this in the face of their refusal to deploy the EMU in the Basque provinces. They are still in time to seek UME support to locate the lifeless bodies of Joaquín and Alberto, who have been buried in the landfill of Zaldívar for over a hundred days. [[Applauds]] The secret in Spain, as in any democratic State governed by law, is not an end in itself, but an instrument at the service of superior constitutional goods that require a reasonable consideration of the public interests at stake. They should therefore have carried out an in-depth analysis of the comparative law of other models whose effectiveness is evident. In the United States, for example, in the case of documents classified as high secrecy, automatic declassification is not permitted, but it should be the body that classified them who proceeded with their declassification. This seems to be common sense, ladies and gentlemen. We can agree from our parliamentary group that a time limit should be set for this declassification, but there must be this prior examination because, otherwise, the automatic declassification of highly sensitive subjects which could undermine national security and interests would be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in the introduction of the transitional provision where the real motivation of the legislator lies: the incorporation of a deadline for automatic declassification, and not only that, but that these documents could be examined in non-secret session by simple agreement of the Bureaux of the Chambers if this were to be provided for in their respective regulations. As a result of this reform, State secrets would be exposed to public scrutiny and to the disposal of the enemies of Spain, both inside and outside our borders. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to abuse the use of the word I have given, and I would like to end by saying to you that this parliamentary group is not against the declassification of classified subjects, but we are against that automatic declassification per se. What concerns my parliamentary group, and I understand that millions of Spaniards too, is that the necessary reform of what we are discussing today is used by certain groups for spurious purposes, putting their partisan interests before the general interest of the Spanish nation. And do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the interests of Spain are eternal and perpetual and our obligation is to look after them. For all of the above, the VOX Parliamentary Group will vote no to this amendment of the Official Secrets Act and we will present an alternative text that addresses the complexity of the matter under discussion in this House. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u6	Thank you, Mr Fernández-Roca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u7	Hearing the representative of VOX, he should vote in favour in order to be able to make the law in conditions. The first thing I want to say is that any attempt at aggression is repudiable. It must also be said that the Ertzaintza protected them and fulfilled their obligation. But I would ask you one thing: do not base your campaign on looking for the sham, because they choose the most conflictive neighborhoods. I don't want to know if... [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: La Concha.-Rumores]] Yes, San Francisco, for example. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: La Concha y San Francisco]] The Ertzaintza has fulfilled its duty and will continue to do so, and any attempt at aggression is repudiable, but do not seek the bane as a campaign goal. That you oppose this says that we have been right, sincerely. They say it's a poorly-worked patch. A vague reform? No, vague is what there is now, it is absolute freedom for classification and not for declassification. If you are underworked, take it into consideration and submit amendments. Why not? They say how we will defend the interests of Spain, which are eternal and perpetual. Then he also spoke of enemies of Spain, he qualified half or more of the Chamber of enemies of Spain. There are enemies of Spain and friends of Spain, those who defend the interests and those who are against, and the qualification you put it. I believe that I defend the values of democracy better than you, I believe that my party does, too, and I believe that we defend the interests of citizens as a whole better than you. Yeah, that's what I think. You'll think that. Well, I think the exact opposite is true. He says there's a problem, that what's going to be done here, if anyone is going to be able to see secret documents, etc. We have not changed the law at that point, we have only left it to the Rules of the Chambers, as the law itself now says, to regulate it. Of course, it may or may not be, depending on, but that will be decided by this House. At the moment, at least eighty-eight Members must request it to see a secret document. I'll tell you more. I, who am on the Committee on Official Secrets, have never seen a secret document. They're gonna give it to us...! Yeah, you don't believe it either. And all persons who are in this House because they have been elected have the right to see those documents if they are elected for that Commission or for any other person who may have access to those documents. What happens, that some, because they are socialcommunists or separatist reds, we cannot see them and you do, of course, because they defend the eternal and perpetual values of Spain? You'll tell me exactly what that is. So, if you really want to honor the truth, pass the law and let's see what happens. We're not looking for anything in particular, I can assure you. That things are going to show up? Of course, and that will be healthy for democracy and surely for its political and even family ancestors, much more will appear than for others. Nuts. Don't signal me with your finger, Spinosa, don't signal me with your finger, which is very ugly to point with your finger...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u9	I know you're very much yours, but no. Let's see, nuts, over and over. Every time they tell me about nuts, the only nuts I know come to my head, which are Chip and Chop. I don't know if you remember Chip and Chop, two funny very nice squirrels, very funny, and that they were confronted, you know by whom, among others? [[applause]] By the Hanging Gulfs, and in that I do think you look quite like the Hanging Gulfs, in substance and adjective. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u10	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: And nothing's wrong?-Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Fernández-Roca Suárez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, frankly, in order to defend a bill of this magnitude, it seems to me that his intervention is more in the comedy club than in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] This issue we are dealing with is very serious. On what you said, first of all, about seeking the banter: Is exercising the legitimate right of freedom of expression in Spain, in any corner of Spain, to seek banter?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] It's a shame. To pay tribute to the 829 victims killed vilely by the terrorist band ETA that you are bleaching in Vascongadas is not funny. To defend that in Spain an undercover state of emergency has been approved, which has curtailed the exercise of up to eleven fundamental rights and public freedoms, something that our political party is the only party that is denouncing as active and passive when this social communist government stands up as the defender of human rights in Spain is not a joke. Please begin to allow us in Spain to freely exercise our fundamental rights and stop saying that a VOX rally is a provocation and to seek scorn. [[Applauds]] Worry more than you have at home and ask, I repeat, the support of the UME to locate our compatriots, Joaquín and Alberto, who are still buried in the landfill of Zaldivar.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u12	Mr Fernández-Roca, please, let us focus on the issue of the agenda item.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u13	I'm going on, Madam President. [[Rumors]] I don't think you've heard me, Mr. Esteban. Our parliamentary group is not against declassification; we are against declassification per se, because I repeat to you again that the same thing you have to do is a comparative law analysis and see other models that are quite effective. I quote again the example of the United States of America, where it is the classification body that has competence in declassification, because this is common sense. And I again set the example of the Air Force and the secret flight safety reports, which are fundamental to preserving security, so that there are no accidents in the Air Force, so that the members of the Government can fly peacefully, both in the Falcon and in the VIP transport helicopters, and to preserve the integrity of the members of our Armed Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández-Roca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u15	Thank you, President. For us, the first thing to say about the amendment of the Law on Official Secrets that the PNV brings us today is that it is a law drafted in full frankness and it is an existing law. Therefore, when we talk about connections between dictatorship and democracy in the Spanish State, we are not talking about invisible and difficult-to-explain power meshes, but about legislative and concrete texts like this. The amendment proposed by the PNV, which has already been tried, affects from our perspective two substantial issues, has already been said in this rostrum. The first is the LAG. Today, PSOE, VOX, the People's Party and Citizens have prevented a commission of inquiry following CIA declassified documents that pointed to former President Felipe González as the cornerstone of state terrorism. It also affects the attempted coup d'état of 23 February, which is still being shot in this Congress, in which it is suspected that the Emeritus King is involved, to whom there is no way to investigate in this Congress, and Felipe González himself. In fact, in March 2014, journalist Dolores Urbano published La Gran Desmemoria. I read a fragment: 'For Suárez it is very clear already at that moment that the Armed Operation is born in Zarzuela and that the soul is the King: that - Don Juan Carlos is the grinder for the Armada to be the president of a concentration government. Even the King himself knew the government that the coup player had prepared. A government in which, among others, Felipe González was vice-president.' [[Rumors]] Everything brings us back to the monarchy, to the Regime of 78 and to a reason of authoritarian state. [[Protests]] I don't know why they get so nervous, I'd appreciate a little silence. Thank you. Jordi Cuixart wrote this very week in a letter to the partners of Ómnium Cultural: 'The perpetual impunity of Bourbon corruption or the impunity of the police brutality of 1-O are two sides of the same coin'. [[Rumors]] To us all these scandals, all this opacity, all this reason of authoritarian state again leads us, by ethical imperative, democratic and practical even, to the construction of the Catalan countries as the only possible alternative. [[A honourable Member: Delinquent!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u17	Yes, silence and stop insulting. This is where politics comes in. If you have any problems, go up here and apply political arguments, and stop insulting. Thank you. I'm done. Today is Sant Joan, the national day of the Catalan countries, and I finish with a piece of song from a Catalan group, they will allow me, to wish you a good verbena. The song says: [[pronounce words in Catalan]] Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u19	President, ladies and gentlemen, it's getting good in the afternoon! We want to see the first question, and it is June 2020 and we are talking about a 1968 law, signed by a fascist dictator, Francisco Franco Bahamonde. That in itself is a historical anomaly that should make us reflect. But in addition to that, in case few things were missing, we had the opportunity to listen to speeches of democratic involution, speeches of longing of past times that were based on the concealment, on the persecution of the dissident, precisely with labels such as those that Mr Esteban pointed out in his speech. We are therefore talking about repealing a law, the Official Secrets Act 1968 - I repeat - signed by the fascist dictator Francisco Franco Bahamonde. The same law did not set any time limits for the declassification of the papers and left it to the political or military authority to do so at some point. Since the military authority had some kind of foundation in 1968 it could be questionable - it was a dictatorship - but that in 2020 it continues to have that pope says quite a lot about the efficiency and the democratic quality of the Spanish state or the way that remains for him to go in order to be able to point out, as they often do - and in this they do not differentiate most of the political parties - as a full democracy and of law. They are only declassified at specific and inconsequential times. There have been some examples throughout history, always with a finalist political utility, always with a partial reading of the roles to be declassified. We could talk about the 11-M roles, we could talk about how in a week papers were declassified - a few - to try to strengthen the theory, absolutely spurious and false, that ETA had been the author of the 11-M attacks. For that we did not have to wait long, for that there was no permanent classification, for that there was political intentionality. But we could also talk about why these roles are hidden, what democracy needs to hide from citizens, what democracy interprets the defence of citizens as an obligation that prevents them from telling the truth. I think someone who was a minister in the Spanish state, someone who died not long ago, said that people deserve a government that doesn't lie to them. Then, we urge the present Government to comply with that sentence, not to lie to them, because one way of lying is to hide the truth, one way of lying is not to say what happened with the dirty war, what was behind the ZEN plan that was applied in the dirty war against Euskal Herria, what was behind the LAGs, why only a few cases were judged in relation to the LAGs that had to do with Lasa and Zabala and that had to do with the declassification of papers that, at judicial instance and after the leaking of a person who was sentenced by a military court to seven years - Mr. Perote - could give rise to the case and the trial. Why are all these crimes still unclear in Euskal Herria or in the territory of Euskal Herria? We would also have to talk about the historical memory and we would have to talk about what the Spanish State has done since 1936 until now that it is so impudent that it sees the light, what is so dangerous for the defense of the perpetual ideal - like a flame - of the Spanish State so that it cannot be known. That's all there is behind it. We should, of course, talk about 23-F; we should talk about white elephants, why not, if in this House there has been talk of elephants many times to talk about a political reading that the Democratic Party was doing with the elephant in the room. Well, let's talk about the white elephant and let's talk about the permanent memory of the shots in the dome of this House and let's see what was behind it. Why are we afraid of that? Why do we think that citizenship is underage to understand what the state has really had to do to keep itself is not well known about what and who and, above all, how? It is also said that the people who do not know their history are condemned to repeat it, and one way that they do not know their history is to keep the secrets of the State classified. If this initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party is not approved, I propose to those who decide not to approve it that, at least, they have the dignity to change the law and that, instead of calling it the Official Secrets Act, they call it a law of incontestable aberrations, because surely with that they will have to see that this law cannot be passed or with that they will have to see that again, we have to be here today, in this rostrum, defending these positions, when the Basque Nationalist Party - and it is fair to admit it - has done so on previous occasions, when it has seen how this law was blocked for two years without any argument or reason. Why can't you know what the Spanish state does to defend itself from not knowing who and how? What do you have to hide? I'm done with a question. If they don't do it for the proponents, they don't do it for the sociocommunist or red separatist partners - for me it's a pride to be qualified like this - do it even for the people who claim truth, justice and reparation. Because in order to make an effective path of truth, justice and reparation - and in this House I have claimed it and proclaimed it - we and we, the people of the Basque sovereignist independenceist left, are fulfilling, but it is also necessary for the Spanish State to comply, govern whoever governs. Let them be clear, this is not a direct attack on any political formation; it would in any case be so for all those who deny truth, justice and reparation to all victims of State violence, who are also in the classified roles. Do so also for Germán, for the platform Sanfermines 78 Gogoan; do so for the workers of 3 March, who are very well reminded of Alberto and Joaquin, of the two workers buried in Zaldivar, but what would really honor them is to bury the xenophobic, racist and exclusional ideals that are heard in this House. That is what should be buried in Zaldivar and not the bodies of these two people. I shall end with two questions. Marx said that history repeats itself, the first as a tragedy and the second as a farce. I hope this time the German sage is not right and at least approve this commission. And since we're talking about official secrets, let me at least not lie here and call things by their name. The first: San Francisco is a neighborhood of Bilbao and it is not a marginal neighborhood; it is a working-class neighborhood and it is a poor neighborhood, but it is a neighborhood with conscience. That's probably why - that's why - the gentlemen of VOX have these votes who are going to give a rally, these, and I'm not saying it in rhetorical and figurative terms, I'm saying it in real terms: one vote, one vote. [[lifts the index finger of the hand]] Probably what is marginal, what is conflicting is going there to provoke with xenophobic, incendiary and racist speeches, threatening the entire population of that neighborhood. They were probably as lost as a Ku Klux Klan activist in Harlem. We by antifascist attitude, either in Bilbao...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u20	Mr. Matute...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u21	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u22	No, it's not just that I'm done, but that I'll take care of it, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u23	Yes, I was going to announce the meaning of the vote, which I think is quite pertinent.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u25	As I said, both in Bilbao, in any of its neighborhoods, as in Donostia, and in the whole of Euskal Herria and also in this House we will vote in favour, because we ultimately want truth, justice, reparation, transparency and democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u26	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Respect for the law and institutions is a necessary condition for the day-to-day functioning of this common project, which is a nation. It is not enough to invoke inherited legitimacy, because public opinion demands not only that the institutions perform their functions reasonably, but exemplary. One of the ways in which the institutions and the Government of a country gain the respect and trust of its citizens is through the responsible exercise of transparency in their actions. I began with this paragraph my speech before this House on April 27, 2016, in the consideration of this same bill, on the proposal of the same parliamentary group that is now doing it, the Basque Nationalist Party, and I also did so on November 29 of the same year. It has been more than four years and we continue to do the same: the PNV cuts and sticks and this House repeats past debates. I don't think this is a great show of public utility, ladies and gentlemen. We say that nothing has changed, but it is not true; many things have changed, but they have changed for the worse. We now have a weaker government, which depends on populists and independenceists for its choice of government; we have more polarization, more tension; we have a left-wing populism that no longer storms the skies, but sits on the blue seats of the government, and a right-wing populism that replicates its symmetrical, refueling old impulses that had disappeared from the lives of citizens. The extremes are touched, ladies and gentlemen, and among them, in the middle, the Spaniards unfortunately remain as hostages. So we go back to the old, old pre-constitutional law of 1968 and the PNV brings back the same wording. Ladies and gentlemen, many amendments were tabled by the parliamentary groups to these legislative proposals in the year I mentioned, and the PNV could have used these amendments to reach consensus and improve its proposal. I think that would be logical if you really wanted to end more than fifty years of opacity, but no, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, you would recalculate your two previous legislative proposals word for word, and that you presume of excellent management, good parliamentaryism and bargaining efficiency. Every time the PNV cannot blackmail the PP or the PSOE from a position of force, its bubble is punctured, gentlemen of the PNV; otherwise, as has already been said. ask the relatives of Joaquín and Alberto, the two dead in Zaldivar, who have already been buried for 137 days after tons of rubble without the Basque government being able to do anything. It has this proposal of law much to do then with transparency or rather with its opposite, with opacity, secrecy or confidential information. It is not credible, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, to support this process when this government has been using the transparency portal and official secrets as communicating vessels. They have emptied the transparency portal of scandals and turned them into official secrets for no one to know. They say they haven't closed the transparency portal, but they're suspending response times. The result is exactly the same, ladies and gentlemen. The Government still does not provide the name of the supplier who acted as intermediary in the purchase of that failed diagnostic test item for COVID-19, they do not offer real numbers of the number of tests performed and why we are already going to talk about the actual numbers of those who died in this crisis. The matter, ladies and gentlemen, can be transparent, translucent or opaque. Well, you directly, gentlemen of the Government, have blacked out the transparency and accountability of the Government. Respecting transparency is respect for democracy, gentlemen of the government, but Mr Sánchez confuses the state with the government and official secrets with his personal secrets. You want to turn secrets into voices, like the Falcon's excesses, into official secrets. They want to put the recruitments to their finger, World Health Organization alerts or plugs, and misrepresentation with the pandemic statistics in a drawer and throw three turnkeys at it. The Socialist Party has turned transparency into what Podemos has turned the fight against corruption: once again negators and revisionists of their own words. At this stage, one day we will learn that they have also turned Mr Marlaska into an official secret. Ladies and gentlemen, it is understandable to set limits because of the security and defence of the nation. However, this cannot lead to a loss of citizens' rights and freedoms. We understand that your bill, gentlemen of the PNV, needs to amend many other articles and improve the already obsolete legal text. They have it in the amendments already tabled by the groups to the same proposal, but, by ignoring them, they have shown that their real intention is not to amend this old law, but simply to comply with the procedure of completing its quota. For this reason, Mr Esteban, we are going to abstain. Do we want to change this law? Of course we want to change it, but we don't want to be architects of putting a patch, which is what you want to do. Citizens are not going to fall into the disdain that old politics has shown for many decades. We are a reformist, regenerationist and, as such, ambitious party in proposing changes for our country. We are not going to settle for a patch, for a short and sticky one, Mr. Esteban, which is the only thing you have done when you bring this bill back. In Citizens we are credible in terms of national security and defence, I believe that infinitely more credible than the Basque Nationalist Party and that those who have been accustomed to bargain with them for forty years, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u28	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, ma'am, Guille. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u29	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing here an old proposal, a proposal which has been accepted on many occasions and which has then been set up many times with the permanent extension of deadlines for the submission of amendments to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies. It is, by the way, quite common that there is a lot of friction where there are chambers and that where there are no chambers there is a lot more agreements than it seems here between the Socialist Party and the People's Party. The amendment of the 1968 Law on Official, Pre-Constitutional Secrets, which does not set deadlines, which does not establish independent mechanisms for declassification, is something that should not in fact be so rare. It is common in countries around us, it is something that researchers, historians, journalists and even many Members of this House simply and plainly ask to be able to do their job. So why do some people get so nervous? Why is this happening? Why do some get so excited and get so nervous? Because the discussion is not about the Official Secrets Act, in fact, the discussion is not even about the past of our country; the discussion is about the present of Spain, because some of you actually believe that the Spaniards cannot know our past. They believe that we are something like a underage people, that we cannot face some aspects a little darker or on which there has been less light on their past and that is why we could only base our coexistence on silence. Thus, in reality, initiatives are vetoed, commissions of inquiry are prohibited, statements are erased from the Journal of Sessions and those who promote them are accused of wanting to divide or reopen wounds. A kind of brutal cultural pessimism underlies the background: the Spaniards are not mature enough to know our past. I just don't think that's true. Mr de VOX said earlier: the eternal interests of Spain must be protected. Should we protect them from the Spanish? Is it that you have so little confidence in Spanish democracy that you should protect it from the will of the Spaniards to know what has happened at other times in our past? I don't think so. I know it's always ugly to look inside the insides of a political party, a board of directors of a big company, a government or a state, but if no one takes over for a long time, things are rotten, or worse, as if we were a second-rate country, we are ashamed that some of the best Hispanic historians are foreigners, that those who have investigated the dictatorship's mass graves have done so with money from foreign universities, that we learn of commissions of inquiry that can't be done here thanks to The New York Times, or that what is deleted here from the Journal of Sessions turns out that we read it in the Swiss Public Prosecutor's Office. Gentlemen, this is not a discussion about the past of Spain, it is essentially a discussion about the future. It is not to settle accounts with the past, but to tell the rulers and state leaders that they are coming that society will know how things are done and that it will ask for accounts. We believe that that, not silence, is to take care of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u30	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had a few speeches and the truth is that the threshold of dislates that has come to be heard has left the bar very high and it is difficult to intervene with some rigour on this issue. It seems to me that what the Basque Nationalist Party is proposing is a common sense that is difficult to combat. We're talking about a 1968 law. I would like to recall that in 1968 the President of Russia was Leonidas Brézhnev, the President of the United States was Lyndon Johnson and the man had not yet reached the moon. In Spain the leader was Francisco Franco, who finally approved and signed the law, which was developed by a regulation signed by Luis Carrero Blanco. We are talking about this, a law that refers to the National Movement Council, the Press Law and the Fundamental Laws. We are talking about this and I believe that what the Basque Nationalist Party proposes is an absolute common sense. It's 2020. We cannot remain anchored in the same situation of the mid-twentieth century, because today the citizenry, which is mature, demands transparency. The political class, as has already been shown, must be responsible for all its actions and there must be transparency. Mr Aitor Esteban speaks with a certain Basque accent, but he is perfectly understood, and I say this because one of the speakers I believe has heard a speech completely different from that which I have heard. No one is proposing the repeal of the Official Secrets Act; they are proposing an adaptation that I believe is even very moderate. I imagine they already come with the experience of having proposed it several times and that it has finally been rejected by the most varied dilatory techniques. To me personally, that time limit of twenty-five plus ten seems excessive to me, among other things, because it exceeds the prescription of the most serious crimes. The two points put forward by the Basque Nationalist Party basically seek to limit. It is clear that there must be official secrets - in any country there are - but let us restrict them only to the Council of Ministers and not to any authority. Well, the 1969 Rules still spoke of civilian governors. Finally, we are going to say that only the Council of Ministers and we are going to limit it in time. These are substantially the two changes that need to be adapted. Of course, some of them remain anchored in the 1968 period, because we have heard references to the vascondas, that is, we are. I believe that this is an essential exercise because, if the majority of this House does not choose to deal with this law with the amendments that at the time correspond to have a law according to the democracies of our environment, in the end they will be able to spend money with global Spain or with the Spanish brand that Spain's contempt does not save it for many millions of euros that are spent. That is, if the parliamentary majority continues to veto that this law can move forward, I assure you that from the outside you will see the picture of this democracy no longer in black and white but in sepia color. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u32	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain the secret is eternal. Everyone in this House has surely heard from some citizen that all politicians are the same, and the truth is that in some respects it might seem so. Transparency is one of these issues. Is there any political party in this Chamber that has not spoken of transparency in any meeting or in the middle of an election campaign? Probably not. Today, however, we are faced with a proposal for a law that should allow us to distinguish between those who speak of transparency and those who really bet on it. The Official Secrets Commission is that place where you talk about what you can't know. In the Republican Left we have been made very clear many times what it means to veto our participation in this Commission during numerous legislatures. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, what do you want to hide from us? To me, as I am sure that many of the comrades who have been here for a few years in Congress, it is absolutely impossible for me to understand how there are certain things that are not only hidden from the general public but also from all the Members of Parliament. Are we not all present members of this House? Does anyone think he is more worthy of the democratic mandate of the citizenry than the others? Does not article 23 of the Constitution, that sacrosanct rule for some, say that all citizens have the right - and I quote textually - to participate in public affairs, directly or through representatives? Or is that only if you vote well, that is, if you vote for the regime's parties? Enough opacity, in the current regulatory framework, in the current laws, we find some clues that allow us to imagine why they do not want that transparency they preach. First, we see how there is a law of transparency, in theory of application to all public administrations of the state, including the royal house. However, when one continues to read, one realizes that, despite this, the Bourbons are not obliged to account for the business done with the money that comes out of the General Budgets of the State. How do you understand this? How can we talk about transparency and at the same time allow the institution in which the Head of State is based to do business with public money without having to explain it? It's an absolute contradiction, stop fooling people. Secondly, in the same sense it makes us suspect to see all the scandals the royal family is going through during the last few days. If you really have nothing to hide, why can't you investigate and discuss your action in this Parliament? Thirdly, what if a humble Member considers that, following her republican and democratic convictions and applying the electoral programme for which she was chosen, she has to ask in this Chamber what happens to King Emeritus and Corina Larsen? What about Saudi Arabia's commissions hidden in tax havens like the Bahamas? What involvement has the rest of the royal family had in the Noos case? What is true of the $100 million in commissions collected from the KIO Group? What about the commissions associated with arms trafficking? Or what happened today, that the Bureau of this House, PSOE, PP and VOX...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u34	Mrs. Telechea, I have to get you to the point, please. We are discussing the consideration of a proposed law on official secrets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u35	Yes, indeed, Madam President. I am precisely arguing why our position is. The Bureau of this House has vetoed the committee of inquiry by the LAGs and Mr Felipe González, despite the favourable report by the lawyers in this House. As everyone knows, there is an endless list of Bourbon scandals that are surely of public knowledge and that could continue to be listed throughout the afternoon. Honestly, I don't think any of the people here today are dumb and don't know; everyone knows it, but I think there's a fundamental difference between some of us. For us, the democratic principle is first and foremost on the scale of values, that transparency; for others, what is at the summit is the maintenance of privileges. Surely the Members who are in this second group are here to defend the privileged and, right now, they are hoping that the same thing will happen to me as last week and what has just happened, that my right to freedom of expression and political initiative will again be curtailed. But I inform you that under no circumstances will I fail to denounce the corruption and opacity of any institution of the State or that of the Bourbons. It is urgent, for reasons of democratic health, that this law be amended - a Francoist law of 1968, partially amended on 7 October 1978 at a pre-constitutional stage - for many reasons: the first, it is necessary to allow all parliamentarians of the Courts to have access to this information. All of us are democratically elected representatives, if we leave aside the deputies without being able to know these undefeated secrets, in practice what we are doing is to separate a large part of the citizenship from the institutions that, in theory, represent it. Politicians must be allowed to do politics. What is the point of a Committee of Official Secrets if its members are unable to make use of the information? Why is this Commission then set up? So you don't say you don't pass parliamentary control. But what kind of control can we do if when we go out the door of the Commission we have to hide that we have not seen or heard anything that happened inside? It's Kafkian. Thirdly, maximum dates should be set for the classification of information as official secrecy. If you look, we do not ask the Committee on Official Secrets to disappear, but we do say that we must have a maximum that will always guide our steps: transparency. In short, we have much, much work to do in transparency, in democracy, but our group is going to vote in favour of this measure because it is a yes to transparency, it is a yes to democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u37	Thank you, President. The preamble to the Law on Official Secrets that is proposed to be reformed today begins by saying: It is a general principle, even if it is not expressly stated in our Fundamental Laws, the publicity of the activity of the organs of the State... You have heard well, ladies and gentlemen, the framework to which this law refers is, no more or less, than the seven Fundamental Laws of the Franco regime. They will not deny me that it is strange, and I would say that it is very difficult to understand, that we are debating today, after forty years of democracy, an existing law which is a direct heir to the fascist regime and which also regulates something important: official secrets and reserved and classified subjects. They are a particularly sensitive and sensitive issue for a democratic State. This situation should give thought, especially to those political forces which have been sitting in this Chamber for a few years. The existence of this law in some sense evokes a country - let me - with a democracy that is frightened, complex and fearful. That is why it is so necessary and urgent to discard these kinds of rules, to expel them from our legal system and to move once and for all, in a definitive and irreversible way, towards this advanced democracy that proclaims the preamble to the Spanish Constitution of 78. I wish today the beginning of the end of this rule! The proposal brought here by the PNV, although a proposal for minimums, opens the debate on topical and urgent subjects and I would like to refer to one of them. First, it is essential to strike a balance between constitutionally protected rights and property, between public security and the defence of the State and the principle of publicity, transparency and the right to access to information. This balance is not simple, it needs fine spinning. It is necessary to articulate political and legal procedures that, while ensuring the security and defence of the State, promote the true transparency of democratic institutions. Kant already said in On Perpetual Peace that actions concerning the law of other men are unfair if their maximum does not admit publicity. Nor can we forget that the defence of the publicity of the actions of the public authorities has been part of the essential and basic core on which parliamentary democracy has always been based. In any case, we know that there are exceptions to this general rule in all countries in our environment. The difference, therefore, between one and the other countries is not in the acceptance of the existence of such official secrets but in the scope of the exception, in the competence of the procedure for classifying a matter as secret, in the possibility of revising that classification and, above all, in the control mechanisms both jurisdictional and parliamentary. Secondly, democratic memory and the defence of human rights. The possibility of classifying subjects as reserved and their discretion in declassification without time limits, as is now the case, is not admissible in a democratic State. Secret cannot be synonymous with impunity; that time does not serve as an excuse for oblivion and secrecy is not synonymous with impunity, because secrecy, ladies and gentlemen, can pose a real threat to democracy. No law on official secrets can hinder or prevent human rights violations by the State, public agencies and institutions from being investigated, known, tried and recognized for the reparation of victims. Truth, justice, memory, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition are principles proclaimed by the United Nations, but above all they are principles that we can assume as our own and carry in our DNA. Society, our people, has the right to know, the right to the truth. On the other hand, I would like to end by mentioning in this intervention the need to recover that democratic memory, the great importance that the construction of that memory has for a people, because in those archives that you cannot access or consult - do not forget, we do not forget - lives the memory of many parents, mothers, grandparents and grandmothers. So, let us support and facilitate the work of historians and historians to build that memory. From here, all our thanks to the memorialist associations that, with the great work they do, shed some light on that democratic memory and historical memory. Finally, I would like to ask a question. I would like to know whether anyone in this House can explain, for example, why the documents relating to the massacre of 3 March 1976 in Gasteiz cannot be known. In 2018, in the Basque Parliament, on the proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos, and supported by all political forces, except the People's Party, the government was asked to declassify the documents related to the March 3 massacre. The facts were as follows: at mid-afternoon on March 3, 1976, the Church of San Francisco de Assisi, located in a working-class neighborhood, was evicted; 4,000 workers on strike assembled in assembly, five people died and more than fifty were injured. The deceased were: Pedro María Martínez, 27 years old; Francisco Aznar, 17 years old; Romualdo Barroso, 39 years old; José Castillo García, 32 years old; Welcome Pereda, 30 years old; all, all workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the memory of our people requires respect and justice. We cannot be a truly democratic country until the words truth, justice and reparation of the victims of the dictatorship achieve an overwhelming consensus in this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u38	Mrs. Garrido, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u39	Yeah, I'm done. For dignity, let us never forget those who defended freedom and fought for the rights we enjoy today. Let us hope that, from today on, in a unanimous manner in this House, we will support that we are never again against discovering those shames; truth, justice, memory and reparation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Jerez Juan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again addressing the debate on taking account of the reform of the Official Secrets Act, convinced that transparency and the right of access to information are two essential principles on which better and more mature democracies are consolidated. And we are going back to this debate without resigning ourselves to accepting a partial reform of the 1968 Law limited only to certain precepts; we would be wasting a great opportunity fifty-two years later. The text they re-edit is the same as we were proposed in 2016. Four years later, nothing indicates that you have evolved in the proposal you proposed four years earlier. It has been too long since then for us not to have put forward a more developed proposal in this House, in the light of the positions put forward in that debate and, above all, in the light of the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups. Four years ago Mr Legarda began his speech by saying that the keys to the reform were to set maximum deadlines for the maintenance of secrecy; that everything else was accessory and negotiable; an unambitious, insufficient and conformist attitude to consider everything that was not included in his proposal to be circumstantial and, moreover, secondary. Look, Mr Esteban, your proposal will be in essence suitable for our democracy, and I do not deny it - it is true - but incomplete if what is at stake is to bring us up to the level of the most democratically evolved countries. Nothing is proposed about the processing of classified information from other countries, nothing about the principle of reciprocity, nothing about the handling of classified information in the era of new technologies and nothing about ordering the archives of hundreds of thousands of classified documents, which are widely stored in public buildings without an appropriate organizational procedure. Therefore, what I come to tell you is that in the reform that you are proposing you miss so many things. Today - fifty-two years later - we find ourselves in a world where international cooperation is more intense. This makes it necessary to protect classified information received from other countries on the basis of bilateral agreements. At present - fifty-two years later - it is also necessary to have an administrative structure for the protection of information that does not guarantee it only in the internal sphere of public administrations, but also protects our industrial interests and our most strategic commercial interests. Therefore, if we have waited half a century to get here, now is the time to do things right and not stay halfway. We are prepared to address a reform, yes, an integral, but at the same time mature reform; a thought-provoked reform that will lead us to meet the demands of history and historians, the needs of research and researchers, the needs and demands of academics and university; in short, the demands of democracy and also of democrats. For this reason, we must complete the best law so that the truth is known to all and have a more accurate account of our historical sequence. We agree that in an advanced society classified information must have its own freedom, of course, but as long as it does not compromise and endanger the freedom of all democrats, and that is precisely where the nuclear issue of this debate resides. In this sense, you continue to rely absolutely entirely on automatic declassification, the mere course of time, as if the passage of days were reason enough to undress and expose any question of State, even at the least timely of all. The fight against terrorism is a matter of state - of course it is -; the fight against criminal organizations is a matter of state; strategic national defence sites are questions of state; the national catalogue of critical infrastructures is a matter of state. The declassification of all this information deserves a careful prior review in order not to end up compromising our interests and those of our compatriots. We share that the passage of time must be a reason for declassifying information - of course it is - but not the only reason. In all cases there must be a motivation for the matter and not just for the timetable. That is why, and in this debate, we are going to propose a declassification of the information by reason of a maximum time limits for classification, but we are also going to propose the possibility of extending that time limit - and you will understand this - when the circumstances that gave rise to the classification of the information are maintained and the extension is essential for the preservation of the interests of Spain and the integrity of the people. In this regard, they will allow me to reproduce a few words from a former State Security Officer included in a report published in El País a few weeks or months ago. He said: We must have special deadlines for certain cases, such as the fight against terrorism. You can't give the names of the confidants even if it's been 50 years because you can still shoot them. There must be a system of extensions for ETA, jihadism or mafia, even for certain diplomatic matters. In this same line, and for lovers and lovers of comparative law, it is worth recalling the ruling of the Columbia Federal Court of Appeal as a result of the request to declassify the photographs of the body of the Al Qaeda leader shot down by the American commanders in Pakistan. The verdict made this clear when it said that the CIA had properly retained the photographs and that their revelation could expose the methods used by this agency and, in addition, feelings of hatred could be unleashed against American citizens living abroad. It is true that the establishment of a transitional period for the automatic declassification of documents is the system chosen by the vast majority of developed countries, but it is false that automatic declassification operates without sieves or pre-declassification revision systems. Many countries and many international organizations in our environment have legal provisions that regulate declassification, that is, with the exclusions of rigor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u42	Mr. Jerez, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u43	I'm finishing up, Madam President. And I agree that in those mirrors we also have to look to adapt to logical evolution, but I warn you that none of these countries or international organizations use the automatic declassification procedure, as you intend to regulate here. Mr Esteban - and I finish - we did not come to this debate to repair anything, to amend anything; we came to propose the repeal of a law of the last century to adopt a law of the twenty-first century. While you intend to amend a law of the Old Regime, we intend to put into practice a new regime of classification, declassification, access and management of classified information and international protection of information, and I hope and trust that we will find ourselves on that path. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u44	Thank you, Mr. Jerez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Fernández Benéitez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Party will once again support this bill put forward by the PNV, first of all, because we are a party of our word. As you will recall, we have already supported this initiative on other occasions in past legislatures and, in addition, it has been among our commitments to update the law to which it refers. This is because, as I say, we are a parliamentary group of clear commitments, a serious group and a firm group with those causes that we consider necessary, come from the hand of those who come. Without a doubt, this debate requires an exquisite thoroughness and the proposed law that we are debating today contains very interesting elements for reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Law on Official Secrets is pre-constitutional, so much so that in its preamble it refers to the Fundamental Laws and is full of anachronisms that hinder their interpretation today. While it is true that it has been retouched for its updating, it remains a poorly operational law for the moment; a time when, in addition, the exchange of information and its treatment represent an absolutely new scenario based above all on the digital environment. However, it is fair to thank the Ministry of Defence for its efforts to enable public access to a multitude of documents, even if they are classified. As you know, during this period two resolutions have been issued by the minister in this regard, thus showing the firm commitment of this government to the transparency and publicity of our history. In addition, account should be taken of the existence of certain issues that might be problematic when amending and implementing them in general, for example with regard to information classified at the international level or data whose need for protection exceeds the declassification deadlines set by the initiative. These and some other issues will need to be further analysed in the legislative process in order not to empty the contents of the Official Secrets Act itself. Having said that, we understand that transparency and access to information are some of the most important elements that must lead to a consolidated democracy. After more than 40 years of stability and freedom, this Parliament is under an obligation to provide citizens with laws consistent with the current democratic maturity. Obviously, we must be able to combine these advances with the security and defence of the State, which, as you all know, are constitutional values. Ladies and gentlemen, every country has a law of official secrets because logically every state has subjects that are of reserved knowledge. The maturity of democracy here lies in our ability to maintain a state policy without prejudice to transparency in the present and historical rigour in the future. By contextualizing and given some of the interventions we have heard, we are in a country, Spain, which is at the top of the rankings that study the levels of democracy. We are one of the so-called full democracies and of course it is worrying to see how some want to undermine this prestige won by the institutions, by the political parties and above all by civil society. [[Applauds]] Flaco favor do Spain those from Arribist interests come to attack the State in order to try to weaken a legitimate government. Spain has a young democracy, this is true, but youth does not mean weakness, but vitality. Our freedom has been consolidated thanks to the good doing of our institutions, the progress in the conquest of social rights and the push of the citizenry, which has always shown without hesitation its democratic will. It is our society that mostly marginalizes ultras and intolerant totalitarian behaviors and it is our country that displaces those who hide their political incapacity in extremist positions. We have a lot to be very proud of. I would like to say to Mr Fernández-Roca, by the way, that perhaps you do not know that the former president who has decided to reproach was the precursor of the UME, a military unit that you later mentioned with great pride and bravery. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, state security and defence require an up-to-date, rigorous and guaranteed law. It does not seem justifiable that even today there are classified documents from eighty years ago that could compromise the state's support in our current context. The demands of a mature society force us to minimize the spaces of opacity, and this is illustrated by comparative law. Most European countries have declassification deadlines. State secrecy cannot be an unlimited space of power, it must be a tool of real protection, assessed and functioning adapted to the current reality. More than a rule on state secrets, we must aspire to an information classification law. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to uphold a law that has been used as a pretext to prevent access to a multitude of classified documents dating back to the blackest time in this country, the Spanish civil war, because while it is true that we can congratulate ourselves on everything we have achieved as democrats, it is fair to remember that our progress has been built on the lives of thousands of compatriots who believed in freedom when there was only fear in this country and, to deceive hunger, onion. [[Applauds]] We owe it to him, because justice, memory and reparation go hand in hand with the investigative capacity we have over the past. I would like to express my appreciation here for the enormous declassification work being done by the Ministry of Defence in relation to this matter, which I have just mentioned. I'm done. When I started my career as a parliamentarian, a fellow member of the socialist bench told me a phrase that might be familiar to some of you, and that is that the centre is not an ideology, it is a way of dealing with politics. It seems to me to be a certain statement on which I ask some of you to reflect. Perhaps it is this law, which regulates a purely State issue, which is a good pretext for raising the debate in this House in the future, for you to approach dialogue and for you to practice consensus with us. Of course, the parliamentary majority in this House should take a step forward and take on this challenge that is before us today. I end with a piece of advice for your ladies and gentlemen from VOX: do not embrace Spain so much that you drown it. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE PLURAL, EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, SOCIALIST AND REPUBLICAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, ON BABY ROBED IN THE SPANISH STATE. [[File number 122/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u47	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Groups, Euskal Herria Bildu, Socialist and Republican, on stolen babies in the Spanish State. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Hurtado Zurera spoke by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u48	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like my first words to be of appreciation, admiration, encouragement and hope to the thousands of people who are watching us, who have been fighting against oblivion and silence for many years, who are the real victims of the abduction and theft of babies in the Spanish State. They can't be here with us today, but from here I guarantee you and all of you that we have a lot of time. It has been your effort, your tenacity, and also your suffering that has made it necessary for this Congress of Deputies to debate this proposal for a law of which you and you are authors. Therefore, go ahead with those words of gratitude, admiration, encouragement and above all hope towards all of you. [[Applauds]] The problem always has to be dimensioned, not with estimates - I do not like to make estimates - but with the use of official data, with the only one that I have found: a court order of the National Court that figures until 1952 in 30000 the children stolen in this country. [[Shows a sign reading: 30,000 stolen babies]] We all know that if this is until 1952, it corresponds to the theft of Republican women in this country; from 1952 until the beginning of Spanish democracy continued with impunity and the crime of the theft of babies in Spain. Therefore, this figure is a reference that the problem exists - because some consider that the problem does not exist?; the problem, drama and suffering have existed and continue to exist, and this is a reference number exclusively. It could be multiplied by up to ten, but it is not up to me or the Socialist Group to give information on this figure or to quantify it in terms of its size. Ladies and gentlemen, in November 2018 this House debated this very bill. We are totally satisfied with that debate, because there was unanimity in this House. All the political forces of the left, right, centre, nationalists, non-nationalists, we all gave the yes to the consideration of this legislative proposal; a total success that made us see that the road was very paved and that we were going to achieve it in a short time. What happened happened, elections had to be called, and today we are in another legislature. Well, that unanimity has broken, unfortunately. I think it is a very important thing, and it has been broken by the far right of this country, which has asked for the vote against, which, of course, means that it will vote against this proposal for a law. A right-wing negator like Trump, Bolsonaro, Boris Johnson. What references you have, ladies and gentlemen! An ultra-right that denies scientists, that denies climate change, that denies historians, that denies stolen babies. An ultra-right that denies, because it is dedicated to whitening Francoism, the most sordid stage we have ever lived. To whiten Francoism they deny persecution, repression for political reasons, for ideological reasons, for gender reasons that took place during Francoism since the Civil War; and even impunity, as I said before, continued during the early years of democracy. An ultra-right that by denying, denies - and we are in a very pointed week, that of the collective LGTBI, that of the Pride - the repression of homosexuals in this country. For them we faggots then live in a paradise, in an IKEA paradise, full of closets with locked locks, which is what meant that sordid stage for us of lack of freedom. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: The question!]] So I ask Mr Abascal never to defend homosexuals in this House again; here we are homosexuals to defend us. [[Applauds]] We know how to defend ourselves and, moreover, with reasons of force and force. On the other hand, an ultra-right that in turn listens deafly to the international bodies that are requiring us to act, like the United Nations, like the European Parliament or Spanish institutions like the Spanish Ombudsman himself. They all ask us, they demand us, to intervene against oblivion, against silence. And the far right also denies it; it denies that demand of international bodies fighting for peace and justice in the world. Well, the socialists have signed this proposal, just like we did before, because we know there were baby thefts, because babies were stolen. And because babies were stolen, we're in favour of it being investigated, of knowing the truth. Are you afraid of the truth? Are you afraid that it will be discovered who the perpetrators of this crime might be? We don't, we want to be investigated. On the other hand, because we know that babies were stolen, we want justice to be done and that the burden of justice falls on individuals or suspected criminals and that, of course, the law is applied to them as it should be applied. Nobody here is unpunished, everyone who does it has to pay and even more crimes like the ones we're talking about. Obviously, because there were baby thefts the socialists consider that the victims must be repaired, they must be morally repaired and, to the extent possible, their right to the entity. You have to get them to find their parents, their mothers, their children, their daughters. And because there were stolen babies in this country, we are in favour of establishing the rule that prevents this from happening again. This can never happen again. This proposed law includes a new regulatory and legal framework, where crimes against humanity are classified as crimes against these crimes, so that they do not prescribe as the statute of limitations is currently being used. We therefore believe that victims and, as such, their rights need to be recognized. We believe that there is a need for justice and judicial protection in order for the victims to be able to defend themselves, the vast majority of very vulnerable families that came from poverty, which in many cases were single mothers. I want to pay tribute to those single mothers who suffered so much during the Francoism. Well, we think that there needs to be a judicial guardianship and there needs to be forced subjects - and this may bother the right-wing a little bit - and the forced subjects are those who have to open the archives, who have to open the boxes where the perpetrators figure and how they carried it out. That rule was fundamental, that new normative framework was fundamental. It incorporates a number of tools, such as a DNA database, a specialized prosecutor's office, a judicial police attached to this prosecutor's office and funding exhumations. By the way, we are in such a Kafkian situation that by opening the coffins of the babies that were stolen, which appear in tombs theoretically, there was nothing or, if there was anything, of course after the DNA tests it has been known that they were not the people identified. Therefore, it is necessary that DNA database, those exhumations. A state commission on the right to identity is necessary...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u49	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u50	I'm done. In short, the tools needed to develop the new regulatory framework. I end by thanking the authors - and the authors are all the stolen children, who are also my children - and Soledad Luque - its president - to the State Coordinator of Support for the Argentine Querella, to the international and national NGOs that have supported him as Amnesty International or Pro Human Rights Spain, to all the associations that exist throughout the Spanish territory of victims of this theft of babies. I want to send that message of thanks and assure you that in this legislature we will definitely approve it because it is necessary to guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u51	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u52	I'm done. The right to truth, the right to identity and the right to reparation must be guaranteed. And that's what we're going to get with the approval and implementation of this law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u53	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u54	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. My parents bought me, paid more for me than for one floor, 150,000 pesetas. A priest made a choice between a child or a child. They took my daughter away because she was a single mother, told me that the girl had died and they did not let me see her; now I know that she is alive, that she lives in Valencia and that she is fifty-one years old. When we opened the niche where my daughter should be, there was cotton and a box of stones. For three days they were telling us, they were teaching us a girl in the incubator that I knew she was not my daughter; in the end they told us that she had died. Then a doctor was like a god, I never imagined they were stealing my child. Stolen kids don't die in an incubator, we're alive and we're thousands. When I was five, they told me that they had adopted me, the twelve that had stolen me, and now with fifty-four I'm still looking for my mother. I was not sold, I had been sick; the buyers wanted healthy, healthy, white, white, handsome, beautiful boys and girls. That's what saved me, not my sister. Two books were taken to the hospital offices: one for official income data, the other with new parents' data; all that disappeared. When you entered motherhood you were given another baptismal game and you were resubscribed; the stolen children have two baptismal games, that's the key. I'm a stolen girl and now I know that they left a orphaned woman as a daughter, who carried a penalty for her entire life. We have come out of the closet of shame, to compare you to those who are not your parents and to see other eyes, other hands and other gestures. I don't want to die without telling my son that I didn't give him, that he was stolen, and I won't stop until I get it. I gave birth to twins, I slept; when I woke up, the nurse told me that I had only one child; I did not comply, they told me that they could take the other, they have stolen forty years of life from us. I'm older, and I don't know if my mother is alive or dead anymore, and I probably never know, but I won't stop until others find their families. These are testimonies, there are up to 300,000; for sixty years, for sixty years. In this country, almost until the early 1990s there were more thefts than adoptions. A whole network of hospitals, church, franchising institutions and not so franchising, which they simply gave, to whom they could pay, the children they asked for. From 50,000 pesetas to 1 million per stolen baby, a state crime against humanity, and it doesn't say Republican Left, says the UN. Here's the shame we have to endure. There's nothing worse in this life than losing a child, but if we had to define something worse than that would be losing it and it was a lie, that it was stolen from you. Please, please, please, let us leave here today for a while, for a while!, for a few minutes, our partisan miseries, our ideological differences and vote in favour of this, to dignify the memory of so many people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u55	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Among the crimes against humanity committed by Franco's dictatorship is the theft of babies; at first, and promoted by Franco's institutions openly, without concealment, depriving mothers accused of republicans of their sons and daughters so as to re-educate them, in an attempt to justify such heinous practice in the advisability of avoiding the survival of certain ideologies. Read about democratic ideologies. Later, but also with the knowledge of State institutions and for the personal benefit of their positions and authorities, mothers, especially those of popular classes, with few resources or large families, were deprived of their babies and were made to believe that they had died. The most surprising thing is that this practice of stealing babies would continue after the so-called democratic transition, now with the added factor of economic motivation. We are faced with a repugnant fact, which confirms the persistence in the current regime of 1978 of elements of the Franco dictatorship. It is the consequence that there has not been a democratic break with the Franco regime, but a pact with the last managers of the dictatorship, which is at the basis of the poor democratic quality of the current political regime, because it cannot be understood otherwise that until the 1990s there continued to be theft of babies. This law, in addition to criminalizing this practice against humanity, will guarantee a number of rights to victims and their families, the right to be able to discover the truth about their past, allowing access to all kinds of documents that facilitate this investigation, the right to have judicial protection, guaranteeing investigation from the Office of the Prosecutor and avoiding the obstacles that hinder these processes today, and the right to be able to obtain redress, rectifying records, identifying those responsible and facilitating access to services, in addition to the creation of a DNA base that will facilitate the discovery of the truth and the necessary - very necessary - family reunions. Knowing personal history, knowing what happened to each of these babies must be a right of the victims themselves and their families, but also putting an end to impunity in this area, as in others, is an urgent matter. For this reason, we greatly appreciate the social initiative that is at the root of this law, to which the BNG joins as a political force, for, as the promoters organizations grouped in Ceaqua have said, too late a justice would cease to be justice and here we are to do justice and rescue the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u58	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen in general and ladies and gentlemen of the extreme right in particular. Let's talk about families today. Let's talk about families and talk about the worst crime that can be committed against a family, which is stealing their children, violating their right to identity and stealing their right to a family life. So let's talk about something I think they need to be moved by: the family. This horrible crime of stealing babies from their families was committed by Francoism, ladies and gentlemen. First, by pure repression, by throwing at the mothers, those whom he called prostitutes and those who took away his most precious good for what was the word?Is that what you're talking about? to indoctrinate and convert them. Then, in the second phase, by moral, ethical, religious and gender repression or by business. For all these issues, but also for business; in addition, in this second part, focusing on the most vulnerable sectors and on the most disadvantaged women. Doesn't that impunity and action against families, against mothers, for the theft of their children and their daughters, to eliminate any possibility of the right to a family life? I should. The State for years despised the allegations, was absent and, worst of all, treated women - mainly women - who complained. Despite this, women and organized groups partnered, fought and were tireless in the search for truth, justice and reparation. That's why today, ladies and gentlemen, this is your law. It is the law of the collectives, of so many people, of so many women and of so many associations that have fought as no one to do justice in this country. It is your law and, therefore, we can only tell you that there are political groups - I hope most of this House - that they are sensitive to this injustice and this tremendous historical tragedy, that there are institutions committed to their demands, that we will never again look elsewhere, that they were right, that crimes of that nature do not prescribe and that we want to apologize for being late. Actually, this law has already been passed and was unanimously adopted. In More Country-Equo we want to see the law already in the Official State Gazette. We find it terrible that it is not adopted unanimously, but, on the other hand, we must get used to the fact that alliances in defence of the great rights of this country will have to make those who believe deeply in democracy and isolate those who question democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, let the law be made, that all the women to whom the most precious has been taken, that all the people to whom their lives have been taken...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u59	Mrs. Sabanes, you should finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u60	I'm done. ... and their family, social and cultural belonging to their home, and to whom their identity was ultimately taken away, see their desire for justice and reparation fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect. I have a minute alone, but the truth is that after the brilliant and emotional exhibition of Congressman Antonio Hurtado little more has to be added. I just want to make three brief notes. First, to say that the National Court's car to which he referred in November 2008, when he quotes the estimate of 30,000 missing or stolen babies, he does so with very conservative calculations, surely there are many more. I would like to recall that in 2014 the United Nations Special Rapporteur urged Spain to comply with the International Convention for the Full Protection of Persons who have Forced to Miss, and I understand that it is a shame that today, in 2020, forty-two years after the adoption of the Constitution, let us continue to talk about this issue, which is still pending. Mrs Sabanes said that she hoped that this would be approved unanimously, and I think that is even more; I find it difficult to understand it, because it is not data with which we say red, separatist and I don't know what, but it is data from the National Court that say that there are at least 30,000 stolen babies; that is why this law should not be adopted unanimously, but by assent, with great applause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u64	Sweep on, good afternoon. It is fair to acknowledge the State Coordinator of Support for the Argentine Querella, Ceaqua, and specifically the associations that have been working on this bill. It's them, the victims, the real protagonists, and right now they have to be watching us on television. All these victims, all the victims deserve truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, all, without exception, those of Francoism and those after that black period of history. It is time for both the Government and this Parliament to live up to the law in this legislature. We owe it to those daughters and children who were stolen, but especially to their mothers, their families. We owe reparation to those who have suffered the tragedy of being snatched illegally and cruelly, we owe them not only social recognition, but help and support. We owe it to them for these years of suffering, of searching, without having obtained help, because many times what they have achieved have been obstacles. Amaya, a woman from the Basque Country, told us one of her last experiences. He went to court to try to get a birth certificate from his birth mother and they threw his identity card at him, saying, you're an adopted one. That woman also told us: my story has been built on the basis of lies. Even she had to lie because she was ashamed to confess that it wasn't really her adoptive mother's. My story has been built on the lies of a priest, a nun, a doctor and a civilian guard, who was the one who took my false birth certificate to court. And a little detail; when we're talking about 30,000 babies to try to quantify the number of stolen babies, in the Basque Country we haven't been able to quantify them. In the Basque Country, a women's prison complex was established in 1939, which was carried out by a number of women from the Spanish State. They were the prisons of Saturn, Amorebieta and Durango. The average occupancy in each of these centres was almost 1,000 women, and no creature born in those prisons was registered, never entered in the register, in no court register or in the book of that prison, only once they left the centre. There were countless boys and girls who left those centers and were awarded to families not only from the prison environment, but who were brought to Madrid, Catalonia and other centers, the most normal thing is that they changed provinces. It is also urgent, on the other hand, to give a guarantee of the preservation of the archives. Key files and documentation are disappearing. For example, I can say that several legacies before 1975 have disappeared in the City Hall of Donosti. It is extremely urgent that all information be kept and that this law be put into effect; and that it be made available not only to families and individuals, but that all such archives be kept and guaranteed, some of which may, in fact, correspond to hospitals and religious institutions, but also to the public administration itself. That is why he set the example of the prisons in the Basque Country, which were political abductions. The idea that the degeneration of the race must be avoided was being promoted at that time, and reproduction must be avoided in future generations of impure and dangerous people. But these practices then took on another form, as you have already mentioned, and have been prolonging, although what has not changed has never been the type of victim: women in fragile situations, their children and their daughters; nor has impunity changed. Therefore, this law that is demanded of us from society is necessary to help guarantee the right to rescue the identity, to help clarify the cases, and especially in the most recent stages to guarantee the right to information and, as I said, the custody of the archives and, ultimately, to give us a comprehensive and restorative perspective with the rank of law that allows us this work. For this reason, our group has endorsed the presentation of this project and we would like once again to thank you for your efforts and dedication to all those people and groups who have worked on its elaboration. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I have the floor on behalf of that group, Mrs De Meer Méndez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wish you all well in health, in particular Mrs Sabanes, since she has greeted me in particular. The first thing I would like to do, with the permission of the Presidency, is to remind all those who have left us in these terrible circumstances. They're gonna let me because it's my first intervention since the pandemic. I've lost one of those thousands and for me the pain has that face and the memory too. But I want to send my love to all those who have not been able to say goodbye, to all those who have not been able to give their hand to their loved one, to all those who have not been able to watch and bury their relatives, to all those who have not been able to say goodbye with a small prayer, to all those who cannot go anywhere to leave flowers, and to all the sympathy hugs that have not been given in these difficult days. My love and my comfort, even if you don't think like me. Going to the subject before us, we have before us a proposal for a law presented by the Bildu Parliamentary Group and its partners, and the first thing that comes to my mind is that the lords of Bildu, with all my respect, have not sworn our laws and now come to propose in this House laws for the whole of Spanish society. What a hypocrisy, isn't it? But it is not just that, but we hope that the Constitutional Court will soon resolve this anomaly. VOX is always with justice, of which there is no doubt. He's with the truth and the victims. There are matches that are the Otegi matches and we are the Ortega Lara match, of course. [[Applauds]] We're always with the victims. And I want to make it very clear that VOX is against trafficking in minors, that it is against trafficking in human beings and that it is against crimes against humanity. Don't be fooled, it doesn't lead you any way. VOX is against, without ambiguity or half inks, anyone who takes a baby out of his arms. There is trafficking in minors at all times, practically, and right now too. You should also be concerned about and against the trafficking of minors that is being waged at the moment. All our love and comfort to all the mothers of Ukrainian farms who are also taken from their children as soon as they are born. I'm going to listen to a small part of your bill. In Article 1.2(a), you affirm that one of the guiding principles of your law will be the search for truth. That will be the guiding principle of my intervention, seeking the truth, exclusively. And there's really nothing here. There is nothing true about what you propose. They want to sit, as always, in the story on the bench, and they don't care about babies, they just care about using them, just like they don't care about our elders, who have been dying in the residences. You rewrite history, you approve your version of history in this Parliament, and that has to be dogma of faith for the Spanish? What about the historians for? In VOX we think that historians have to write the story, that they must be left free to investigate and write the story, each with its own version, and this debate must be respected. Therefore, we do not want your dogmas of faith on supposed events that you want to impose on the Spaniards in a coup. The reality is that you don't know and despise our history. They do not want historians to be free to investigate, because they need to live by their own ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to make a chronicle of the facts and we are going to give data, because the representative of the Socialist Party has said that he liked the data, and yet he has given us only one. This campaign promotes Baltasar Garzón. As you know a lot of Spaniards, you want to sit down on the bench, because you can't live without the franchise, ladies and gentlemen. Garzón could not sit Francoism on the bench because it was prevented by the Amnesty Law, and he needed to justify a crime against humanity - it comes from Argentina and, therefore, it has been good for them -. In addition, it is a propaganda campaign flagged by El País and followed by all his colleagues in the newspaper Public, etc. Even the newspaper El País itself opened a portal of complaints; that is, the eventual victims did not go to the courthouse, but to the portal of complaints of the newspaper El País. Mr Rego, don't thank the associations, please El País and the public newspaper, because it has been a very clear propaganda campaign. Among the data we are going to use, I will start with the numbers, which are very diverse. At first some said it was twenty thousand. Then, there is a car that says there are thirty thousand and, therefore, that is also dogma of faith. For Mr. Rufian it's three hundred thousand. For Bildu they are countless. What are we left with? There are also people who come to say that it was a million. Let us go down to earth, ladies and gentlemen, and apply that search for the truth in your own bill, but frankly. The reality is that there are only two thousand complaints, of which, admitted to court, there are only 552; a single sentence denied by scientific and genetic evidence, that is the reality. The reality is that there is nothing here, ladies and gentlemen; that you want to impose on us a sectarian version of history, so that it is dogma of faith and we all have to believe it in a compulsory way. The reality is this, that genetic tests deny it. Do we deny scientists or are you? There is only one case, that of Inés Madrigal, which even she later denied, saying that it had been given for adoption by her biological mother. Ladies and gentlemen, there was trafficking in children, but there was trafficking in children as there is today trafficking in children in the world. The trafficking of children exists, and we must fight and fight against it with all our strength and not dedicate ourselves to these things and these rereadings of history. Ladies and gentlemen, trafficking in babies must be combated, not ideologized; that is what needs to be done with trafficking in babies. Of course we care about those babies, but, you do them a weak favor with your policies! In addition, there is a demolition report, which is the technical report of the National Institute of Toxicology; the report of the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences of 2017 ruled out the existence of a plot, after carrying out 120 exhumations at the request of the justice system. Ladies and gentlemen, the report of the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences! Do we deny science? Are we really denying it ourselves or are you the ones denying science? The biologist, moreover, in charge of that report, Antonio Alonso, stated that there was no theft of babies. In addition, the Basque Country carried out an investigation; two commissions of inquiry with judges, forensics and prosecutors and, in the words of Juan Calparsoro, superior prosecutor of the Basque Country, in none of the proceedings initiated in Euskadi has been able to prove the existence of the crime, that is, the abduction of the newborn, not even - not even - with reasonable indications. Ladies and gentlemen, the superior prosecutor of the Basque Country, after two commissions of inquiry with forensics, prosecutors and judges! But, the Attorney General, Torres-Dulce, also claims that there was never any organized plot aimed at the abduction and sale of babies. Does the Socialist Party spokesman now like the data? In addition, the Ertzaintza set up a special group dedicated exclusively to the matter. So, what was the result? Nothing; none. Of the 120 exhumations that were made, 117 had remnants compatible with newborns. DNA could not be obtained from all because of lack of conservation; only the genetic profile of 90 was obtained, of which the remains of 81 were compatible with the denunciators they had reported; that is, they had not been stolen. Ladies and gentlemen, for babies to be stolen, the white coffins had to be empty, and they were not empty. However, this is the perfect horror film for Bildu and his partners; a huge organized plot, in which the children were taken away from the Republicans and socialists to give them to the families of the regime; a plot of facades, priests, nuns, very tempting for the left - I understand it is tempting - that Franco was dedicated to stealing children from the Republicans and selling them. Did they think that a lie like that could fit in? Really? [[Applauds]] Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen - as I say - the trafficking of children existed, existed and exists, and we must fight against it, but no children were stolen in any plot by any regime. And you're also playing with all those families. Do you know how many families have had to face an exhumation in which, as the National Institute of Toxicology itself says, there was no baby stolen because the grave was full? Do you know how much pain this whole propaganda plot has removed from so many families? Let's talk about kids, but let's talk about really stolen kids. On 11 December 1987, the terrorist group ETA exploded a car bomb with 250 kilos of masonry parked next to the headquarters of the Civil Guard, causing 11 deaths, 88 injuries, most of them civilians. Two 3-year-old babies died that day: Miriam and Esther. [[Show a picture]] These are stolen babies, these are the babies that the terrorist band ETA has stolen from their families, and has also stolen their lives, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Mr. de Bildu is shocked to be thrown at a woman in a court of law - indeed I am, too, because it would be very rude - and yet do not Mr. de Bildu be shocked by the more than twenty children executed by the terrorist gang ETA, who stole them from their families? The more than twenty children ETA stole their lives from?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u67	Mrs. De Meer, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u68	Thank you, Madam President, I'll be done soon. We have Bildu presenting a proposal for a law on stolen babies, and I wonder, will Bildu condemn the issue of babies that the terrorist band ETA stole from their families? Are you going to condemn Bildu on the issue of the babies the ETA terrorist gang stole life from? I don't need a bill, I really need an institutional statement at any press conference. Ladies and gentlemen, article 1 of your bill states that it is aimed at the right to truth, justice and reparation. Where is that article 1 for Miriam and Esther?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u69	Mrs. De Meer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u70	I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in VOX we really want the search for the truth, but I doubt you want it, and be very careful, because those who seek the truth run the risk of finding it. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u71	Thank you, Mrs. De Meer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u72	Thank you, President. The spokesman confirms that negationism to which I referred. Hey, have you heard who the author of this bill is? I don't think you've heard. He will not have read it, surely, he does not care; you are interested in the stolen children I do not know from where or from whom. [[Applauds]] You haven't read the bill. The authorship of the bill is not Bildu's, nor is it PSOE's, nor is it the other political groups that have signed the bill. Let's see if you find out, because it gives me the impression that you're in another world, that you're nothing but a thug, you're hitting, you're hitting, you're hitting, you're hitting, you're hitting, you're hitting, you're not making sense and you're not ordering anything. I'll make you a request. To you, who are of these ultra-Catholics, I am going to ask for a little humanity against those who have suffered so much and so much; humanity nothing more, it is a matter as simple and as simple as that. [[Applauds]] You, who are so ultra-Catholic, what do you think Jesus Christ would say about the theft of babies? Do you think I'd agree with your position, hypocrite by the way? That's what I'm asking, humanity. And they say that you are worried about stolen babies, that you are worried about violence against women, but I conclude that nothing needs to be done, that you follow violence and that you follow stolen babies, because, Mrs. Spokesman, what are we doing here, what are we doing here? If you are concerned, you would have to worry about the solution; we are here to solve the problems. So don't tell me that VOX is worried about violence against women, it's about stolen babies. Give us a hand, work a little, we're all charging; let's dedicate ourselves to what brings us here, to work and to give solutions. I don't know if I'm wrong, but - with all humility - I think I know the real reasons why you have that position: one of them is that the Church was a participant. [[Applauds]] That hurts a lot, doesn't it? Listen, if the Church was involved - that's what a judge has to say, not me - I think it hurts a lot, because nuns, priests have come out of everything. And they have not come out like those who steal, the children of the workers, many people have come out of the Church in the newspapers. But it is that, moreover, you know, and that is why you are in that position, that the Church has obstructed giving the information, that much of this information, of that truth with which our mouth is filled, had it the Church and the Church did not want, has closed the file. Now you will have to open it and you will have three months for any requirement made to you. And I'm going to give you a third - I'm telling you humbly because maybe I'm wrong - that obsession with communism and the red gene. I believe that yours is obsession; with all humility, it reminds me of a Jurassic park, seeing the past. It is that we are in a very different Spain, that what remains of communism is the best of communism; what remains of everything is the best of everything. Obviously, it is not what you see, that you are looking at the most horrific past and past, which is the Francoist past. Another request, and now I'm shutting up. You, who are so humanitarian, so ultra-Catholic, don't be so hard on the weak, so strong on them; strong on the weak and weak on the strong. Don't be you, you are. To the weak, hard hand, as franchising did; to the strong, pleading; that is your ideology, your way of thinking. And I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health for the information system they are developing and for assisting the victims. Twenty-one family members are already identified. Do you want another piece of information?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u73	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u74	I'm done. There are already more than 2100 cases opened and more than 536 judicial cases, thanks, of course, to the efforts being made by the Ministry of Justice with the rest of the ministries and with the Attorney General's Office, but they need more tools, they need a new rule, and that is what we are bringing here today, and it will go out despite who weighs it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u75	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u76	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. De Meer, I don't know... I've saved myself seeing the fourth season of The Servant's Story listening to you, more than anything because you failed to justify the issue of child theft. You call it an invention of the radical socialcommunist left - I am proud to call myself a socialcommunist, especially if socialcommunist is that you like people to eat, so I declare myself a socialcommunist - you have called it a invention of ours and a plot of facades, right? You always have to listen to experts when they talk about these things. And, at the same time, he says that there is nothing: the truth is that there is nothing. But, he says, there's always been a baby deal, there's always been a baby deal. But there is nothing, everything is an invention; you - he says - live in ideology. Sure, and you live in formole, don't you? You don't have ideology, you don't talk based on what you think, you don't talk based on your ideas. I understand that this is complicated for you because we are asking the heirs of that plot to condemn it. I understand perfectly well that it is very hard for you and that it also takes you another sixty years to denounce it. I'm going to pass from the ETA wild that you've used, you don't have a rating, but I am going to look at something you said, that we want to sit franchise on a bench. Yeah, I want to sit a murderous fascist regime on a bench. [[Applauds]] Yes, and I wish it would, I wish in this country you would stop dying fascist torturers with medals on and the left looking the other way, because if the left in this country were a little braver you might not be more than fifty here, you would be much less. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u77	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u78	No one has invented the existence of stolen babies. No one's ever invented sons and daughters looking for their birth mothers. No one's made up our mothers looking for their biological children. And there have been mothers who have met their children, and sons and daughters who have met their mothers. They've had to do it at the expense of everything. What we're proposing here is to make it easier for thousands more of sons and daughters to know who their mothers, their biological parents, were, to decide what to do once they know the reality. Who wants to deny that happens? What can be, I was wondering, the sense of refusing to facilitate and create those paths? Someone who wants to close those paths has to be someone who feels guilty somehow of an ideology and an inheritance; an ideology and an inheritance that they thought they were doing well doing that, that entered into their ideology and their existence, there is the drama: the existence of an ideology, of a feeling that they considered that that was correct. That's what this law comes up with. Hence our tribute to all the associations that have proposed that we present this. Out of respect for those associations, out of respect for those victims, with regard to the accusations they have made to our group, I will only tell you one thing: our group, our Basque people, is making a journey, a path for the truth, for justice, for reparation and for guarantees of non-repetition. Are you guys doing it?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u79	Thank you, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very clear. Does VOX deny that babies are stolen? Does VOX deny trafficking in children? No, no, Does it deny that it was an organized plot, the creator of a crime against humanity, as Garzón and the associations claim? Yeah, that's a big lie. I have proved it to you, ladies and gentlemen; you have given me not a single given; not a single given. You liked the data so much and your only data is a figure that you all disagree with. I don't know, Your Honor, how you can be ultra-Catholic. I know Catholic people and people who are not Catholic. However, do you mind the religion that any of the members of VOX may have? Are you going to discriminate against us because we have or don't have a religion? I'm saying that for the record. He says we don't bring any solutions. Yes, the solution is to stop making dogmas of faith about history in Congress and to engage in legislation to combat child trafficking. That's the solution. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you also say I'm upset about the Church. Look, I don't mind what anyone does right or wrong; I'll be critical of everything that goes wrong, whoever does it. We believe that violence has no gender, that violence has no age, that it can be violent and likely to be violent by anyone. Just as all victims, regardless of their gender, have the same right and the same recognition. Your Honor, as far as the Church is concerned, you also say that most of the stolen babies were stolen in Church hospitals. The biologist himself, the author of the report of the National Institute of Toxicology, denies this, because he says that most of the thefts of babies that were reported were from public hospitals such as La Paz or the Twelve of October. Therefore, neither can you blame the Church. Really, I am very sorry that this horror story of yours is sold phenomenal, but in the spirit of your own law - which we are really using -, in the spirit of the search for the truth of your own article 1.2 (a), you cannot affirm what you are saying, at least if we do so frankly. Rufian says I use the ETA wild card. For Rufian two truly stolen girls, who have really been robbed of their lives, who have been robbed of their families, is a wild card. [[shows a photograph of two girls]] I really don't know what to answer to that. [[Applauds]] You don't care about the 858 victims of ETA, or the 379 unsolved cases, or even the 40,000 compatriots who died from the coronavirus. You use Franco's wild card. [[Rumors]] As for Bildu, you say you pay tribute to the stolen baby associations. Yes, the truth is that they are very tributes; it would be good if that sentimentality that they use with stolen babies and their associations and the supposed tributes that they do to them would employ it and have the same touch with the victims of terrorism, because the truth is that until a few days ago we continued to live tributes to the killers of these two wilds. [[Shows the same picture of two girls.-Applause]] The truth is, I'm so touched by sentimentality. Above all, I am touched by one thing that has shocked me a lot about your law, article 5. It has been many, many years since Parliament legislated on the foetus. Congratulations, because you, in your article 5, have considered the fetus, and also with a certain humanity, not as a handful of cells or as a cyst. You have come to say that you care about babies and yet with your policies and ideology you steal from the Spanish 100,000 children a year. In addition, they often steal them for genetic reasons. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is uncomfortable to say, but 85% of babies with Down syndrome are not born in this country because of their genetic condition and those babies are indeed stolen. [[Applauds]] Those babies are stealing them from Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen, and I am finished, we have really been looking for the truth since VOX and that is the only thing that moves us. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Yeah, exactly, I've proved it, no one else has given a single data and the only ones they've given were...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u81	Mrs. De Meer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u82	I'm done, Your Honor. Tagore said the truth isn't on the part of anyone who screams the most. The truth will not be on your side, however much you shout with your media. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u83	Thank you, Mrs. De Meer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u84	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I think that the spokesman who preceded me, with his two speeches, has starred one of the most shameful moments of this legislature, and it is not for lack of attendance at this unfortunate contest. [[applause]] There are very poor, very bad, very low interventions, but what has been heard today is curling the curl because it has been a cynicism, a cheerful cynicism talking about a circumstance that I imagine she does not even dare to deny and, however, she tried to go for truths because at the bottom of what we are talking about is something that affects her political essence, which is the denial of Francoism. [[Rumors.-A lady MP: The truth!]] You live very badly with the Francoist heritage; sometimes you show it more, sometimes less, but what is being talked about is the crimes of Francoism, which, since there was no break in the transition, remained unpunished, and that explains a lot of things about the current political configuration of this House and that certain speeches are made that in other countries that have experienced dictatorships such as the Francoist would be unimaginable, unimaginable with this degree of negationism, this degree of cynicism, this degree of caradura in the background. We wanted to begin with our intervention in support of this bill by recalling the work of journalism and the public media. It was a documentary, Els nens perts del franquisme, which is now almost twenty years old, which in its moment aroused interest in this problem. The joint work that historians, journalists, documentaries did at the time - I insist, the public media supporting the documentary genre - led to this increase of awareness and the socialization of this problem. As the proposed law highlights, the origin of this practice of rescuing children from their mothers was seen as a consciously planned policy of Francoism; not of some doctors, not of some nuns, but a consciously planned policy of the Franco regime. Some still doubt that Francoism was a fascist regime. Knowing the writings and experiments of Dr. Vallejo-Nágera, a doctor who came to have a lot of power for the trust that Franco gave him, dispels any doubt about it. His pseudoscientific theories sought a pathological explanation of leftist militancy and had nothing different from those at the time put into practice in Nazi Germany or Fascist Italy. After Els nens perts del franquisme, more research was developed that highlighted the continuity between these post-war Francoist policies and the theft of babies in the following decades that, with a somewhat different speech, also legitimized that certain women could not be mothers. That is why this law is, above all, an act of justice for those who promote it, for the victims, who have the full right to identity and, therefore, to clarify the circumstances of their adoption and of their biological family. But this law is also understood as a recognition of single mothers, who had to endure social pressure, the morale of sociological Francoism and the contempt of the civil and religious authorities of the moment, who judged them simply because they were pregnant, a fact on which only these women should have decision-making power. About that stigmatization, about that guilt then operated the plot of the stolen babies. The courage of these single mothers was also a resistance, albeit silent, to Francoism and they deserve our tribute. As the same text of the proposition points out, the theft of babies remained beyond even Franco's death. Why? Because we are faced with another of those Francoism crimes on which the Transition ran a tupid veil. The discourse of reconciliation - which still has acritical supporters today - ignores that the pacts of the Transition were based on silence on facts such as those which today, many years later - very late - we began a process of reparation. The absence of a process of truth, justice and reparation on these crimes of Francoism at the time of the Transition has an influence, as I began by saying, in the current political configuration of the Spanish State, in certain discourses, in certain mindsets and in certain electoral results. That is why all acts of memory, such as the law that begins to walk today, deserve our full support.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u86	Thank you very much, President. Almost two years ago, coinciding with World Children's Day, we took into consideration the proposed law on stolen babies that we are debating again today after its decline with that of the XII Legislature. Today we resume that initiative with the same thanks to all the associations of victims for their constancy against the opacity, against the lack of collaboration, against the complexity of the bureaucracy; finally, against the permanent wall against which they have clashed in defense of their dignity and rights. The bill that we are debating today must involve the lifting of the veil of silence and oblivion of a drama that began in the post-French war and which continued and drifted into an immoral business until democracy entered well into. A drama, as I said, that is not integrated by isolated facts, but by facts that appear to be of unusual proportions, ranging from the 30000 that have already been cited by reference to the National Court to the 300,000 of which victims' associations speak. It is this same ignorance of the exact dimension of this tragedy that adds pain to pain and exposes a social and collective behavior of omission, insensitive to the suffering of victims. Victims, as has already been said, who were among the most vulnerable in society, single mothers stigmatized socially and without social support, who were deceived by the death of their newborn, who were sold or given up to appropriate families. Children who become victims again when they know their situation and their lives collapse as they suffer a crisis of identity. Drama, ladies and gentlemen, because, as I told you in the past, of all these reported cases, almost all, practically all, have been archived for lack of evidence in the face of the passage of time and the difficulty for the victims of accessing both the archives and the clinical histories where to find the documents that support the thefts and identify the witnesses. And drama also about the use made by the courts of the statute of limitations to order the filing of cases, without understanding that the calculation for the prescription of illegal detention should not start with the age of majority of the affected person, but from the moment when the victim is not only aware of what happened, but also is able to overcome the pain barrier that causes him to accept his non-biological parents, as argued by the Prosecutor's Office in its Circular of 2012 to unify criteria in procedures for the abduction of newborn children and to keep the cases procedurally alive. And courts that have not just understood that the offences of simulating childbirth and falsification in the official document continue to have effects and the criminal conduct being maintained; we trust that in the near future the Supreme Court will resolve these issues in the sense that the Prosecutor's Office maintains for the unification of doctrine. Ladies and gentlemen, to date there have been timid institutional steps to deal with this drama of the stolen babies in Spain, such as the 2012 Circular of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the agreement of the following year between several ministries to set up a monitoring commission and an information office for those affected by the possible abduction of newborns. But it will now, ladies and gentlemen, be with the start of the procedures for the adoption of this law when one of the blackest pages of Francoism and its epilogue in democracy will be definitively and fully lifted. A law that, as has already been said, relies on a new sensitivity and bases its action on the right to know what has happened; on the duty to judge, where appropriate, its perpetrators and accomplices; on the right to re-establish the unjust committed with the right to identity and re-enactment; on the right to victim assistance; and on the right to ensure that such crimes do not recur through the awareness of society and through acts of collective recognition and memory of victims. In short, a law based, as has already been said, on the right to the truth, the right to justice, the right to reparation and the right to memory. A law that will not be an empty shell - and I am now finalizing, President - but will have precise instruments to make those rights and principles real and effective through, among other measures, a database of victims, a specialized prosecutor and police, and the creation of a public body for the search for stolen babies and comprehensive assistance to victims. The proposal that we are considering today comes to give a comprehensive response to the victims and that is why the Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in their favour, because the border - as I said two years ago - of our dignity as a society lies in the truth, the justice and reparation of victims who ask us for our help and we cannot deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start by referring to VOX's deputy. In his argument he has equated - on some occasions We can also do this - the stolen babies with the children of the families of surrogate gestation. He has mentioned that they come from Ukrainian women's farms and I find it regrettable that when families are not as populism likes, they identify them with cattle. I think it's totally unfortunate. [[Applauds]] Entering the initiative we are discussing today, it brings us back to one of the most unpleasant episodes in our country's history and at the same time it is a proposal that addresses a deeply human issue. In Citizens we are not looking at who presents the initiative, but at its content, and that is why we are going to support such an initiative, which I also believe should be supported by the whole House. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about gross violations of the human rights of many families and their children by their abduction in prisons, clinics and maternity hospitals; episodes, in short, when it becomes very ungrateful not to look forward and look away; episodes where it is only possible to act, humbly contributing to improving the situation after so many years without doing justice. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we have to bear in mind that with this matter we are dealing with an issue of equality, since many of those illegal, illegitimate and inhuman abductions were practised to mothers who at the time were considered ungrateful, on the basis of ideological prejudices which at the time were called moral, but who, although they wanted to mask themselves in a moral situation, were really immoral. Many of them mainly affected the most vulnerable women, poor women and single mothers. It is at this point, ladies and gentlemen, where I am often put a knot in my stomach, as many women only because of being gypsies were victims of being taken away from their children. [[Applauds]] A question like that to me causes a knot in my stomach. After listening to several testimonies, I want to draw attention to a phrase that was repeated: Don't worry, we will take care of everything. This was said in a repeated way by the heartless to the victims. I think it is important to remember the victims, the brave people who have brought this to light with their testimonies, the people who have wanted to share their personal and family privacy with the sole aim of knowing the truth and doing justice. I would also like to thank all those families who have faced the complexity of the process bureaucracy, the difficulty of being told not because of lack of evidence and the lack of cooperation that hospitals and clinics have sometimes experienced. All these families deserve special recognition here. Cases of babies stolen in Spain remain unresolved. For the most part, they have been archived for lack of evidence and it is therefore important that we remember that, thanks to the record of all those people, of all those families, who have not stopped working, the situation has risen to the European level, having on many occasions received European reports to bring this situation to light. Citizens will support such an initiative, this proposed law, to overcome so many years of oblivion and silence on the part of the institutions. Furthermore, I think it is important that we talk about these issues without demagoguery, without populism and without making total amendments to democracy, because these illegal, illegitimate and inhumane practices of subtraction have really continued during democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be generous and not use the issue in a partisan way, because this is not a political revenge against any democracy, but a way of doing justice to so many families affected by this tragedy. That is why we believe it is important to remember the plight of the victims and to bear in mind that, thanks to them, we have received the visit of a delegation from the European Union and the subsequent recognition by the European Parliament to ensure that families have access to the relevant archives. I would like to make it clear that we are faced with an initiative that promotes the defence of human rights, justice and redress. This is where I always ask for political size, this is where I often ask for a broad look, and I regret that this proposal is not adopted unanimously. What we should all do is try to improve it, make it effective and propose our amendments so that this legislation is as fair and effective as possible. In this Congress we often see that there are moments of chasm, reproach and even insults and disqualifications. That is why I am proud to participate in a debate like this in which we have to make a call to responsibility. Everyone here is the Legislative Power. It is up to us to give the status of law to the problems, injustices and adverse situations suffered by citizens. When we do this, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only putting solutions on the table, but what we do is not leave the citizens abandoned and tell them that they have the support of the institutions. That's why it's important that we don't let the victims go. Moreover, with legislation like this we help to stop stigmatizing situations like the one we are going to recognise today. We will therefore support this proposal so that there is a law that recognizes the right to the truth and contemplates the instruments and mechanisms necessary to give substance to that right; a law that allows those responsible to sit on the benches, those organized mafias of unscrupulous criminals who have not dared to face the face; in short, a law that will contribute to justice. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I was going to start by saying why our group is going to vote in favour of this bill, but, if I may, first of all, I would like to say that, out of Christian charity, I wish the victims who have promoted this bill and who are not here today to accompany us, like other times, have not heard the speech of the ladies and gentlemen of VOX. Once I came up here to tell you two things: that you had a very black soul and that you came here to take advantage of other people's struggles to make your show. Today I ratify, because it is the most embarrassing speech you have made here in the time that I have been in this Chamber. [[Applauds]] Do not make comparisons between reproduction and stolen babies. I'm even nervous, because I found today's VOX speech incredible. I think it's an impressive cruelty. For me today, your role ends here, because today's role is of the victims, of the parents, of the mothers and of the stolen children, who at last this law will protect them, so here I stop addressing you. As you know, I recently came up to this rostrum as the democratic spokesman of my group to apologize for coming late to the approval of the withdrawal of the decorations from Francoist officials and authorities, and today we have the opportunity for no one to come up here again, years later, to apologize for not having supported this law and for being late. There are thousands of women who expect from our democracy a halo of hope to know the truth about what they did to their children and their daughters at birth, and thousands of those stolen children are now adults and adults, and they also have the right to know their origin, as they were bought by a criminal network born around the 1940s and which has lasted until well established democracy. Talking about stolen babies is not about historical memory, but about the present. Many of these mothers to whom their sons or daughters were taken out of their wombs are still alive and have remembered not a single day of their sons and daughters all this time. It all began, as you know, around the 1940s, when wealthy families like the Franco regime stole, through religious orders, the babies of Republican women as a means of political repression. The target was as grotesque as it was infamous. The Francoism intended with this practice - it has already been said here - to prevent the supposed red gene from being transmitted from father to son; so ridiculous is fascism. In the second phase, babies were stolen from mothers of large or humble families. The Catholic national ideology justified this theft of babies for relocation to families of good. They decided with which family a baby could be raised and the mothers left the hospitals in the belief that their babies had died. The women in the dictatorship were not subjects of law, we were merely objects of reproduction. In a third phase, there was also an economic motivation and democracy had already begun: the host families were handing out large sums of money to institutions that were responsible for these thefts and the victims were often women with several children, young women who were first born or, as has been said, women who had children alone. If there is a common nexus at all stages, it is the terrible gender repression that nullifies the most basic rights of women. And you say let's talk about numbers. Lords of VOX, no; there are data, there are women like Maria Bueno, an Andalusian woman from La Linea de la Concepción who, on the night of Christmas Eve 1981, gave birth; they entered a hospital ruled by the Sisters of Charity and told her that her baby had been dead for several months in the womb; they took her to a morgue and taught her a dead baby. Mary later discovered that she did not appear in the birth book or in the entrance to the cemetery. Mary has been in court for years trying to get justice done. There are thousands of stories like that, thousands, that you won't deny and you won't hide. Like Lola's, 1981, in Merida, pregnant with her sixth child. [[Rumors]] Like the midwife who was going to assist you... Please, I'm talking. [[Rumors]] The midwife who was going to assist her suggested that as she was poor and already had many children, when she gave it to a family and that she was going to pick it up in a towel. [[Rumors]] Well, whenever you want, ladies and gentlemen. Can I keep talking?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u91	Quiet, please. Go on, Mrs. Velarde.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u92	That family was going to pay over a million pesetas, which was then what cost two floors. Lola was so afraid that as they opened a public hospital a few months earlier she went to give birth there, and that saved her and her daughter. And so thousands of women, thousands of babies stolen, appropriate and forcibly disappeared. Behind these crimes were the most powerful families in the country and the active participation of the Catholic Church, because the hospitals were governed by religious orders. In Argentina, the grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo who were looking for their grandchildren have counted about 500 missing children in the military dictatorship of the country. And in Spain it is estimated that there were thousands and thousands of girls stolen - as Antonio Hurtado said, 30,000 - however, the Spanish criminal plot remains the most unknown and invisible crime of Francoism. The time has come to do justice, to recognize the theft of babies as a crime against humanity, to recognize the situation of victims to those affected and affected by that crime and to recognize and guarantee the rights to truth, justice, reparation and non-repetition for the victims. It is a law that is promoted with victims organized in coordinators, networks, associations, neonatalist entities, feminists...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u93	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u94	I'm done, I've been cut twice. Associations that make up all the victims of the dictatorship and democracy. Finally - and I finish - most of his lordships are mothers or fathers. Think for a moment if your boys or girls had been killed in childbirth and after time they discovered that it was a lie, that they were simply robbed. Imagine it for a moment. Put yourself on the skin of Ines, Pepa, Mary, Paqui and those thousands of other women, and also think that you could be sons or daughters of other parents, and that the family history you have told them could be a great lie. Therefore, it is urgent that this law see the light, because the justice that comes late is not justice and with this pandemic we have also verified how there are parents who have gone without knowing where their children are. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the search for the truth of these families is the search for justice that our country deserves and has been denying for so many years. We'll do it in spite of you, gentlemen of VOX. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Clavell López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to devote the first seconds of my speech to showing the full support of the People's Parliamentary Group to the representatives of special education who have spoken at the door of Congress this afternoon to prevent the closure of these schools. [[Applauds]] Now more than ever, inclusive yes, special too. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the matter. There must be no greater pain than forced separation between a mother and her child; to see how she is separated and to ignore the future of that child is a sorrow that, for life, will accompany that woman. And this suffering is the main reason why we consider it a great mistake to use it for political and propaganda purposes. For this reason, our commitment remains with the associations of those concerned, beyond concrete terms that we may not share in their drafting, especially in the explanatory statement, which seeks to avoid unity. We must all be represented here responsibly enough to put aside our ideological differences and stand alongside the people who have suffered and continue to do so. In short, we must humanize, sensitize and recognize that suffering. The rapporteurs are well aware of this proposal for a law that we have studied, and very carefully, the proposal that brings us to the plenary session of the Congress. Studying it, as I say, carefully, I would like to stress that, indeed, much remains to be done on this matter, of course, and it must be acknowledged, but it is also not fair not to acknowledge that things have already been done with the last Government of the People's Party, and one of them is that the coordination mechanisms with the Office of the Prosecutor that have been in place since then are working properly. To this end, the Ministry of Justice is assisted by a number of members of the fiscal career who provide advice and support in this area. The Office of the Attorney-General is represented under the partnership agreement signed on 26 February 2013 by the Ministries of Justice, Interior, Health, Social Services and Equality and the above-mentioned Office of the Attorney-General, and the said representatives are accountable for the activities carried out in their own field. The agreement provides for the establishment of a monitoring commission and the establishment, under the authority of the Ministry of Justice, of the Information Office to be affected by the possible abduction of newborns. Since then, public administrations have undertaken to institutionally support potential stakeholders and to facilitate the process of searching for and collecting information and documentation relating to their natural affiliation. On the other hand, as far as DNA evidence is concerned, it has already been dealt with in those cases where the procedure has been judicialized and where, within the framework of the procedure, it has been requested by the judicial or prosecutorial authority. Similarly, those affected who have been tested for DNA in private laboratories can incorporate DNA free of charge and become part of the unique DNA database of the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences. Therefore, the data base collects the profiles that have been judicialized, such as these contributed to the purposes and carried out in private laboratories, producing information crosses of all of them. The People's Party Government's claim was always, among other things, to assist victims in the search for information and to create and make available an information service, which is accompanied by a database of genetic profiles. In addition to the Government, the Attorney-General's Office acted with its 2012 circular on the unification of criteria in procedures for the abduction of newborn children, and sought a legal path to keep these cases alive, classifying the theft of babies as an offence of illegal detention on a permanent basis, so that the statute of limitations does not begin to run as long as the victim is kept unaware of his or her biological origin. In the face of this very serious matter, which must be dealt with in a definitive and real way immediately, and I would like to stress that the Group of the European People's Party joins in taking this initiative into consideration in presenting any amendments it deems appropriate in order to improve the text. I therefore announce that we will vote in favour. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Clavell.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u98	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress calling on the Government to audit the number of deaths since the beginning of the pandemic due to COVID-19 disease in Spain. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u99	We've got 13,000 dead in there, but we can't locate them now. These are the words of Dr. Simon last Friday. Amazing. Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to convey, first of all, our condolences and affection to all the families who have lost a loved one in this pandemic. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of clarity and reliability in the figures offered by the Government for people infected and killed by this pandemic has been a constant. Talking about Spaniards who have lost their lives fills me with pain. Families who have lost a loved one continue to mourn. We're all still in mourning. We have experienced a real drama, but we need to know the truth, because the truth is the first hygienic, democratic measure against the coronavirus; it is a requirement of transparency and democratic health. But without certain data we will not know the actual extent of the virus and, moreover, we will not be able to take the necessary measures to fight it and, now also very important, to fight the rebounds. On Sunday we left the state of alarm; after a hundred days, the balance is desolating. Since 'Spain is prepared to face the Chinese coronavirus', there for January, and 'Spain is not going to have, at best, beyond any case', we find that Spain is today one of the three countries on the planet with the highest mortality rate for COVID, even with false figures. Spain's sad image in international media has demonstrated its poor management in COVID. Le Monde, Financial Times, The New York Times, said, "I don't know another country that's taken two thousand dead; an international horn. [[Show a photocopy]] Massive events were allowed in the first days of March, sporting events, despite the reports available to the Government disapproving it, despite the fact that today they want to make them disappear. The Fedea study says that, having acted a week earlier, we would have avoided 62% of the contagion. The government's deaf ears to alerts, the WHO and ECDC calls for the purchase and collection of material, to ensure the protection of our health care providers, make today we have 55 000 infected health care professionals. All our support and all our appreciation for them; for it is they, and only them, who have saved lives, unfortunately, at the expense of their own in many cases. You could keep reminding them from the 'no need to wear masks' to the mandatory use today; the defective and failed purchases of the single command; the false diagnostic tests; the non-usable respirators; the masks fake; the bandages and changes in measurements and corrections; in short, a real disaster. But, ladies and gentlemen, why don't we have the actual data on the deceased? From one day to the next, we saw - for example, last Friday - that there were 1,200 more dead, after having had the frozen figure twelve days. We've seen how in one day 2,000 dead disappeared without any explanation. Dr. Simon admitted on Friday, publicly, the existence of 12,000 or 13,000 deaths unaccounted for. Where are they? In the statistical limbo. The differences between the data that Health offers -28325 died to date - and those that publish other agencies, also from the Government - more than 43000 in most of them - are staggering. The National Institute of Statistics, the MoMo system of the Carlos III Institute of Health, the Spanish Funeral Service Association, the autonomous communities' own count, all give figures with this very important excess. The High Courts of Justice themselves have acted and that of my autonomous community, Castile-La Mancha, speaks of an excess of 170% difference. The accounting of the cases of the deceased has been a real chaos. In the words of many scientists and epidemiologists, changes in the criteria of data collection make it impossible to monitor and monitor the epidemic from the outset. The chaotic explanations, also from the Government, trying to justify the unjustifiable: first, that it was the data given by the autonomous communities, when it is not true, because the count is much higher. After that, which were the recommendations of WHO; nor is it true, WHO has recommended that cases confirmed by COVID with diagnostic evidence be accounted for, as well as suspected cases of COVID that were not diagnosed because they did not have a diagnostic test. What does the government want to hide? It is clear that with real data today Spain is the country with the highest mortality rate in the world; that is what it wants to hide. Look, zero in transparency, zero in rigor, but the worst of all is the lack of respect for the deceased - that's the worst - and their families. A government that doesn't count its dead is a government that doesn't match the Spaniards it serves. Their data, the data offered by the Government, are no longer believed by anyone. This week a survey was published that says that three out of four Spaniards do not believe the data offered by Health. They no longer deceive anyone, so we present this non-legislative proposal in which we ask and urge the Government to audit the actual number of dead; to comply with the WHO recommendations and to add those killed by COVID with diagnostic test and also cases with compatible symptoms that have not been tested; to offer the Spaniards public and detailed information. We extend our hand to them again, we have offered them - Mr. Married has done - again the Cajal pact to strengthen our National Health System.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u100	Mrs. Romero, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u101	I'm finishing up. We have proposed to them the creation of a national office for the care of victims by COVID and their families. I'm done, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the Government, the dead are not numbers, they are people, with their biographies, with their personal stories, who have died in absolute solitude, the majority without being able to fire their family and, moreover, the larger majority. They belong to this generation to which we owe so much, which brought forth Spain with great sacrifice.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u102	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u103	I'm done. Really, ladies and gentlemen, do you think it doesn't matter to know the truth? If you had been killed by your father or mother, wouldn't you want to know what he died of? Of course it matters, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that you like historical memory so much, I say to you that our best historical memory is our greatest.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u104	Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u105	I'm done with one last sentence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u106	It's just that it's been over a minute now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u107	They are our elders, so we cannot allow them to disappear neither from our memory nor from our history, because the dead do not disappear even if they hide them and, therefore, we ask that in the act of homage next July 16th be told, honored and paid homage to all the deceased, ladies and gentlemen, to all the deceased. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u108	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mrs Gorospe Lezcano intervenes, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u109	Thank you, President. Mrs Romero - let me see if I can locate her - good afternoon. From our parliamentary group - talking about the deaths of the COVID-19 - we also began by showing our pain for the situation and giving sympathy to each and every one of the families who have lived more than anyone in the first person the consequences of this situation. I am sure that if all the parliamentary groups that we are here have to make a top of the weaknesses that have been shown, that have emerged throughout the health crisis, the weakness of the information system and of the collection of data would be one of those weaknesses, and I believe that all parliamentary groups believe that it is something that needs to be improved, but it needs to be improved now, in the short term, and also in the face of future outbreaks or other pandemics that may arise. You were talking, Mrs Romero, about data lag. It is evidence that there has been a data gap, the question is what are the reasons for that gap. Last week, in the Health Working Group, Dr. Martín Moreno said that this data gap was not something that had occurred exclusively in the State, but that he used an expression that said: it is due to hesitations and contradictions both at the state and at the international level and also at the international level. I think it is right that we should make as assertive a reading as possible of the reasons underlying the substance of this problem, which is real and which must be solved, so that we can give it to all of us a correct solution. We do not consider that the will has been to hide data from dead people because, in fact, raw, according to the MoMo system, to which you referred, and according to the Renac data, the number that appears is twenty-eight thousand and something and yet they have come out more dead. Therefore, the will was not to hide, but the treatment given to that information. We wonder how we have to solve it. We have amended its initiative, and what we are proposing is to urge the Government to speed up the update of the official death record data, so that the actual data offered by the INE will return all the details of the death certificates and we have more information on the reality of that information. If we want to make a rigorous reading of what has really happened, we have to start with the actual data that the National Institute of Statistics is going to offer us. That's what we asked on our initiative. What do we have to do in the future? Undoubtedly, establish criteria so that the different administrations that handle this information and that have to report this data have fixed criteria. We also understand that those criteria that are established, because of global pandemics, must be international criteria, at least European ones, so that the data we obtain is homogeneous, so that we can make comparisons in the same terms and draw conclusions, because it is the only way to be able to correct the answers that we are going to give. In our view, that is what we should do, as well as improving the information and data collection system. We also consider - I insist, again speaking of a global pandemic - that the data collection information system should be incardinated in a network at least European so that everything is homologable and comparable. Today we have amended, like other parliamentary groups, thinking that we could make that gesture of offering agreements, even on issues such as these, by transparency, by giving a correct response to the situation and because each and every deceased person and his or her family deserve to be made clear. It has not been possible, it seems, to us that no one has approached us to consider a possibility of a compromise amendment, but we have an opportunity because one of the amendments tabled proposes that the future evaluation committee should also be approached. Let's see if we're all capable of doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u110	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia In Comú, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u111	I would like my first words to be in memory of the people killed by the pandemic, their families, the victims affected in one way or another, and my affection and support for all the health workers. I want to dedicate a special memory and greeting to my colleagues at the Peset Hospital in Valencia, because I know everything they have worked on during this pandemic. The non-legislative proposal brought by the Group of the European People's Party today, Mrs Romero, I honestly do not know what to call it, seems to me to be disrespectful, because you know perfectly well the questions you are asking here, you know them, because you are in the Commission, you are the President of the Commission. You have witnessed all the Minister's explanations and know what the reason is, but now I explain it to you. [[Mrs. Romero Sánchez makes negative signs]] Yes, he does, but I'll explain it to him now. They submit a non-legislative proposal and request an audit of the people killed by the pandemic. They do so knowingly that Spain is fulfilling what the World Health Organization says, and WHO recognizes it. They do so knowing that the data are largely provided by the Autonomous Communities, many of which are governed by you. What are you doing with the data in those autonomous communities? They do so knowingly that both the Carlos III Institute, through the mechanism for monitoring excess mortality, and the National Institute of Statistics publish all available data. If there were any reason for concealment, the raw data would not come out, they would be hidden. It just seems to me that the argument is very strange. Worst of all, the PP knows that the information it requires is impossible to have it right now in an immediate way. You know that in a normal situation the process of identifying the ultimate cause of death lasts between eight and nine months, and it is longer in a pandemic, and it is always so, not now because there is a pandemic, but because it has to be done according to the international classification of diseases. The epidemiological process that is taking place has been perfectly explained by Mr Simon. There is an appearance that lasts fifty-six minutes and if you look at it you will see how you perfectly understand how that count works and you will see how you have everything clear and explained, because all you do here is question what is being done, and what is being done is absolutely right. This I am saying has been said by epidemiologists, as Mrs Gorospe said, and by preventatives who have appeared in the Health Working Group, including those convened by the PP. But you insist on not listening to the answer they give you; you insist on repeating a question you know the answer to because what you want is to generate a bubble, that is your pretension, to generate a bubble. [[applause]] They know that Spain has an excess of mortality not counted as COVID, and it has it, of course, because we do not yet have the data. France has it just like us, Italy, the Netherlands, the United States, the United Kingdom has 16,000 uncategorized as COVID. And another thing happens, and it's that when you count for the international count, if the patient has COVID but has not died from COVID, you have to get it off the list. All that you know is happening, and you come here to question legality, legitimacy, good doing. What you're saying is what I think is amazing. They're gestating a bubble because it's your usual policy, it's obviously the policy of this legislature. It's the first time I've come here and it's amazing. You are continually questioning the Government, that is its purpose. It's not about the pandemic. I think that does a lot of damage to the families of the deceased and the country. By the way, plotting in Europe as the PP does to try to harm Spain also does a lot of damage. They like the flag very much, but they do it against the Spaniards. Be a little more careful. [[Applauds]] If you want an audit, audit Operation Bicho, which is in the press. Listen to her; twelve sad days on which Mrs. Ayuso's government imprisoned the geriatric residents and entrusted her health to the Burgueño Incarnation, who directed the Health Council's plan in a totally inoperative manner and without any means whatsoever. It's in the press. Tax that; tax that failed medicalization.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u112	Mrs. Medel, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u113	Yeah, I'll be done in a second. You know what I want you to do? Let them recognize the damage that you have done to health with the cuts, because that has done damage to the pandemic. [[Applauds]] That did hurt. Because if there is consensus today to work for health and to achieve reconstruction, it is not just the pandemic, but the damage that you cause in public services, which are important compensators of inequality. And you cause that damage whenever you can. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u114	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Del Valle Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes me very sad to have to talk today about auditing the number of people killed by COVID-19 as a result of the fact that this government, which presumes to be progressive and transparent, has lied to us and has distorted the data and accounting of those killed because of the coronavirus. He said the dearest to some of the members of the government, Mr Stalin, that a single death is tragedy and a million deaths is a statistic. And that is exactly what the dead have been for this government: statistics. [[Rumors]] And that's why they watered millions of euros on the like media, so that they only showed images of people clapping and dancing and omitted those of the dead, those of coffins, those of families crying, despite counting them for thousands every day at the peak of the pandemic. What a lack of humanity on his part! They have offended their memory and their families. And now they urge those who have had the stomach to make it possible: their necessary co-operator, Mr Simon. [[Several Members: Ooooh!-Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government recognizes only those who died with a coronavirus test and not those who had symptoms, even though the WHO considered that a person who died of coronavirus in a case of probable infection with COVID-19 had to be quantified as such. That is, whether he had been tested as if he had had the symptoms of the disease but had not been tested at all. The Spanish College Medical Organization itself gave instructions to its colleagues that in issuing the corresponding death certificates in cases of probable infection with COVID-19 without analytical confirmation, it should proceed to certify as follows: initial or fundamental cause of death, unconfirmed COVID-19 or suspicion of infection with coronavirus. Well, this Government has been given and given the same and maintains its view not to include so-called suspicious cases. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said here, but I repeat: everything indicates that there are more than 20,000 deaths not officially recognised as victims of COVID-19. As he said at first, the Government knows and lies knowingly. Their figures are not believed either in Spain or outside our borders; they lack all credibility and everything to try to cover up their inability and mismanagement from the start. All we have to do is remember the call to express to you the 8-M when the Government knew that there was a certain risk of contagion and put its ideological interests above the health of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the four categories covered by the non-legislative proposal we are discussing, I have to tell you that we agree with them on VOX, but we understand that they are short. That is why we have tabled two amendments to add two new categories, the number five: deaths from other diseases that would not have been fatal under normal circumstances, and the number six: total deaths from any cause in residential centres for the elderly, both public and concerted and private from all over Spain. With the first amendment, what we intend to do is to know the number of collateral deaths as a result of COVID-19 that are not counted as dead or as victims of coronavirus but are also counted as dead. With the second amendment, in view of the lack of actual data on deaths by COVID-19 in senior residences, we intend to know the total number of deaths by any cause in these centres in order to compare the data with the average number of deaths in the latter in recent years and thus obtain an estimate very close to the actual number of deaths as a result of COVID-19 I'm done, Mr. President. I would like to highlight the dishonorable tribute to the victims they intend to celebrate, making it an exculpatory ceremony for the Government. How do you have the little shame of summoning a tribute when we don't even know how many dead...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u116	Mr. Del Valle, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u117	...we buried them because they hid them? I finish, as I told you, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u118	But it just has to end now.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u119	For this reason, VOX will not attend the event. Our tribute will be to ensure that justice is done and that those guilty of leaving us a country ruined and with a record of deaths per inhabitant assume their criminal and ruinous responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u120	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Navalpotro Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u121	Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it gives me the feeling that you leave the state of alarm exactly as you entered: you are more concerned about the government than about the virus. [[Applauds]] There is something deeply irresponsible in all of your initiatives over these hundred days of pandemic; a hundred days in which your group has dedicated itself to dividing and sowing mistrust. Today, the task is to accuse the government of little less than lying to the number of people killed by COVID. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, once again - and in their case it is almost a legendary custom - they use the victims for their partisan interests; this is not the first time, they have us used to. Now, in a new twist, they use them even among their electoral arguments. [[Applauds]] No one was prepared to properly manage a situation like this, it is obvious, no one; the administrations, all of them, have been overcome. This has happened in Spain and other countries. It is clear that we need to learn and improve data management; we now know that we need to do better; we now know that we need to be better prepared. But, gentlemen of the PP, we suspect that your concern does not go beyond eroding the government. You accuse the government of concealing and manipulating the numbers of the deceased. A previous speaker has explained it very well, but we will review where the data comes from. You know that the mortality data disseminated by the Ministry of Health come from the autonomous communities, which report only the deaths confirmed with a diagnostic test, and it is the same government - the same - that gives two more figures: the statistics of INE deaths and those of excess mortality through the MoMo system. It would not have to be explained to him, but it is logical that the three figures are different since they use different methodologies. The three figures are complementary, the three are public - the three -, the three are provided by the Government - the three -. Like the unemployment figures, there are two official figures and you say nothing. It is therefore picturesque to think that the Government conceals something when the data you use to accuse the Government of lack of transparency are the data provided by the Government itself. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have not been so diligent to demand a little more attention and humanity in the management of residences. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Ayuso acknowledges - this is what you are constantly setting as an example - you have continued to manage residences where you govern, it has been your responsibility. We know that in the residences of Madrid the number of dead has been scandalous, between January and May, almost 20% of the elderly in the residences of Madrid have died in them; one in five, I repeat: one in five. We are accused of lack of transparency, but the technical management committee of the COVID has appeared every day, the Minister of Health has come to this House every week, the President of the Government has come every two weeks, the Government has given its face. Now, since you, who are so demanding, where is Mrs. Ayuso? What did you explain? Because they will already tell me if the abandonment to their fate of thousands of our elders - and, of them, almost 7,000 deceased - does not deserve an explanation. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know the amendment we tabled this morning. It reflects the unequivocal will of our group and the Government to clarify everything, it cannot be otherwise. The Government is committed to a study that measures the direct and indirect impact of COVID on our country's mortality. This study will be linked to the evaluation commission announced by the President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, it will still take some time for us to know for sure what has happened in our country, but the Government has an inexcusable commitment to the truth and to the memory of the victims. What I want - and listening to them I don't have it so clear - is that yours, your commitment, is the same as ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u122	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u123	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to show my solidarity with the victims and their families, and also to say that it seems to me a huge lack of respect that on a subject like this is not the Minister of Health. The truth is that, perhaps, we can even understand it, because we can understand it trying to hide because it is ashamed of its harmful management in this crisis. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Indeed, it is normal for him to be ashamed because, although we have seen many countries around the world suffer from the scourge of coronavirus, we have seen a few Governments manage this crisis as badly as the Government of our country has done. Firstly, because it turned its back on the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the European Union itself. Secondly, because all those who have been giving public health defense lessons have had public health workers unprotected, people without performing PCR tests, without testing them, taking care of people on the phone because health centers had collapsed. Those, who fill their mouths defending the public and defending public workers. If what we have seen in the management of this pandemic, we would have seen it with another government, imagine what we should have heard in this House. He said that the Minister of Health has come a long way to this House to appear at various Commission meetings. But the question is: what has it come to? Because he has come to make endless perorates for hours without giving any explanation, not a single day of those he has attended. [[Rumors]] We've been here for months? calling on the Government to report on the basis of which it has taken the decisions and not even under the auspices of the President of this House we have yet received them. And the question is, are there reports? If they don't exist, and that's why we're not told, the government lies. If the reports exist, and the Government has done the opposite to what the reports say, the Government not only lies but has also acted negligently. [[Applauds]] And if those reports exist, and the Government has continued to rajatabla what the reports say, the Government has acted with irresponsible disrespect to this House for not sending them. In any case, the attitude is unjustifiable. Just as it is unjustifiable that we attend every day to figures dancing a thousand dead down or two thousand up, because it is a lack of respect for our country. I think the least the victims deserve is the truth and the data. What cannot be done is that we attend data from the ministry that are contradictory to those given by the National Institute of Statistics, that we see Mr. Simon talking about that 13,000 dead are there and we don't know what they are, and that we have banally reduced the numbers of dead to a mere fact, without understanding that there is suffering and deep pain behind each one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u124	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u125	Thank you, President. I want to begin by expressing my condolences to all the families that have lost one of their members in this health crisis that has not yet ended. I am advancing the support of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for this proposal because it is essential to know the truth as raw as it may be. Two are the fundamental reasons that lead us to support it: one is the right of the Spaniards to transparency, especially that of the families of the victims, and two are to have data that will help scientists better measure the consequences of the pandemic; it is the best of the evidence and it is essential for the consequences not to be underestimated and for the future to have reliable data to understand, for example, the pattern of expansion and death of a virus. The daily mortality monitoring system, MoMo, casts serious discrepancies with the death data of the coronavirus offered by the Government. The number dance is bad, on the one hand, for the morale of the population because it is about the dignity of people who have died and who have done so in the worst circumstances, in solitude, and on the other hand, they undermine the credit of the institutions because it is not permissible to give figures one day, subtract the next day and add up again later. They have said from the Government that it is because they are figures given by the Autonomous Communities, but that the Government has assumed the communication and they are responsible for quadrupling these figures and determining whether or not this data has been transferred. Of course, we know that there are autonomous communities that reported deaths and then the Government said that no one had died. I have said that one of the main reasons, if not the main one, for giving the right number is respect for the deceased, but that respect is not only exercised by giving the right number. The Government has left much to be desired in this crisis. Here we have experienced a real spurt on the part of various actors and at least it is a lack of respect and delicacy. We have seen how the Government of Spain asked for loyalty and height of sight and at the same time spokesmen of the PSOE said that in Spain there were many deaths because Madrid is in Spain. In the autonomous communities where they do not govern PSOE and Podemos, these two formations have dedicated themselves to making life impossible for the governments of citizens and the People's Party. In addition, Podemos dedicated himself to putting activists in Spanish Radiotelevision disguised as nurses or psychologists in order to put the management of the Government of the Community of Madrid to a boil. Is that the loyalty they were asking from the central government? Despite all this, they have found the loyalty of Citizens. We have not fallen into this Cainite spiral and I am not going to tell you what you have called us because I want to keep the decorum in this House. In this pandemic we have heard unacceptable things. We have heard very unacceptable things about the whole parliamentary arc. We have heard VOX say that the fiercest euthanasia was made through the events in the homes of the elderly. Have you thought about the consequences of such an assertion? The nationalists, as always, exceeded expectations and the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona came to say that Spain was death and unemployment and that Catalonia was life and future and, well, the CUP called directly to cough on the face of the soldiers who were going to save their lives. Is this ceremony of morality, while hundreds of people died every day in Spain, what the Spaniards deserve? Is that respect for the dead? Do you realize that either we're all breaking this dynamic or we're never going to live up to the Spanish? Are you really going to keep calling the virus from the VOX virus of the Chinese Communist Party and in Podemos you're going to keep calling for anti-fascist measures against a virus? Is that the science they're going to apply in a pandemic? The only certainty we had at the beginning of this pandemic was that it was spread by people's mobility and that is why we have supported the state of alarm at all times when it has been presented. There have been parties that without improving the epidemiological circumstances changed the sense of vote in the state of alarm. Why? For political opportunity. They hear well: political opportunity in a pandemic. If you told me that by voting for the state of alarm I'd lose my seat, I'd vote for it again. No seat is worth the life of a human being, none. The Government has done things wrong, many: the masks, has taken measures unilaterally, has taken virtually all decisions late - many contagions could have been avoided by advancing many of the measures that they did not also take on a political issue -. But the obligation of politicians, according to National Emergency, is to park the differences. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Is there any doubt that Citizens would have done this very thing to govern the People's Party? Citizenship has been up to it, the Spanish make up a nation of solidarity and responsibility. Let's see if we can learn a bit from them in this House. It is not worth always putting the party before Spain. No party survives their country. Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, lucky they called me to the stand because I assure you that I was about to fall asleep; the debate is frankly boring. It is clear that the accounting of deaths by COVID is inaccurate. Obviously, it is only necessary to compare the MoMo figures and the daily monitoring of mortality with the figures of previous years and months to see that there has been an exponential increase that is undoubtedly largely due to the pandemic. Clearly, many of the dead in residences, homes and even hospitals may not have been counted as dead by COVID, when they have actually died by this pandemic of which science itself is so unknown. The government could probably have done much better. We believe that, in fact, the Government could have done better and could have been more transparent. But, as I told you, this debate is very boring, sovereignly boring. I suppose if any citizen of good faith has started watching the debate on television, he will have turned off the television or put the canine patrol or Pocoyó on it long ago. And I hope so because, if they have continued to pay attention to the debate, then we will have to apologize because we are hurting their sensitivity. Have the figures been misaccounted for? Sure. Could the Government have been more transparent? Sure. Could he have tried not to take advantage of the press briefings with the military and give more real information instead of trying to seek promotion? Sure. But from there to try to use this topic only to draw political revenue, on the one hand and on the other, we find it truly outrageous. Therefore, we are not going to participate in this boring debate, in this outrageous debate, and I announce that our group will abstain in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u128	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u129	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Precisely, out of respect for the pain of many families who are still suffering from the death of members of their family nucleus, using mortality figures and using the dead for political purposes of wear is neither good nor ethically nor politically, and even less to use them in a GNP, because a GNP would not have to have that meaning, since there are other mechanisms to do so. In any case, this does not mean that the health crisis of COVID has not exposed the deficits of the health systems, and precisely one such deficit is that of the information systems. But I repeat again that this is not the space and this is not the moment. In full pain, in the presence still of COVID in society and, therefore, in the presence of the dead and with the possibility of new outbreaks and contagions, it is not the time to use pain and the dead as a weapon of aggression to wear out other parties. In that sense, our group does not agree with the presentation of this GNP and we believe that there are other ways and ways of doing so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Sánchez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled by your group?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u131	We're talking. If you don't mind, then we'll pass you the answer. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u132	Thank you. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON COMBATING THE NEGATIONALISM OF GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 162/000134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u133	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal to combat the negationism of gender-based violence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u134	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, contempt for equality is the basis of ill-treatment and is therefore an unjustifiable social disease. This was said by Soledad Cazorla, the first public prosecutor against violence against women. The unforgettable Soledad Cazorla, a tireless fighter in the field of justice and a faithful defender of the need to combat and eradicate violence against women. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing this GNP to combat the negationism of violence against women. And why do we bring this initiative? We bring it into self-defence and collective defence, because denying gender-based violence puts women's security, freedom and life at risk. [[Applauds]] And against machism and negationism, evidence, ladies and gentlemen, data; data that unfortunately are not just data, because they are lives. Gender-based violence has taken 1054 women's lives since 2003, 21 this year. And, ladies and gentlemen, macho violence not only kills women, it also kills its sons and daughters, thirty-seven; thirty-seven boys and girls have been killed since 2013 by sexist criminals who wanted to cause the greatest damage that can be done to a mother. In the face of this cruel reality there is no half-talk, no hesitation, no room for doubt; in the face of gender-based violence only rejection is admissible. We must know, ladies and gentlemen, that gender-based violence is a matter of state, it is a problem of public health and public safety, because machismo puts at risk the safety and health of more than 50% of the population we are women. Therefore, of course gender-based violence is a pandemic, of course machismo kills and of course we will continue to say it and we will not stop saying it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the most insecure place in the world is for a woman? His house, his own house, and I don't say it, the UN says it. We must think a lot when we talk about the quality of our democracy if we know that a woman is not safe even in her own home. Ladies and gentlemen, denying gender-based violence is not acceptable, nor is it possible to gain access to an autonomous government. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that someone should think of questioning a story like Ana Orantes? How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that someone should think of questioning a story like Ruth Ortiz and his murdered children? How is that possible? What all the murders have in common is that the machistas who committed them considered that the women belong to them. Are there any doubts, ladies and gentlemen, that we live in a society in which there are still men who consider that women belong to them? That, Your Honor, is violence against women. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all heard it, the negators say that gender-based violence is not gender-based and that it is violence like all others. Ladies and gentlemen, of course there are other forms of violence, violence between people, but does anyone really doubt the serious dimensions of violence against women and that the origin is machismo? Do you think it's random that thousands of women are killed by their partners or ex-partners every year around the world? Does anyone really think there's no common origin in all the murders? There are other violence, of course there are other violence, but there is a specific violence against women and it is committed by being women. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, inequality and violence against women is structural, permeates the structure of relations in our societies, and that is one of the great shames of our modern democracy. However, ladies and gentlemen, gender-based violence not only translates into murder, which as we know is the most cruel manifestation; violence against women is also rape, it is also psychological aggression, it is also economic violence, and also, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is the insults that we women receive in politics, which all women receive, the Minister of Equality, the Vice-President of the Government or the spokesman of my group, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Adriana Lastra. [[Applauds]] Such machist insults are also violence against women. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a country internationally recognized by our legislation on gender-based violence. Law 1/2004 was the vanguard of European and global legislation in the fight against violence against women. Taking that law forward was not easy, not all of us had it so clear, who did have it clear, who did say it and did it was President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Applauds]] Zapatero said the Law against Gender Violence would be the first to be passed by his Government and so it was. We did something for which, we are convinced, politics serves - Zapatero said -: moving from rhetoric to law. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what happened to the law? He received one hundred unconstitutionality appeals, more than one hundred unconstitutionality appeals. No law has been appealed so many times. Well, ladies and gentlemen - you will also remember - all were dismissed. The law against gender-based violence is as constitutional as the one that most and, no doubt, the one that has had to prove it most often. I would like to highlight the State Pact against Gender Violence, which is the current framework from which we must push forward the policy of combating and preventing violence against women. This pact came forward in 2017 with the work of all the parliamentary groups present then in Congress and the Senate, although I have to say that the atmosphere was much more constructive. Do you know what happened then? That socialists do know how to be in opposition. [[Applauds]] That was then, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u135	Mrs. Berja Vega, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u136	I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have in your hand to distance yourselves from violence against women in VOX and to return to political coherence. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX - I am finishing, President - you do not believe in the Law against Gender Violence, you do not believe in women. [[Rumors]] Of course not, ladies and gentlemen. Your ladies in VOX call the women who report liars. For you to question the testimonies of women victims is the natural thing, because in your imagination they are manipulative to point out to men. No, ladies and gentlemen, women victims do not point to men, women victims point to sexists, aggressors and violent people. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must do this, we must do it all together, we must block the negationist discourse on violence against women and we must do it in self-defence, in defence of democracy and in defence of more than half of the population we are women. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs Berja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Olona Choclán is speaking first of all by the VOX Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u138	Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, where is the limit? where is the limit? How do they have the little shame of making political carrion of the suffering of violence, of ill-treatment? Where's the limit, Madam Spokesman? Where is the limit, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist proposing group? The reality is that you needed your video for Basque and Galician campaigns and what you're trying to do is corner the VOX Parliamentary Group with a series of fallacies and lies. But the reality is that they care very little about women. Did you think they were going to corner us, ladies? Did they think they were gonna keep us quiet and crowded? I could understand that, because that is what you have found on the right for the past twenty years, the same time that the Gender Violence Act to which you have referred has been in force. Ladies and gentlemen, do you see the VOX Parliamentary Group? Well, now I beg you to listen very carefully. The man doesn't rape; he rapes a rapist. The man doesn't kill; he kills a murderer. Man does not mistreat; he mistreats a mistreater. And man does not humble; he humbles a coward. [[Applauds]] As a woman, as a Spanish, as a mother, as a sister and as a politician I say - and it is an honor for me to do so on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group - that violence has no gender, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] He's got no gender! And we are not going to assume in our group that the male will be criminalized, that he will be made a potential murderer and an abuser, because we do not accept that violence is in male DNA, we do not accept his ideological and totalitarian laws. [[Applauds]] VOX: fifty-two Members. What they have imposed in Spain since that ideological law of 2004 was passed with the Government of Zapatero is not feminism, it is pure hembrism, pathological hatred towards the man. That is what they have imposed on our nation. [[Applauds]] Only VOX has decided to give the battle, bravely, because we do not kneel. We are going to face the division by sex that they have imposed on the Spanish nation, because they have dropped the discourse on the class struggle. Now the caste is them and, therefore, how are they going to defend the class struggle? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today you bring here a non-legislative proposal in which you say, literally, that saying that violence has no gender creates a direct impact on the victims, as it increases the fear, guilt and shame that these women suffer. How little shame they have! As we say in VOX that violence is gender-free, let us say loud and clear what we say to women and other victims who are victims of violence in the family. We tell them to report their attackers. We tell them not to stay a second longer in their homes. We tell them that in VOX they will always find people who stand on the side of the victims and ask for maximum judicial firmness for the aggressors and murderers. Only we call for life imprisonment for rapists and murderers and promise that we will not cease in battle until we achieve effective protection for women, of course, but also for the rest of the victims of domestic or domestic violence. [[Applauds]] What we will not do is allocate a single public euro to their subsidized chiringuites or to ideological battles, which are by no means on the side of the victims, because they are alone and are still alone, the 1054 murdered women. But on the data we'll go next. As Mrs Lastra, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, is not there, I ask you: what is a man for you? And now I ask your ladies and gentlemen of the United Parliamentary Group We can: what is a man? I ask you this because with this non-law proposal what you do is to put before a mirror the legal and ideological maze in which you have entered alone. For some, it is a social construction in front of which one can freely interpret: one is a woman or one is a man as one feels; for others, we talk about the biological fact. And the reality - as they say in the argument they had to get out a few days ago - is that they ask: could an abusive man point out that he feels like a woman and therefore not be tried for that crime? That is what you ask in your new argumentary, which I suppose you will have read to you. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, Mr President. The legislation on gender-based violence currently in force in Spain is a law that has broken equality between Spaniards; it has destroyed the presumption of male innocence in Spain, and it is a profoundly ineffective law, because we have 1054 women murdered since 2003. Do you know how many children have been killed in the domestic sphere since then? Neither have I, because we have no figures, only since 2013. [[Applauds]] Do you know how many grandparents, how many siblings, how many males, how many couples of homosexuals have been victims of family violence?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u139	Mrs. Olona, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u140	In conclusion, Mr President. We do not know this, because the reality is that this legislation, which is only a source of income for them, distinguishes between categories of murdered persons and distinguishes between categories of first and second victims. We are not going to allow it from the VOX Parliamentary Group. And if they thought they were going to keep us quiet and kneeling, here we are fifty-two brave to tell them that violence has no gender! [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u141	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Prohens Rigo.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, gender-based violence is a social problem and it challenges us all. We can go to the figures of any national or international agency. According to the UN, every eighteen seconds a woman is abused anywhere in the world; 137 women are killed daily by family members. According to the National Police, there have been 8790 detainees for gender-based violence during the state of alarm. According to the General Council of the Judiciary, in its report on the first thousand cases of victims of gender-based violence, there was a male murder per week in Spain from January 2003 to April 20, 2019. According to data from the Government delegation, 21 women have been murdered at the hands of their partners or ex-partners as of year, five during the state of alarm. Behind each of these victims, there is a life snatched away and many, too many, orphans. And every victim is an unforgivable shame that rests on the conscience of society and the public authorities. Something we're doing wrong. It's data; it's not ideology on either side. Because, ladies and gentlemen, violence, as the data indicate, has no ideology, it does have gender. And because it has no ideology, they won't find us the People's Party throwing figures at each other's heads, not making partisanship, not one or the other, of such a serious issue. Gender-based violence is a State issue and requires active and cross-cutting State policies. And, precisely in this spirit, being the People's Party in government promoted the State Pact against Gender Violence in 2017, which we approved with the unanimous practice of this House, except - we already know - we can. This is the spirit that the People's Parliamentary Group defends; the spirit of parties that knew how to put aside differences in order to reach a historical consensus; consensus without surnames of either right or left, neither progress nor conservative nor liberal; responsible and generous consensus. Therefore, from the People's Party we are not going to engage in provocations from either side. It will not be we who break this covenant. But, from the People's Party, we will be demanding with the government. The State Pact was a starting point that needs to be implemented and developed; and the current pandemic and the effects on women victims and their children force us to work without further delay. Gender-based violence is not solved with slogans, tweets or propaganda. The ministry has to move from the banners to the BOE, and the reality is that these last few months leave much to be desired. That is why we have tabled amendments to this proposal, with the aim of committing ourselves to action. Because this proposal, as it is proposed, does not solve the lives of the women who are out there, of the women who still suffer in silence and of those who said enough, but continue to suffer its consequences. It's up to you to commit and do it rigorously. That is why we are also proposing a change in wording, with the intention of improving and adding to the text. We propose moving from the term negationism, which is closely linked to the holocaust, to rejecting the denial of the existence of gender-based violence, as we also reject machismo. We believe that it is more rigorous and appropriate to refer to violence against women. We also propose the preparation of a study on the profile of abusers; we propose to present within six months an updated timetable on the implementation of the various measures of the State Pact; within nine months, a draft law against trafficking in women and girls for sexual exploitation agreed with political entities and groups; within three months, a plan against gender-based violence in rural areas; within twelve months, a macro-survey against gender-based violence that updates the 2015 data, which is the last we have, and finally, to strengthen the work of the security forces and bodies in protecting victims. We have a problem with complaints, we see it in the latest data and we see it in the study of the General Council of the Judiciary, and we cannot consent to messages from the Minister of Equality about the work of these professionals, falsehoods about whether they ask for the miniskirt and statements during the state of alarm requesting proportionality. A clear message: We must denounce, they are not alone, and we will protect them. I'm done. Those who come up to this rostrum to repeat mantras and falsehoods and to strike at my parliamentary group, to think that they will be helping women to speak, to reflect if that is what is expected of all of us.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u143	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u144	Yeah, I'm done. Or think whether their intervention, apart from serving to scratch some vote or contribute to the general schism, will generate some positive action, and think that this group is very proud of all the work it has done historically in the field of equality and in the fight against gender violence; very proud of the work of men and women side by side, starting with the I and II Comprehensive Plan against Gender Violence in the years 1996 and 2004 and the first order of protection for victims of violence in 2003.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u145	Mrs. Prohens, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u146	I'm done. And remember that all the entities that have passed through the Commission for Reconstruction have agreed that the great milestone of this country for this struggle is the signing of the 2017 State Pact. For us, he's not staying, and for you? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u147	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u148	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will begin my intervention by showing my solidarity with women victims of macho violence, their families, children who have also experienced this violence; recalling the situation of all these women victims of this scourge. We must also remember that for them confinement has been a constant and permanent exposure to the pain inflicted on them by their aggressors and that it deserves the revulsion of this whole House without palliatives. The data are clear: since 2003, more than 1044 murdered women and more than 35 000 minors affected, 83 per cent of the murders due to male violence have occurred at home and during this confinement, calls and requests for help to 016 have increased by 50 per cent. With all this, it would be a social setback to deny this reality, therefore, and in the field of equality, what we have to do here is to show consensus, unity and support and work for the victims of this unfortunate scourge. The work for real and effective equality between men and women is one of the pillars that we will always defend from Citizens. Why? Because there really is no greater sign of inequality between men and women than the violence that women suffer and that takes tens of lives every year. Today we are faced with an initiative that addresses one of the worst scourges in our society, the macho violence, with data that are evident, data that not only erect the skin, but that puts before our eyes the irrefutable existence of a social scourge that voraciously biases the lives of many women and leaves behind hundreds of orphaned children. Denying that this violence exists is only the first step towards not fighting it, and it is something that those of us who believe and defend equality will not allow, at no time will we allow it. I think it is important to put ourselves in the shoes of many women: women who do not have the means, women in poverty, women living in rural areas, women with disabilities, all those who are most vulnerable and who can be attacked by gender-based violence in a much more serious way. Therefore, when we legislate, when we make legislative proposals such as today's, from Citizens we will draw up amendments such as those we have tabled because we must have a broad view of the situation of women and we must not leave any behind. We must end unfounded speeches that look elsewhere at situations of violence, but, moreover, we must go one step further and not stay in the discourse, but we must launch the Pact against Gender Violence, we must say enough of the macho violence with facts, beyond declarations. I agree with the statements, but I believe that the Government must maintain a firm commitment to the Pact against Gender Violence. I am already sorry that at the time the Parliamentary Group We can rise from the table of this Pact against Gender Violence, but we must look to that pact. That is why another of our amendments to this proposal is to propose a working strategy because what the victims need is support, solutions, and we are going to work on those solutions, in addition to presenting initiatives such as those we have in this House today. We will not hesitate to vote in favour of any initiative that intends to take a step to support the victims of violence, we have always done so, so that they can denounce, so that they can truly be autonomous and get out of this situation. I believe that my parliamentary group makes it very clear what your position is, but it also wants to make that invitation to the Government to go a step further, because I do not know if you do not particularly like you or we can do more than make statements. We are in a position to do something more and to properly implement the Pact against Gender Violence proposed in our amendment. On the other hand, I want us to reflect a little bit on the fact that we have to stop having room discussions on these matters. Women victims of violence expect us not to reflect and debate, but to put solutions on the table. Politicizing this situation shows that there are political colours in the fight against macho violence.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u149	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u150	Yeah, I'm finishing up. Politicizing this situation or trying to assert that there are political colors in the fight against macho violence is the last thing the victims need, what they need are solutions and our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u151	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor on the position-setting table by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u152	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you. Denialism. We talk about negationism, which moves between conspiracy, evil and fear of losing control. We have the Holocaust deniers, the climate change deniers, the terraplanists with their conspiracy theories, and we also have the deniers of gender-based violence. And on this issue, as in others, I believe that we have long gone from the point of getting on the wall because these negatist attitudes and policies lead us to the critical point where women victims of gender-based violence not only have to face their aggressor, the judicial system, too, and many times, to moral judgment, but also that they must now face these people who literally tell them that what they suffer, have suffered and will suffer many other women is just an invention, as much as an incorrect or improper interpretation. We've seen it in the previous debate about stolen babies, here's the far right that denies everything. They're so negativists that I guess for you the mothers of the Plaza de Mayo are also impostors, they didn't take their children either, did they? They deny everything, even the most obvious, although what can't be obviated is that every few hours a woman is raped and every week several women are murdered, and that's only the part that comes out, the most obvious and wild part, the part that comes out of the underground world and comes out to statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, only during the state of alarm, in a period of three months, five women and two children have been killed in this state for gender-based violence. And do you know what would be the worst thing about this whole denialist movement that says that violence has no gender? Let us get used to hearing it and have to hear it in the mouth of political representatives. The serious thing is this, and the serious thing is that already, despite the indignation that provokes us, it does not amaze us, because when phrases and ideology like these get stuck between the crevices of normality we unconsciously lower the list of what in a healthy society should be considered unacceptable. That is precisely what this far-right is pursuing, raising debates on rights already conquered and which has cost so much to build. The worst, the worst, is that if we do not stand on the wall, we will come back to a point in terms of women's rights, people's rights, because that is what it is, after all, in which we will return decades ago and flout everything advanced, and then that entrepreneurial right will have achieved its purpose, which is nothing but to make gender-based violence invisible. The good quotes that manage to cross the threshold of history do so because they never lose effect, and this of Simone de Beauvoir is one of them: Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will suffice for women's rights to be questioned again. These rights are never taken for granted. You must remain vigilant all your life. And it is true that they have never ceased to be questioned, undermined or limited, but now the bet is to deny the biggest: there is no gender-based violence. And from there everything falls by the weight of the most indecent possible. For this reason, for all these reasons, we will support this non-law proposal today with our vote, because it is necessary, because gender-based violence exists and because machismo kills, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, machismo kills, and also intends to make invisible the death of thousands and thousands of women. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u153	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to everyone. Gender-based violence exists and is violence and is also gender-based. It is the violence that is given by men against women with very specific characteristics and in sufficient quantity. Is there violence without gender-based motivation? Yeah. And? Where is the problem with gender-based violence? I therefore believe that having to go up to this rostrum to say this again, as public representatives, must give us thought, in the same way as having to present a non-legislative proposal like the one we are now debating is scandalously worrying. Can you imagine in Germany defending a non-legislative proposition that there was a holocaust, or in the United States that said that the rights of people of color were invaded or that there was racism, etc.? As a previous warning, I would like to note that those who ignore human rights, those who deny authorship and cause of murder, etc. are being fought against. Like fascists and totalitarians who, by chance, often coincide. But, said this, give them pulpit, propaganda and gold minute, either. My group is not going to waste a minute talking about those who destroy the consensus and built for freedom and human rights. Those who act in this way do not deserve this Congress to dedicate a GNP to them. Because they talk in another stadium, they're in another political galaxy. It is another political language, it is another vision of the social and the human that they have, and it is such a distance that separates us that for us neither exist nor are politically legitimized. Mrs. Olona, this is not a soap opera. It's not about going up here to do an opera performance worthy of Actors Studio. Because to equate the circumstantial, casual, and exceptional with the unfortunate usual, in addition to falsifying, is immoral. To denounce something, first you have to believe it and you have to give it the size it has, but why does this happen? Authors of prestige emphasize that some groups choose to deny reality to escape an uncomfortable truth. A whole segment of society often struggling with the trauma of change turns its back on reality in favor of a more comfortable lie. That's negationism: uncomfortable truth, comfortable lie. The truth is, it's men who kill, not women. The truth is, they do it because they're women. The lie says that it is also the reverse and that they are comparable. The lie says that most of the complaints are false. The lie says they're feminist inventions. To make speeches that advocate that laws against gender violence are based on the criterion that men are murderers and, in principle, we are guilty and criminalizing the fight for equality of women and also of many men, calls into question a macho social model, anchored in criteria - which are not values - that make this situation tangle. I've never been assaulted or questioned for it. As a man, I have not even felt a hint of guilt because the assaults are women, the assaults are women. What more does an assailant want political organizations to question what he has done, to shudder and give a patina of disbelief to the suffering of so many women. Doesn't that sound bad to you? Do they dislike women's demands or the questioning of the status of human male power? Scientific questioning bothers. It has always bothered and democracy too. What if they can walk mine on the basis of my code by punishing the dissident, the disobedient or simply the other. We want a society free of violence, of all violence, but to end violence first we must recognize the existence of violence, and gender-based violence, as it exists, must be named. There is and is specific and needs concrete measures to combat it. That is why there have been state pacts, there have been institutional work, there have been women's struggles to defend their rights as well. In conclusion, Mr President, we will support this initiative, but it is a shame that this has to be brought here. To question and deny the obvious, the universal, the consensual, the democratic is pathetic. Though well thought out, the terraplanism of some is what is pathetic. Although that terraplanism is fascist. Then it goes from being pathetic to being terrifying. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u155	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Denying gender-based violence is simply denying reality, but the consequences of doing so are extremely serious, implying legitimizing that structural violence, including murder, which, by being so every year, suffers thousands of women and, above all, leaves the victims helpless. However, that the extreme right denies gender-based violence is not out of ignorance of reality, but simply because they do not consider it a problem, because they agree with that historically unequal power relationship, which discriminates against women and must therefore be considered a violation of human rights. Nor should we be surprised by the flag of that extreme and ultra-Spanishist right, which is precisely the denial of rights, whether those of women, homosexuals, immigrants or the nations of the Spanish State. We are not surprised, but we are disgusted and therefore we agree that it is necessary to combat that discourse of hatred and to defend with nails and teeth the individual and collective rights of all. That is why - and I conclude - I would like to draw attention to two recent events which, in our view, constitute a violation of rights by members of the Government. On the one hand, the PSOE's Transfugo argumentary signed by Vice President Carmen Calvo; on the other hand, the recent call for the Government Delegation's awards against gender-based violence to doctoral theses that exclude the theses presented in Galicia, violating linguistic rights and discriminating against our researchers. Defending women's rights against the ultra-right that denies it...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u157	It has to end, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u158	I'm done. ... It means defending all the rights denied, including those of trans people, also those of Galicians and Galicians to express themselves in their language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, if you had any doubt that there is a negationist speech, today you have shouted at this rostrum, so, ladies and gentlemen, we already know how we should stand. Since 1998, when the first report with recommendations from the Ombudsman came out, it was collecting international recommendations and recognizing the obvious - except for some - that gender-based violence, which is perpetrated against women simply because it is so, exists. For the first time, the extreme right in this Chamber, I think it has been said with fifty Members - it was not well heard when it was speaking, I think it has been said with fifty Members - a denialist speech is allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, involution is risk, recomposing consensus is our obligation; not a step backwards. We cannot allow hatred to be articulated over our rights; this country can resist racism, homophobia and machism. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not deny our rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u161	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Berja, we are going to support the non-legislative proposal against the negationism of domestic violence and, as Mrs Sabanes has already said after the speech we have heard from the spokesman for VOX, there is no doubt that we must support it. I replace Laura Borràs. She could have done a much better intervention than I did, because years ago she contributed with a chapter to a book entitled New masculinities, in which, in line with her non-law proposition, she explained that it is not only a subject of macho violence, it is also a subject of macho discourse and, as has been seen, of negationism. We therefore believe that the project must be supported. Of course, we want the Government to be urged to implement the measures, and what we have not just understood is that this is proposed by you, who are the Government. In 2017, a State Pact was adopted which included 290 measures on ten axes; they have been implemented just over 25%. You support the Government, your parliamentary group is part of the Government, you have a ministry for equality, and you have a vice-presidency rank, so it is good that you urge yourself to implement these measures, but I would tell you to approve it. We are pleased to urge you to do so, but please yourself and, whether this motion is approved or not, apply it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u163	Thank you so much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u164	Good afternoon, or not; I'd rather say not good afternoon. The truth is that I spend some time preparing my speeches - I read, I take dates, I work go - and I was not prepared to hear the barbarities I heard this afternoon in this Chamber. I'm ashamed I'd go home. The only thing I can tell you is that they're not from the world. We must go now, because this is unbearable. [[Applauds]] Let's see, that there is no gender in violence?, that there is no gender?, that there is no gender in violence? No, no, no; you have no shame and you have not read either sociology or anthropology or even international official documents. [[Applauds]] She will be very advocate of the State, but of the reality on the street and of the theoretical formulations that explain what happens or has no idea or knows them and false them. Look if we are left-wing and we are clear on the subject of freedom, which I had pointed out to me: always - I will read it - it raises doubts to combat the possibility of expressing ideas contrary to mine. Chomsky said: If we do not believe in the freedom of expression of those we despise, we do not believe in it at all. And he kept on, so he wouldn't hurt anyone. Yes, I certainly despise your approaches, but no, I'm going to Chomsky's, I despise you. I kept looking and came to the paradox of Popper, that is, before negationism, I did not have it clear; we are the ones we think should talk about everything and always. But then Popper brings you in and says: no, no; paradox of tolerance. To combat intolerance, tolerant people must be intolerant of intolerance, because, if not, we will never be able to speak again. And you know what happens? That I thank you extraordinarily. You do not give opinions, you have brought to this House - and for the second time, after the babies, which has caused my face to fall of shame - fascism. [[Applauds]] I thank you, I have no doubt, I will fight you; I have no doubt whether or not we should fight your ideas, of course, because, do you know what happens? That they're endangering women's lives. One thing for the government: gender-based violence? Hey, things by their name: sexist violence. [[Applauds]] I'm sick of hearing gender-based violence; it's not, it's macho violence. Therefore, what I was saying to them, that is, the twenty - one women who have died at the hands of their partners, ex-partners or similar relationships, hear, pure chance. The herd, the rapes, the assaults, the insults, the public humiliation: that's nothing!, isolated facts! It is women's fault, listen, that they have not realized that all this is reactions to their actions: but how do you dress?, but where are you going?, but why do you drink? And you, you! - and now I address the women of VOX -, what happens to them is that they are crossed - to see if they know what intersectionalities are; if not, I leave them a book and read it to them -, I repeat, they are miserably crossed by their class status. That's what happens to them! [[Applauds]] If it were not for that, they would fully understand what it is to be considered property, not to have the same rights as their companions. Not all men are aggressors, indeed; many of my party and many of the left are not, indeed; they have done the internal work of recognizing which social system allows people like you to laugh at gender violence, and that is what I want to finally send to everyone who is listening to me. [[Mrs Olona Choclán utters words that are not perceived]] You laugh! They laugh at us, they laugh at our ideology, but do you know why that happens? It can be for two reasons, and I would like you to answer which one of them is: for evil or ignorance, for inculturation. Read a little, that your Spain in black and white, your Spain of bulls, your Spain of the feminist section - woe!, female, forgiveness; feminist already we would have liked - is over! It seems a lie that in a space and time we have been able to coincide, because I begin to doubt that they belong to the category of people. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u165	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u166	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I will start with names: María Concepción Jandro, Manuela Iglesias, Rosa Navarro, Lorena Dacuña, Clara Exposito, Ana María Morillas, Alina Mocanu, María del Mar Castro, Manuela San Andrés, Concepción Fernández, Mónica Espinola, Paula Méndez, Karina Andrés, the initials EGT, Annick Chenut, a woman residing in Esplugas whose name we do not know and María Belén SRA. These are the twenty-two victims of macho violence in what we have been through this year. These names must be added to more than a thousand women's names since 2003 and thirty-seven children's names also killed by macho violence since 2013. Behind these names were lives; lives with stories of their own to which macho violence ripped away the hope of a future. And I say sexist violence and I will say it very slowly to see if VOX understands me at once: sexist violence, because they are crimes that have nothing to do with DNA, they are crimes committed by the structural inequality that exists between men and women. [[Applauds]] And who denies that, who denies who is guilty of these murders - listen to me well the ladies of VOX and the lords of VOX - who denies this again kills them, again hits them, because nothing can make sense of these deaths, but only their memory can help us fight so that we do not have to regret more deaths. Those who deny the truth of past violence are complicit in future violence. [[Applauds]] And I have no problem looking into the eyes of the ladies of VOX, because no matter how much they shout, no matter how much they try to intimidate and frighten us, the feminists will have us very much ahead. The Socialist Group is bringing us a more than timely PNL against the negationism of macho violence. I say more than opportune because, as we have seen, the negators of gender-based violence, the ladies and gentlemen of VOX, are sitting in this Chamber today. And what is more serious, they are partners of other right-wing parties, also sitting in this Chamber: People's Party and Citizens' Party. Yes, these two parties have had no complexes to ally with the negators of macho violence. This very Thursday, in the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction, a VOX deputy again denied the violence of macho violence, just now, when we just left behind a confinement that has become a real hell for the victims of the violence of macho violence. The data say this - I repeat, the data -: 8790 people arrested for male violence during this confinement, but you are wrong to say that neither the UN nor the Council of Europe nor the WHO nor the UNESCO nor so many international organizations are right, that the reason is only yours and they are dedicated to voicing and voicing that violence has no gender. Nothing more timely than the words with which our Minister of Equality responded to this deputy of VOX: It is an insult to these victims, an insult to Spanish democracy. This society - also many of its voters, VOX voters - has long known that gender-based violence is rooted - I repeat - in structural inequalities that we have to combat. Spain has been a pioneer in the fight against macho violence. So proud that their lordships of VOX, so many flags, so many bracelets. Recognize that our law against gender-based violence saves lives. Get out of the way for the things that really matter, because this country has a progressive government, with a Ministry of Equality at the head that will not only not allow male violence to be denied, but will continue to walk, and will do so with pioneering laws, such as the law against sexual violence, which will make Spanish women more free. It is a pity that Mrs Álvarez de Toledo is not here today, also very much given to frivolize with this kind of violence. Looks like it's something transverse to the right. The same VOX deputy who denied gender-based violence this Thursday said that this government does not care about violence against homosexuals and children - let us finish - the same government that is going to promote a law on LGBTBI rights, the same government that is promoting a law for the protection of children, two laws, by the way, to which his party opposes. Let's see if it's gonna be you guys who don't care about violence...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u167	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u168	I'm done. Let's see if it's going to be you who aren't worried about violence against homosexuals, children and women. Let's see if you're going to be the violence yourself. And I end up showing my support to all the women who are at the head of this progressive government and who are suffering from the macho violence day after day, encouraged by the right. To Irene Montero, to Carmen Calvo, to Beatriz Gimeno, to all the women of this progressive government: what you are doing is historical and you are not alone. Always with you, comrades. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Berja Vega, do you accept some of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u170	We don't accept any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u171	Okay. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u172	We are now discussing the motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa, concerning the Government's position on the repression of political dissent in the Spanish State. For the purpose of defending the motion and the amendment tabled, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u173	Thank you. Good afternoon. This motion is the result of an inquiry which we made a few months ago to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Marlaska, whose answer was characterized by no self-criticism regarding the questions we put to him. You, in the PSOE, often argue that the increase in independence is due to the policies that the People's Party did in its day. Some reason you're wearing, but that doesn't automatically make you an alternative. As such, today they would have the opportunity to start repairing some of the attacks against our people that have fallen deeper, starting with the police charges of October 1. That day in Catalonia we remembered it as a huge popular victory, but it was also a trauma for voters who suffered the assaults and beatings of police and civilian guards. A thousand were wounded that day, zero convicted police officers and three police commanders ascended or decorated: Mr. Gozalo, Mr. Pérez de los Cobos - then I will return to him - and Mr. Trapote. That is the message that the Spanish State - not one party or another, but the Spanish State - sent to Catalan society: a thousand wounded result in zero convicted police officers and even three ascended police officers. But has any Spanish government repaired that aggression? No, no, In response to our question, Minister Marlaska based his defence on what we put forward citing some international indicators on democracy in the Spanish State, but the fact is that those charges were criticized by UN Special Rapporteurs, by the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and by various NGOs such as Amnesty International, the World Organization against Torture or Human Rights Watch. We are not just asking the Government for such a remedy on 1 October, but a series of measures in relation to actions that have already taken place with the PSOE in power. We ask, first of all, that the Congress should rule on the freedom of demonstrators who, eight months after the demonstrations against the Supreme Court's ruling, remain in pre-trial detention: Ibrahim, Sharaf, Mouschine and Dani. We also ask you to stop using rubber bullets, which have already been banned by the Catalan Parliament and, consequently, in the Catalan police, the Mossos d'Esquadra. On October 1st a ball like this - this very one of the charge that took place at the Ramon Llull College - emptied an eye to Roger Spanish. [[shows a rubber ball]] Then, in last autumn's protests it was also four people who lost sight of one eye and one who lost a testicle by the use of this weapon already forbidden - I insist - by the Parliament of Catalonia. We also call for clarification of the role of the Ministry of the Interior and the police forces in cases of infiltration, such as the one that was shown to have been attempted in our party, or in the so-called Operation Judas, whose intention is the criminalization of independence and which meant the arrest of Jordi, Alexis, Edu, Guillem Xavier, Germinal, Ferrán, Xavi, David and Clara. This week we knew that four more people were being investigated: Rafael, Caral, Esther and Sonia. A couple more points call for a review of the actions of the police forces in the light of the Istanbul protocol. In the Spanish state, the police are ill-treated. In the Spanish State, the police torture. Examining the police forces in the light of this protocol endorsed by the United Nations would be a first step in combating these practices. Finally, we call for the repeal of the digital gag law, approved with the votes of the PSOE and with an incomprehensible abstention from the Podemos. Finally, this is a motion designed from Catalan independence, because we want to denounce, as we did in the interpellation, that we are not considered an option anymore, but as the internal enemy to be shot down. But we could add that many of the threats that are coming upon us are not coming upon us alone today. That police forces act aggressively, with anger, with authoritarianism, with corporatism and covering up abuses is a problem for the whole of society in the Spanish State, not only for Catalan independence. Uncontrolled police forces are the germ of fascism, as the army was in its day. If you continue to decorate, if you continue to cover up these abuses, if you continue to think that for the unity of Spain everything is worth looking elsewhere, the path of the Erdoganian regime will no longer be reversed. The only amendment before us is by VOX, with a kind of grotesque exaltation of bad police practice. There were people attacked, that can't be denied by anyone. We ask him to be condemned, to be repaired, and they even ask him to be rewarded, to be congratulated. But this exaggeration hides something more worrying; they say it to drum and platter, but you, without saying it, do likewise. The problem is that you are voted by the people of the left, who want to be alternatives to the right, and instead in police matters there is not a single thing that distinguishes you from the gentlemen who have presented us with this amendment to the whole by exalting police violence. There is no willingness to make any change that makes them different. And it is worth me, for example, the case of Mr Pérez de los Cobos, who was dismissed a few weeks ago. Was your career damaged by being involved in a torture case at Euskal Herria? Was your career damaged by being responsible for the police charges on October 1st? No, in that you agreed; he was then harmed by his disagreements with Minister Marlaska at the time. Finally, we presuppose the vote of the right-wing parties to our motion, we presuppose the vote of the PSOE and we do not know what United We can vote for, although we believe that their people surely share each and every one of the ten points of our motion. It is an uncomfortable motion, because it dulls the discourse of the progressive majority that supports the government, because it highlights the existence of political repression in the Spanish state with PP governments and also with PSOE governments. But to continue talking about dialogue and not to contemplate one of the measures here is, in our view, a great hypocrisy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u174	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the VOX Group, Mr Salvá Verd has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u175	First of all, thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity I have been given. It's the first time I've been up here; it's my first intervention. I'd like to start with one thing. Since there's been talk of stolen children, which is the worst of all crimes, I'm a victim of stealing a child. It's this, a civilian guard. [[shows a photograph]] [[Applauds]] How did they steal it from me? In an ETA attack, he was burned alive His name is Diego Salvá Lezaun, along with his partner, Carlos Sáenz de Tejada, killed vilely by the criminal gang and assassin ETA. [[shows another photograph]] [[Applauds]] This is stealing a life, because, as Clint Eastwood said in the film Sin Pardon, when they kill a person not only they kill what they have, but they kill what they would have had if they had lived, that is, they kill him twice, and this is what happened to me. Perfect, that's what I meant. And now, speaking on this subject, I can say one thing to the spokesman who has spoken before. He talks about police charges, and what I'm going to tell you is one thing: Look, ladies and gentlemen, in police charges the police act to maintain order, to maintain the Constitution and to maintain peace. There was a real burden on the CDRs, on the independence forces in the demonstrations that I personally remembered a lot to the kale borroka of the Basque Country and Navarra that I lived in the 1970s and 1980s; it was nailed. The most serious of all was the takeover of the Prat airport, which put a lot of people at risk, as many planes approaching - planes carrying more or less regulated fuel - had to go to alternative airports. This undermines the safety of thousands of people. Do you forget that the intervention of our State Security Forces and Corpses was made to curb sabotage campaigns and attacks that were being prepared by the so-called CDRs and their friends, the ERCs, against state institutions or against the placement of explosives on the AP-7 highway - this reminds the ETA a lot, but a lot - and spilled oil to cause circulatory chaos, especially at the passing of the imprisoned politicians, when they took them out of Catalonia to judge them at the National High Court? For this and for many more things, the VOX Group shows its absolute and unconditional support for the State Security Forces and Bodies that intervened in Copernicus and Icarus and Judas operations; they have our unconditional support. What we do ask is that the medals be awarded to all the national police officers who were there. Above all, from here, I want to give a huge hug to a policeman who was broken by two vertebrae; that is, the protesters were little angels who took the cobblestones and what they had at hand, burned containers, broken glass, etc. I mean it was a disproportionate thing and it looked like a western movie, exactly the same. Finally, we urge the Government not to grant pardon to any of those sentenced by the Supreme Court for the proceedings. The pardon cannot be configured as an instrument at the service of breaking the essential principles of our rule of law and the Spanish judicial system. It is one of the most serious episodes of attack on our democracy. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u176	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor on the position-setting table by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u177	Thank you, President. It began against Basques, spread against Catalans and Galicians and today reaches virtually any territory of the State. Sadly, at Euskal Herria we know a lot about repression. Spain has always found a way to justify the repression in the eyes of those who do not want to see beyond: at all it is ETA in Euskal Herria, at all it is violence in Catalonia, passing through everything are insults, exaltation and apologia in any territory if you sing, tweet or express yourself against the State and its untouchable powers. In Euskal Herria, for a long time, showing solidarity with prisoners, fighting from a youth organization or defending workers from a union was a crime. Yeah, felony. In my country, ladies and gentlemen, you could be a member or leader of ETA without even knowing. For years, when the police kicked you down at four o'clock in the morning, put your family in jail, incommunicado you for five or even ten days, with the terror of torture, and sent you to prison for years was the fear of every night for thousands of people. It didn't matter what you did or didn't do, because all the independence activists on the left were in the macabre roulette of repression for being so and any night I could touch you. I believe that many people in this State still do not fully understand the extent of the repression that has been carried out under the pretext of the fight against terrorism. More than 10 political parties with fully public and even institutional activities have been illegalized, resulting in over 20,000 people not being able to run for election with Bildu because they were contaminated in 2011; it was enough to have run in previous elections to be contaminated. More than 20,000 people are de facto illegalized. Newspapers such as Egunkaria and Egin have been closed, in which I worked and which, on the order of Judge Garzón, was closed and their officials imprisoned for twelve years. It was an illegal closure by the European courts, which said it never had to be closed. Similarly, social, internationalist, youth and human rights organizations were illegalized. The isolation and dispersion of hundreds of prisoners, hundreds of miles away from their families for decades, has been the daily normality in my country and, unfortunately, in this it is still. Even dirty war and State terrorism, which is still unpunished, were waged. That is why we are well aware of the cost of dissenting in this state and of the importance of feeling alone in this. That is why, comrades and comrades Catalans, I assure you that we will always be with you, because we know well the suffering that the repression generates and we know what it hurts to feel that they do not understand you, that there is no one supporting you. We'll always be there. Now, in 2020, this government has the opportunity to put an end to all this, to move on to history as the government that finally completed the eternal democratic transition in this state. Because, ladies and gentlemen, yes, there has been a lot of suffering in my country, a lot of damage, too much. Fortunately, ten years ago we began to write a new phase in the history of our country, a phase to build peace and coexistence. It has cost a lot, but political and social actors and, above all, Basque society have made a huge effort to start closing wounds, to recognize each other, to empathize with each other; to recognize and empathize, and I assure you that it is not easy. We therefore believe that it is time for this State and its Government to move forward on this path as well. For this it is important to give truth, justice and reparation to all - and I say to all the victims that this conflict has caused for decades. Also for those of ETA, yes, because in EH Bildu we also assume that the violence of ETA generated damage and pain, much pain, and that these victims have as much right as any other victim to find spaces of truth, justice and reparation. We hope that this exercise of recognition will come for all of them, also for the forgotten victims of state repression because their pain is as licit, as intense and as deep as that of the rest and because their rights also assist them. I ask this Government to act with a high level of vision and historical responsibility; to abandon the recipes of the past and act as a State respectful of political and social diversity; to put an end to repression in Euskal Herria, Catalonia or any territory of the State; to take that path and then, only then, we will be able to close the wounds that are still open and painful today. We are prepared to do so, and we hope that this Government will be prepared to do so too. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u178	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u179	Thank you very much, President. We share with the initiative that in Spain there is a political conflict in relation to the different national senses of belonging; a political conflict also in relation to the different demos existing in the State; and we share with the initiative that, in Catalonia, this conflict is inconceivable since it has been treated, almost exclusively, until recently, as a matter of public order, with the Police, with the Criminal Code, with the Criminal Procedure Law and with the General Prison Law; and that this has led to an overflow of this conflict, repressive exits, loss of democratic quality, political instability, erosion of the international image of Spain and, in Catalonia, a widespread disaffection towards the institutions of the State. [[The lady]] But the question at the moment is what we should do in the face of that conflict, look forward or look back, gamble for a new time that gives way to the intransigence and repression or recreate ourselves in the past and question the Minister of the Interior; amplify the unbearable environmental noise of the right and the far right and its uncivil rhetoric in the face of this new time. Part of the initiative that we discussed and the debate that preceded it, in our opinion, looks back and, in certain passages, puts on an equal footing completely different facts, since one thing was the majority and legitimate protests against the Supreme Court's ruling on the case, and another very different thing, the serious public order riots carried out by a minority and in which numerous arrests were carried out not only by the State Security Forces and Bodies but also by the Mossos and the urban guard. On occasions, neither in the previous debate, in the interpellation nor in the initiative, is a fair use made of the data provided by a report by the Observatory of the Criminal System and the Human Rights regarding twenty-two arrests in which it found the use of violence, when it extrapolates the violence practised on those twenty-two arrests to many others that occurred during the serious riots to which it referred, and, of course, that all the cases were attributable to the State Security Forces and Bodies, when, according to that same report by the Observer, of those twenty-two arrests examined, ten were carried out by the Mossos, one by the urban guard, five by the National Police and the rest by unidentified police. It could continue with more examples of repression that are cited at the hands of the State Security Forces and Bodies, in which we also consider that there is an economic use of the truth, such as judicial citations by roadblocks without mentioning that numerous police certificates have been made by the Mossos; or the mention to the police station of Via Laietana, which refers to the current repression of Catalan independence, without prejudice to the fact that we consider that this police centre should be re-signified as a centre of memory of the repression carried out systematically during Francoism; or the use of rubber balls by the State Police, which is mentioned as if it were only produced in Catalonia and only against part of Catalan independence, when it is an operational mode that is practiced on a police basis throughout the rest of the State and by those same police forces, which, on the other hand, we reject for its serious consequences and recommend its replacement with less harmful antidisturbing material, as has already been done by the Mossosos - it has also been cited by Ertzinza. I'm finishing up, President. Our Parliamentary Group, PNV, believes that we must settle down in a time of dialogue; and this must consist of policy at this time in relation to the inflamed conflict of identities that we live in. It is now time to bring policy to the field of utility, to seek solutions, which does not preclude consideration being given to some of the issues that need to improve the provision of police services under the Ministry of the Interior in relation to citizenship in general and Catalonia in particular, and we will therefore call for a separate vote by points of the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u181	Thank you, President. This of the persecution of dissidence in Spain should go to the commission of myths and legends; it is the same as if I raise a motion for the cessation of the bigfoot hunt or for it to stop exploiting the gnomes. The dissidents persecuted in Spain do not exist, there is no; there is no persecution of dissent in Spain. I do not understand very well how a normal Government does not say right now that this is an independent fabulation; a normal Government would not consent to the sowing of doubt on public servants. On the other hand, we have a government that has a vice president who says that, in fact, there are political prisoners, that the police went to give sticks and asks for a commission for the wounded. The vice president of the government says Otegi is a great guy and therefore the police is bad. They want to talk about dissent the gentlemen of the CUP. I have made an effort and sought dissent, and I think I already know what they mean. Let's talk about dissidents. Dissidents are the ones who are going to work to be able to live and can't because pejos disguised as Arlequin of the CUP impose strikes on them. Dissidents are the neighbors who come down scared from their homes with their children because rich CUP kids are playing revolution burning the streets. Dissident is a trucker who wants to work, but he can't because the convergència shrimp kids want to play to cut highways and Torra will inaugurate the coercion. They don't work - the 'cups'-, they already said here: they wouldn't come to Congress to work; they'll charge, but they'll be burning the highway so the trucker can't circulate. The dissidence is to be a judge while the 'cups', lined with public money, paint your house to threaten you. Dissidence is to be a soldier and save lives in Catalonia during a pandemic and that a CUP councilman call to cough you in the face; by the way, the only contribution of this party during the pandemic; it must be by a sort of corporatism between viruses and bacteria. If there is a dissent, it is all those men and women who want to be free and equal Spaniards in Catalonia. Dissidents are my fellow citizens who are being escorted and those who paint targets at headquarters or attack the business of their families. Dissidents are the councillors of Lérida de Ciudadanos, of the PSC, of the Popular Party, who here the boys of Arran - who are the youths of the CUP; these cute little Arlequin dresses - point out in public photos in Lérida so that they know where they are. [[Shows a poster with photos]] Let's point them out - says the cartel -, these are the real dissidents in Catalonia of that party, that party and mine, who break their faces for freedom in front of these extortioners who are the youths of their party. [[Pointing to the seats]] [[Applauds]] What dissidence is it that attacks the tourism of which thousands of hard-working families live to pay taxes with which their wages are paid? Look, another dissent. [[Show a sign]] Dissident is the driver of a tourist bus to which you refer - again here, your nice young people? Saying you have to burn the buses. Well, whoever has to work on this with you wandering the streets, that's a dissident. Dissidents are the police and civilian guards whose children coerce and point out; police and civilian guards who endure constant insults by the nationalist conglomerate. You, gentlemen of the UPC, live from the taxes of the society to which you coerce; you are not dissidents, you have the face of adamantium; you are a political parasite attached to the system, an opportunistic parasite that attacks the freedom of those who pay you. Gentlemen of the Government, you should come out here and amend the plan not only to the dissidents of the UPC, but to Vice President Pablo Iglesias and confront those who come once again to insult the police and the Civil Guard. Now, when I'm done, go up the stairs and come back to my seat, as is normally the case, some nationalist deputy will dedicate some improvisation to me and tell me that from Malaga - in a derogatory way and with that xenophobic tupilla, as if I were a folk creature wandering around here - I'm talking about Catalonia. Well, I'm gonna tell you a story and I'm done with this. When the Second Spanish Republic was proclaimed, Francesc Macià declared the Catalan Republic, that is, the newly created Republican Left already gave a coup d'état, as we know they are experts 'golpologists'. The provisional government of the Second Republic, made up of great people, by the way, sent a minister to negotiate with Macià and this minister said to him: Hey, Francesc, why instead of a coup you do not proclaim an autonomous government of Catalonia and call it Generalitat, as that agency of the Crown of Aragon that collected taxes in Catalonia? And Macià, delighted with the idea, postpones the coup, proclaims the Generalitat de Catalunya and is its first president, not 121, the first. I'm done, President. Well, this minister who had the idea of creating the Generalitat was called Fernando de los Ríos and was from Ronda, Malaga. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u182	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Mr Botran Pahissa asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u183	Yes, Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u184	I would ask the Bureau, how sensitive it has been on other occasions...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u185	Based on what article you're asking me to say?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u186	Article 71.3 of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u187	Please state the explicit mention of the reference to which you wish to refer.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u188	He had made virtually no reference to the text of the initiative and had devoted himself in his speech to disrespecting the people we exercised as Members of this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u189	Mr. Botran, it's not a replica shift. Mr. Botran, you ask me to speak... [[Mr Botran Pahissa speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Botran, you don't have the floor. You are asking me for the floor for allusions and I ask you, please, to make reference to the concrete allusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u190	He's made reference to our so-called social background and they have no fucking idea... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u191	Mr. Botran, thank you very much. [[Mr Botran Pahissa speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Botran, you don't have the floor. Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. The BNG will support the motion put forward by the CUP because, as we have denounced in previous interventions, the State's response to those political forces that we do not share with its Constitution and its 78 regime does not coincide with that of a truly democratic State. That repressive response, which comrade Albert Botran illustrates in the case of Catalonia, is present in a very obvious way in Euskal Herria and Galicia, precisely because at this moment we are the sovereignist political forces the only ones that we really question, in theory and practice, the regime of the 78 post-Franquist out of the pact with the last managers of the dictatorship; precisely because we are the sovereignist political forces that demand democracy, republics and sovereignty for our nations; and precisely because the sovereignist political forces are the ones that we defend, the only ones that do so in practice, a fundamental collective democratic right as the right to self-determination. It should be recalled that the right of self-determination has been in the Charter of the United Nations since its foundation and in subsequent covenants, which literally say that all peoples - all peoples - have the right of self-determination. It should also be remembered that the Spanish State ratified these pacts and, in spite of this, instead of respecting this right, it pursues it and, in spite of this, members of the parties that alternate in the Government are allowed to say that the right of self-determination does not exist - literally - or that it is not in any European Constitution. Let me read to you article 7.3 of the Portuguese Constitution: Portugal recognizes its right to self-determination of peoples and independence. It recognizes the right of peoples to self-determination and independence, their development and also the right to insurrection against all forms of oppression. It will be that in Portugal there was a revolution against fascism and here a transition agreed. I conclude by reaffirming that the BNG defends Galicia's right of self-determination not only because it is a right of our nation, but also a necessity to be able to decide sovereignly on our affairs and thus also promote development...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u193	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u194	...that dependence at this time denies our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u195	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u196	Madam President, Mr Botran, of course we will support your proposal. Look how late we have been; we have talked about official secrets, official secrets in which we defend ourselves in order to prevent investigations into cases of corruption, state terrorism; we have talked about stolen babies, macho violence; and all this shows us that in Spain a transition has not been carried out as we were painted after 1978 and that, send the right or send the left, there are still large contingents of what is called the deep state, the deep state, both in the judiciary and in the military, police, prosecutor's office, the state's attorney. He said that regardless of whether he sends one bench or the other, they continue to maintain the same conception. But note that when we talk about issues such as macho violence or stolen babies we can find some complicity on the left, but when we talk about territorial conflict, no; when we talk about territorial conflict it's the same as whether you send the right or rule the left, because with respect to the territorial conflict in Catalonia there are only Spaniards. I only see Spaniards, like that one said. It's just like one another. That's why I want you to think about it. I obviously share everything you have planned, but we cannot count on the left. The Spanish left is more Spanish than left, and the Catalan left I fear it is sinning to be more left than Catalan. Keep in mind that the repression against the Catalans, as it was also against the Basques, is indiscriminate; the same Civil Guard that makes certificates, the same Prosecutor's Office that tunes it to you, the same segments of the judiciary... It's exactly the same package. I would like to remind you that the Catalan political prisoners have been convicted of embezzlement, that the Euroorders who have been sent to Brussels, Scotland and Switzerland have also marked the corruption box. That is, the same attestations, the same police force, the same prosecutor's office, the same judiciary. And I venture that in the future will come many more cases of repression against dissent - and I say well dissent - against Catalans, dressed in corruption. Any councillor, any mayor, any public office of any independence party is at risk of his case, with a report from the Civil Guard, a prosecutor who fine-tunes you and a judge who follows him acritically, becoming a cause of corruption. All this I am saying is a speech that is mostly accepted and understood in Catalonia. You've already seen that here when we talk about this subject with non-Catalan forces, they don't understand anything. Even the view of the facts of the Spanish media is not in line with reality. Therefore, it is as if we lived in two different galaxies where there are no points of connection and, therefore, what is explained and what is reasoned has nothing to do with it, but in Catalan public opinion it is a majority speech. That is why I appeal to you to keep it in mind, to keep in mind that dissent is the same, to be seen as a strictly political cause or to try to dress as corruption. I believe that Catalan public opinion will not understand whether you have a double speech; whether you within Catalonia are more Catalan than left and outside Catalonia are more left than Catalan.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u197	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u198	It is really sad that the comrade of the Citizens' Group has to base his intervention on how the comrades of the CUP dress, instead of listening to the complaint they have come to express in this Congress of Deputies. All solidarity. [[Applauds]] Political repression, whether they like it or not, continues in the Catalan countries. We continue to suffer repression the anti-fascist, republican and independenceist political dissent. Obviously, not those of the 78's regime or those who defend it. Of course not, but the independenceists, antifascists and Republicans. When we go out to a demonstration we always start from insecurity. We never know if at any time any police will decide to go against us and open a judicial process, even acting from pacifism or from non-violence. Do you know how many of my colleagues have court proceedings open? A lot. And you know what they were doing when they decided to repress them? For example, to stop a eviction, to mobilize for the reduction of university fees, to mobilize for freedom of expression, to organize for the independence of the Catalan countries, to defend the ballot boxes. And you know what? That repression in the Catalan countries has multiple formulas to act by combining between them. In many cases it is police repression in situ: fucks, rubber balls. By the way, know that they are illegal in Catalonia. This should perhaps be repeated because they seem to have no problem mutilating people with rubber balls; something we have seen in different spaces like La Junquera or at the airport and in the different mobilizations we have been doing. In some cases it is to scare in order to demobilize, i.e. to have to spend an entire afternoon at the police station simply because you have stopped an eviction, or to have to be outside the police station waiting for a colleague of yours to leave simply because he has mobilized and because a police officer has been given to report it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u199	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u200	In other cases it is a question of selling false news in the media. We've seen this in Operation Judas. We saw how before the mobilizations, by sentence, expressly in order to demobilize us, decided to sell to the media that there were a number of CDR activists who turned out to be terrorists. Then it was proved to be false, but it was intended to demobilize us, and now, just yesterday, it was decided to reopen this cause. Therefore, from this rostrum I would also like to show our full solidarity to the comrades who are suffering this operation Judas and for whom we must continue to mobilize. In other cases, families are ruined, they are forced to pay such large amounts of money that only really rich families could afford to pay. This same week our colleagues Josep María Jové and Lluís Salvado have to pay 1.7 million euros. It's called easy. This is exactly what it does to ruin us, it's a systematic repression, but you know what? That we're still mobilizing. Others have been forced not to leave their municipality for burning a tire, for example. Cases like this have been Tamara Carrasco's and we continue to mobilize. Others have been forced to flee their country for having defended the ballot boxes, for having guaranteed the right to vote, for having organized politically, as is the case with our General Secretariat Marta Rovira, which is in Geneva. And you know what? That we will continue to mobilize and organize ourselves. Others are imprisoned without a fair trial for having guaranteed the right to self-determination, for having mobilized in favour of self-determination, as is the case with Carmel, Dolors, Jordi, Joaquim, Josep, Raul, Charaf Ibrahim, Dani and so many others. And you know what I tell you? That we will continue to organize and mobilize ourselves until justice is done at once. I'm done. All these cases are some cases and are also some methods of which we have come to suffer as a systematic repression. That is why I am addressing the Government in the end. They have to understand that if they have a clear intention of resolving the political conflict that, by the way, has already been seen with the interventions of the BNG and Bildu, which is a conflict of the Spanish State not only Catalan, they have to act, therefore, they have to assume their responsibility, they have to go to the root of this repression and face it. Either they face it or they'll be accomplices. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Rosique. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u202	Madam President, if I may, I would like to be able to make a point of order before entering the substance of the matter. In no company, in any organization anywhere in the world would people be allowed to attend meetings and not respect the agenda, would they be immediately drawn to attention and, if they did not obey, would they be punished. I would like to express here my disagreement with the fact that continually, outside the agenda, there are people who come exclusively to talk about a terrorist organization that existed in the Basque Country and that was defeated by Basque society and to talk about the economic and political problems that a Caribbean republic has. [[Applauds]] This is absolutely intolerable and, therefore, by exercising the protection with which the Constitution protects me so that I can exercise my rights of representation of the more than 100 000 Vice-Presidents whom I represent, I ask for the protection of this Bureau and I ask, please, that from now on the necessary measures be taken to be able to exercise the rights of representation of the citizens whom I represent with the proper conditions of respect for this institution. Thank you. [[Rumors]] 'The abuse of power is a disease, apparently incurable of the human being and, of course, that produces disorder', said Don Salvador de Madariaga, that illustrious Galician republican. Abuses are always intolerable in a democratic country and abuses exist in all public administrations; abuses exist in all security forces, in the National Police and in the Civil Guard there are abuses, there are abuses in the Mossos d'Esquadra - as has been said here - in the municipal police, there are abuses in private security companies; there are abuses of many kinds and none of them are tolerable. We must be absolutely strict in the democratization of the actions of all public administrations. It is a fundamental duty that we have with the citizenry, it is a basic commitment to fight for democratization and many of the measures proposed here are democratization measures that must be taken into account. It must, of course, be taken into account the repeal of the gag law, which allows many of these actions; it must be taken into account, without a doubt, the one known as the Istanbul Protocol, which lays down all the conditions to be followed in order to prevent abuses in deprivation of liberty; certain anti-disturbing elements which continue to be used that are outdated and dangerous must be eliminated - as some of those who have spoken before me have said - by the Basque Group. Let's remember here that an Athletic fan of Bilbao, Íñigo Cabacas, died as a result of a rubber ball shot - goian bego Íñigo -. These things must not be repeated again; strict measures must be taken to ensure that the democratic State acts and that the security forces act with absolute and strict respect for the existing legality. Says the saying that, of using and abuse, there is the singing of a real; and if we start talking about abuse, it would be wise for us all to stop abuse and start by stopping abuse - esteemed friend, Albert - of language, we stop abuse and call repression of political dissent to what cannot be such. Political dissent occurs when a person faces a monolithic regime, a regime that is not based on pluralism and a regime against which one has to plant. We are in a pluralistic State, in a State that recognizes political plurality and territorial plurality. You say there are parties that don't recognize it, it's obvious. Unfortunately, the Spanish right-wings lost what they had at the time of Adolfo Suárez, Oscar Alzaga, Herrero de Minón. That respect for political plurality, for the ideas of others and for territorial plurality disappeared. It is clear that the right-wings from aznarism have entered into a logic that is of a radical nationalism that is exactly disparate with the constitutional model and exactly identical, by reduction to the contrary, to which Catalan independence is in some way practiced. I'm just going to sum it up. There are issues that you raise with which we absolutely agree. We agree that important measures such as those you have raised must be taken, but above all, we believe that this motion has very serious problems, although you have improved somewhat on what you said three months ago in the interpellation. They no longer speak of the total continuity of the Government, but of certain continuitys. It is good for you to disarm the language, it is good for you to go that way and it is good because the other way, which implies that democratization and the fight against abuse must be incompatible or that dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u203	Mr. Uriarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u204	Half a minute, that's all. ... or that dialogue has the function of concealing repression, this strategy was practiced by Basque independence in the 1980s and 1990s. I assure you, it is an absolutely sterile strategy that brings only suffering and frustration to those who practice it and to those who suffer it. Please listen to what he said about empathizing and what he said a little while ago Mertxe Aizpurua to meet us on the road; let's find ourselves on the road as we have met many of those we think differently here and want to continue to think differently, from respect for difference and from respect for the institution. Many thanks, Madam President, for your generosity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u205	Thank you, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Botran, I don't know what you've been doing during these months of confinement, but if you'd thought only a little bit, I think you would have thought more than once of doing such an unjust and sectarian intervention as you did this afternoon, because you can't do anything about going up to this rostrum to offend the judiciary by confusing justice with repression or the rule of law with what you call political persecution of dissent; nor do you use this debate to attack our security forces and bodies, because the police, the Civil Guard and the rest of the police, including the Mossos, are neither forces of occupation nor repression as you say, but they have as their mission to defend the rights and the free exercise of the freedoms of all, their own, but also those of others. [[Applauds]] And that means that neither you nor the CDRs that you defend so much can do in the street what they want or occupy public spaces as if they were their own or skip the law or harass those who do not commune with their ideas. And that is very well known by my spokesman, Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, or my colleague Llanos de Luna, because they have suffered as well as other fellow constitutionalists in this House. That is why they are so upset by the security forces, because they protect the rights of those who do not think like you, of all those whom you want to exclude in Catalonia. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] That is why I would like to take advantage of this debate to convey on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group all our thanks and support to the National Police, the Civil Guard, the Mossos, the rest of the police and also the Armed Forces, who have given us an example throughout this pandemic and tell them that we are very proud of their work; very proud, yes, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] And stop talking about the democratic deficit, because Spain is a consolidated democracy, something recognized by all international bodies and also by the institutes that measure the indices of freedom and fundamental rights, which place us within the first fifteen democracies of the world. We may now lower some position due to the abusive restrictions on our freedoms during the state of alarm, but, despite that, we will certainly remain at the top of the ranking. I imagine that I do not need to tell you what position countries like Cuba, Venezuela or North Korea are in, of which I never hear any criticism. So, gentlemen of the radical left, lessons of freedom and democracy to the constitutionalists none. [[Applauds]] Because you speak of democracy, but of a democracy where the laws are complied with at convenience, and that does not exist, and if it does, it is not democracy. Look, Mr. Botran, you're a historian and you should know the quote I'm going to remind you of, it's from the Baron of Montesquieu, the father of the division of powers and modern democracies, who wrote almost three hundred years ago: 'Freedom is the right to do what the laws allow. If a citizen could do what the laws prohibit, there would no longer be freedom, because then the other citizens would have the same power.' I think it cannot be better defined and it is quite clear, and it is that in democracy freedom is never in front of the law, but freedom and law walk together in an inseparable way. Let's see if one day they're able to understand it. [[Applauds]] That is why this House is not to review the rulings of the judiciary nor to call into question the actions of our Security Forces and Bodies, which, as always, carried out their duty and risked their physical integrity in that week of chaos and unrest that was experienced in Catalonia after the judgment of the trial to which you referred. You seek to counterrepressive forces to peaceful demonstrators. Well, you can read it in the chronicle of any newspaper in Catalonia of those days, I read some of it: His peaceful protesters threw thousands of cobblestones, stones, bearings, acid and Molotov cocktails at the police and burned more than a thousand containers, destroying urban furniture and tearing up traffic lights and signals, which violently threw at the security forces. Is that your way of understanding democracy? Is that your way of peacefully exercising the right of demonstration? Ours, of course, we understand it differently and that is why we are going to vote against your motion. Just one more thing. Here they are only asked to comply with the law. We do not ask them to stop being independent or whatever they want, but as long as they defend it peacefully. Now, in the same way, we will not be forced to renounce our values or to cease being constitutionalists. That is why we are not going to be accomplices to that humiliating negotiating table that this government has set up. We do not impose any ideas on you, but neither will you impose yours on us, nor will Spain cease to be Spain just so that you are satisfied. I guarantee that, too. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u207	Thank you, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Cuevillas, listen to me carefully. I am Giróní, I am Catalan, I am socialist, I am leftist and I say very clearly: Spain is a democratic state. Point. [[Applauds]] We say this not just ourselves, but all international bodies. Spain is the eighteenth full democracy in the world, as well as Germany, the United Kingdom and Belgium and above most of the countries in our environment. It says Democracy Index, the most well-known independent classification, some unimportant institutions, such as the UN or the European Union, and a multitude of papers from universities around the world. Dissidence is also not pursued in Spain. Dissidence, understood as disagreement, someone's disconformity with the system to which he belongs, is not that it is not pursued, it is that it is practiced daily in this country. The disagreement is expressed democratically in the press, in the street, in this House. Disagreement in Spain and Catalonia, dissent has been the source of very important struggles to consolidate rights that are enshrined today, but you change the words. Spain does not punish dissent. Spain, like any democratic State, does not allow us to act by non-democratic means. That is not allowed, because that, Your Honor - you know very well - is not dissent, it is disobedience, disobedience, by the way, to democracy, more specifically in your case. The independence parties lost the plebiscite of 2015 and also the plebiscite of 2019. They got 47% of the votes. 53% voted for parties that did not have express independence in their electoral programmes. That they lost it was said by some of their leaders, dissidents, and took them away in the worst way - I'm sure they remember it well - and yet you dealt with unilateral independence. Is there anything less democratic than proclaiming independence after losing elections to the plebiscite of independence? Is there anything less democratic than unilaterally breaking a legality that has a democratic origin recognized by all? Is there anything less democratic than skipping the democratically approved statute? Is there anything less democratic than torturing everyone's institutions? Is there anything less democratic than violating procedures, violating the role of the opposition in the Parliament and undermining the rights of citizens enshrined in democratic laws adopted by democratic procedures? Ladies and gentlemen, is there anything less democratic than that? [[Applauds]] I repeat, Spain does not pursue dissent; democracy simply requires respect for the procedures of democracy. This motion, moreover, requires political power to interfere with the judiciary. I'm so sorry, too. I must tell you that this conception is not allowed in democracy. Parliament's transitional laws in 2017 also suffered from this so undemocratic evil. In fact, if that law came into force, the President of Catalonia could choose the entire judicial system. If it came into force, we would be expelled from democratic Europe and Catalonia would look more like a democracy than a democracy. Nor did you understand that you cannot present a president who is not in the country. They do not understand that it is not democratic for the President to reside outside the country, because he is precisely the first person to comply with the laws of the country. I repeat that it is not democratic, as I told you, its request for the Executive to interfere in the judiciary. From Montesquieu that is not considered democracy. I wish my answer could be more open; however, his language prevents me. To say that dissent is not allowed is like repeating that there was no freedom of expression. Mass demonstrations, not a plastic-free tree, not a stellated roundabout, not a cut-off trip on the road, not an act without screams. Is there no freedom of expression? To put it this way, you have expressed yourselves in very different ways: destruction of sieges, verbal assaults on specific people, threatening paintings not rarely signed, Your Honor; signed. Do you think these expressions respect dissent of thought? Spain allows freedom of expression and dissent, which does not allow democratic laws to be overturned. I'm done, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u209	Yes, Mr. Lamuà, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u210	"The streets will always be ours," they shouted. Ladies and gentlemen, the streets are everyone's. They broke the statute, the Constitution, wanted to subjugate justice to the executive, they have only had a minority of 47% Catalans, they point out and threaten their political opponents, they have supported the most cutting-edge and right-wing governments in Catalonia and, in the end, they have always put nationalism before ideology, even at times as committed to as many people as these last months. They have been a political force that has had more than negative effects during the process.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u211	Mr. Lamuà, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u212	I'm done, President. And I'm saying it for being kind. Here fortunately they are but a small discordant note in everything and against everything. [[Applauds]] That is why the Socialist Group will vote against. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u213	Thank you, Mr. Lamuà. Mr. Botran, do I understand that the motion is going to be voted on in your terms?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u214	We reject the VOX amendment and we also reject our own amendment, because we would like it to be voted on by points.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u215	All right, well, that's how it'll be done. Thank you so much. Having concluded this debate, I should like to inform you that the last two motions following urgent appeals will be discussed tomorrow following urgent appeals and before the report on the implementation of the House's budget for the 2019 financial year. We shall then proceed to vote on the two proposals for legislation. We'll vote in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group amending Law 9/1968 of 5 April on Official Secrets. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 138 plus 212 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 86 plus 111 telematics votes, 197; against, 10 plus 44 telematics votes, 54; abstentions, 42 plus 57 telematics votes, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u217	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. Is that what you're talking about? OF THE PLURAL, EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, SOCIALIST AND REPUBLICAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, ON BABY ROBED IN THE SPANISH STATE. [[File number 122/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u218	Proposition of the law of the Plural parliamentary groups, Euskal Herria Bildu, Socialist and Republican, on stolen babies in the Spanish State. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 138 plus 212 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 128 plus 168 telematics votes, 296; against, 10 plus 44 telematics votes, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-23-CD200623.u219	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the remaining items on the agenda will be voted on in person at the end of Thursday's sitting. While the request will be voted on by telematics from the end of the relevant debate until one and a half hours later, and for the rest of the issues the deadline for the telematics vote will be from tomorrow Wednesday at the end of the plenary session until Thursday at 11 a.m. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and thirty minutes of the night.
