ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, amending Law 3/2004 of 29 December, establishing measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions, in order to regulate a regime of infringements and sanctions. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u2	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a health crisis, which has resulted in a social and economic crisis. Many companies are suffering, and when companies suffer, they suffer jobs. There are many reasons why companies are now having a bad time, but there are some essentially. The government and we agree that one of the problems that companies have is liquidity, treasury problems, and to deal with it, different lines of work have been opened up: ICO-backed loans and some tax moratoriums, as well as social security contributions. In any case, they are timely measures and they are certainly not sufficient. There is a problem that directly affects the treasury of companies. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u3	Excuse me, Mr. Bel, just a moment, please. Quietly, please, the session has begun. And I pray that all the assistants make use of the masks.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u4	The treasury problem in many companies, especially in small and medium-sized companies and the resulting liquidity problem is not new - unfortunately, it does not start with this crisis - and it has different reasons. Someone may think that companies in the whole of the Spanish state are not sufficiently self-financed, and surely they are right. However, one of the fundamental problems that distinguishes us and differentiates us from other countries is business slowness. Business slowness is truly a scourge, a pandemic that has been affecting businesses in the context of the European Union. Almost twenty years ago, the first directive was adopted, which was transposed into Spanish law in 2004 and subsequently this Law 3/2004, on combating late payment, was amended with a reform in 2010. But the reality is that our companies, especially our small and medium-sized companies, and also the self-employed, are today less competitive than companies in other countries, because they have a serious problem, which is called corporate morosity. I'm not going to make you a data enumeration now, but I am going to give you a few updates. Under current legislation, the maximum payment period for business activities should be 60 days. According to the latest data from the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity barometer, the average payment period in business activities is 85 days and the average payment period for IBEX companies is 169 days. There are some that do, but others are reaching up to 300 days to pay, mostly to small and medium-sized enterprises. Someone might ask: if you can legally only pay 60 days, why are you paying 169 days? Is it that companies that do not charge cannot report, cannot claim their compensation or their interest in delay? Yes, they can, but these companies are in inferior conditions and trading and know that if they exercise this action that the law allows them, they will lose their customers, they will lose that big company that states they must charge 90, 120 or even 180 days. So they're not doing it. Certainly sanctioning is not the best solution, but it has become clear that when there is legislation that is not able to be punitive and there are no sanctions in case of non-compliance, this legislation is less efficient. This is what has been happening for many years in the Spanish State as a whole and also, of course, in Catalan companies. That is why we are presenting this initiative today, which I will explain briefly to you later. In fact, it is an initiative that the Democratic Party and Citizens have already presented in the previous legislature and whose presentation had already begun. The legislature ended abruptly and, therefore, this initiative was not continued. Junts per Catalunya presented the proposal again in March but suffered a small great veto by the government on a very specific issue, although this has been solved legislatively. Therefore, today we have the opportunity to re-examining a very necessary paper, beyond the fact that each of the parliamentary groups can have different amendments or views in some of the proposed aspects. In any case, I can tell you that most of the parliamentary groups have given us their vote in favour. This is very important, as it is a message to society and to all companies that there is a clear and explicit will in this Congress to establish a sanctioning regime for lateness. Now we have the challenge of being diligent in the processing of the paper. There is a lot of advanced work from the previous legislature that we must take advantage of and I would like to be able to give the message that, if not at the end of the year, at the beginning of next year, the Spanish State will have legislation and a sanctioning regime in order to be able to fight against corporate lateness. The proposal is relatively simple. We propose to amend four laws. The first law we propose to amend, the most significant and the most important of the proposal, is Law 3/2004. We should change some conceptual aspects, but the most significant thing is that a sanctioning regime must be put in place. Here we are open to accepting amendments. Some may think that the penalty instead of 3000 euros should be 4000, but we can agree; others will think that a slight penalty should be a serious penalty, we will also agree absolutely. The most important thing, however, is that we establish this sanctioning regime. This is Article 1, the most substantial part of the proposal. There is an article 2, which for us is also important, which I understand can generate more discrepancies. This is the amendment to section 17 of the Minority Trade Organization Act. As you know, this law allows for a pact between the parties to be reached in the case of non-perishable products that exceeds the sixty days provided for in the other legislation. An effort should therefore be made to reach those sixty days and amend article 17 of Lorcomin. Article 3 that we propose in the current draft law may seem witness, but it refers to the amendment of the Unfair Competition Act to make it a disloyal competence to engage repeatedly in business lateness. Late payment to your suppliers is an element of unfair competition. Finally, Article 4 - I recognise that there is also some concern; in fact, the Ministry of Finance has sent it to us because of the budgetary impact it might have - proposes to amend Article 80 of the VAT Act. We are also prepared to agree. I am aware that this is an ambitious proposal, but it is what we believe is necessary, first of all, to adapt to a judgment of the European Union's Court of Justice in 2017, the Di Maura case, where some considerations are laid down. Clearly, Spanish legislation is not adapting to the content of this judgment. Therefore, those limitations to the correction of the taxable base in the event of not charging invoices should be amended. I am not saying that it has to be the text we are proposing, but we should incorporate some amendment to Article 80 from our perspective. I repeat, it is a draft that contains some of the consensuses that were forged during the previous parliamentary term. It does not intend to be dogmatic, as we are open to all these changes. However, we must be aware that an element of competitiveness of our businesses, of our small and medium-sized enterprises, is essentially that they can collect and, consequently, pay in time. This will greatly reduce their need for circulating capital and give them the capacity to be much better financed; ultimately, to be more competitive. That's up to all of us. I'm running out of time. I do not ask you to vote in favour because the majority have already offered it to me, but it is true that among all of us that we are rebooting it today, let us not be short of those legislative proposals that do not end up between the period of amendments and the presentation, because we will have a part of our companies and, therefore, a part of the jobs that depend on these pending companies for what we legislate in this House. In any case, thank you very much for the support. That means that it is a matter of concern and that we need to legislate and remain in our hands. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. In the course of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The specific measures taken in this context by the Plural Group appear to be aimed at strengthening the mechanisms to ensure compliance with Law 3/2004 of 29 December, establishing measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions and establishing infringements and sanctions. However, the content of the precepts states that the invalidity or nullity of the clauses that violate the limits of that law must thus be declared by a judge. If what is really intended with this initiative that Mr Bel has explained with his usual solvency is that certain limits are not exceeded in the postponements or that they are punished with high interests, what must be prescribed is that the clauses that violate it in this respect are taken as not incorporated and that the agreed deadlines and interests cannot violate the limits set out in the mandatory precepts of the law. Thus, when a creditor has been imposed an interest payment period contrary to the statutory requirement, he or she may simply apply to the judge for recovery of his or her debt, once the legal maximum period is exceeded and in accordance with the minimum interest established by law. On the contrary, the creditor is called upon to appeal to a judge in order to declare beforehand that the clause is void, or to file a complaint for the debtor to be punished, which the creditor normally brings without care. A separate mention deserves the intention of creating a specific body, a new observatory to monitor and report on lateness. In our view, it is absolutely unnecessary for this new bar when this work already does or should be done by our public administration through the Ministry of Economy, the Bank of Spain or any of the existing agencies or institutions. In conclusion, it is important to recognize as a positive aspect of this consideration something unrelated to its main object, such as the amendment of Act No. 37/1992 of the Value Added Tax, in order to facilitate the procedures to prevent employers from having to deal with the payment of VAT resulting from unpaid invoices. This does seem to us to be a proposal that rewards compliant entrepreneurs and tends to minimize the damage caused by the growing lateness and mistrust of the market. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u8	Thank you, ma'am, President. Good afternoon. We will vote in favour of this proposal for a law against lateness with the following reflection: in essence, lateness is often a manifestation of abuse of power by those large companies - it has been mentioned before that IBEX companies are often much more late than the small and medium-sized ones - which do not pay their suppliers, which causes smaller companies to be much more damaged and suffer from a lack of liquidity. Another abuse of power is what we wanted to talk about today. You will recall that last week we called on the Government to denounce the systematic blockade of any parliamentary initiative aimed at talking about the monarchy and the issues concerning the Government in relation to the monarchy. Minister Darias put herself in a challenge. He said: Because we are in a free country, you have been able to intervene here today. To what we reply: We will see if these words, minister, are transformed into a real commitment that you can talk about everything and that you can control the exercise of power, the exercise of the task of the Executive. And we have already seen, the challenge has not been overcome. The motion we should be debating today has been blocked by the Bureau of Congress; once again, an initiative on the monarchy is blocked. Today we also had news that a bill presented by two other groups... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u9	Mr. Botran, we have an agenda set at the Spokesman's Meeting and today what we are debating, because in fact it has been agreed at the Spokesman's Meeting, is the consideration of a proposal for a law on lateness. That is why I ask you, please, to address the issue under discussion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u10	I have started by saying that precisely lateness is a manifestation of an abuse of power, as is the fact that there is a person or even a family that is above the law. That is not about any democratic principle, let alone the fact that there are elected governments that will protect you and that the Bureau of Parliament will even try to block any initiative such as the motion that we should be debating today in this session, concerning the government's relationship with the king's escape, now emeritus, Juan Carlos. This has no other name to censor. With this will be already eleven or twelve times when initiatives of different parliamentary groups, not only mine, have been blocked by the Bureau of Congress for referring to a question that is taboo. Why is it taboo? Because the Constitution of the Spanish State places someone...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u11	Mr Botran, I have to ask you, please, to take up the question of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u12	President, using my turn to talk about these issues I think it is the least I should do to reject the censorship that is practiced at the Congressional Bureau regarding any relative initiative...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u13	Mr Botran, we are not going to enter into a debate with the Presidency. I ask you, please, to stick to the question of the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u14	What we are asking is to be able to discuss any question relating to the exercise of power in the Spanish State and also to the monarchy. There are already eleven or twelve times when we have been banned from processing... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u15	Mr. Botran, I've called the question twice. I would ask you, please, for the third time to stick to the question of the agenda. The debates and the agenda are set out in the Board of Spokespersons and the point that we are currently discussing is the proposed law that refers to lateness. So, if you want to finish your shift, I ask you to stick to the question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u16	It is an important question of lateness, and we have passed it on to the group promoting the bill because it seems to us to be a good proposal and we want it to come forward. But it is equally important to control each and every crime that the Spanish monarchy may have committed with the money of all of us... [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u17	Mr. Botran, I've called the question three times. If you do not want to continue talking about this item on the agenda, I will be forced to take the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u18	I must speak of what I think I must speak of in this circumstance. [[Rumors]] If you, each and every one of you, Members of Parliament, had systematically blocked a parliamentary initiative, I think you would be doing the same as me: denouncing... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum. Rumors]] Quiet, please. Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u20	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. We are discussing the issue of lateness, an issue that has already been discussed in this House and the amendments in the Commission have even begun to be dealt with and, for various reasons, have remained on the stand by. Today, it is the Plural Group that raises this issue, as it did in its day in the Senate, and brings to the House this bill to alleviate the lateness in commercial transactions and which sets out a series of measures that appear to capture the glove of the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity. The main objective of this proposal for a law to strengthen the fight against late payment is to defend micro-enterprises and self-employed entrepreneurs against late payment of debts, both of companies and of the various public administrations. The proposal for a law proposes the introduction of various amendments to the provisions of Law 3/2004, which set out measures to combat late payment, which in turn was amended by Law 15/2010, which basically consist, in addition to specific aspects on definitions and deadlines, in the deepening of transparency and compliance with payment deadlines, with regard to the creation of the State observatory on late payment and the creation of a regime of late payment offences and penalties. It also envisages the amendment of the Law on Minority Trade and, against all odds, we are surprised that its group has included a VAT amendment which, in principle, has nothing to do with this proposed law and that, while it may affect the competitiveness of SMEs, we believe it is more due to a claim by some particular business association. It should have room in fiscal matters and not be introduced into this decree, but we will study it. My group shares the objectives of the proposal, but, although we will vote in favour of it, we also believe that, as it is drafted, it can generate more problems than solutions and ultimately not achieve the desired objective. So, a posteriori, we will try to improve it with several contributions. On the one hand, it introduces in a redundant way the figure of the self-employed entrepreneur, which in the text of Law 3/2004 is already included in the concept of enterprise. On the other hand, the creation of the sanctioning system aims to transfer to the Administration, also to the autonomous administrations, the responsibility to pursue the lateness in private commercial operations, under a certain regime of ex officio verification or on complaint of individuals; moreover, it must be made by the employer concerned, almost the only one who knows the situation. It would certainly have more procedural and substantive legal meaning if it were presented in court for the settlement of the alleged dispute, in accordance with the rules laid down in this regulation, which observes measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions, in commercial-private relations. In this regard, a question should also be asked. A sanctioning procedure only for private companies? And what about the administrations when they are the ones who fail to meet the deadlines, if they are themselves the guarantors of the persecution of lateness? We all know that there are administrations that do not meet the average payment deadlines, and they should set an example. Therefore, it is not very consistent for a public administration to pursue lateness when it itself fails to do so. This group believes that measures may be necessary to establish a sanctioning regime that serves as a deterrent to the deliberate delay in payments, but it also believes that these measures need to be proportionate and non-discriminatory. In addition, it should be strengthened with specific outreach campaigns, in order to try to change the awareness of those who unnecessarily extend the deadlines. At best, we should look at those countries that do not apply a sanctioning or coercive model, such as Ireland, which has done what it has done to implement codes of good behaviour in payments and has a number of certifications as good payers that make it possible to improve, for example, in access to credits. In addition, it should be borne in mind that late payment occurs in very different circumstances for companies, which in turn depend on different commercial transactions. This should also be taken into account in establishing an effective and efficient system. In commercial transactions between private companies the inefficiency of the legislation is not only due to the existing regulation, but also to the difficulty in its implementation, because there are many SMEs that do not pay in time, they often postpone their payment commitments because their customers also delay payments and, in the end, it is a vicious circle. We all know that in the face of such a conflict, if half-denunciation and sanctions are applied, the commercial relationship can end. As I said, we are going to support the consideration of this proposal for a law, but we believe that it needs to be improved because as it is currently drafted, and with the exception of some aspects of the existing legislation that need to be more precisely defined and brought into line with the provisions of the European Union, it seems that it is due more to a series of things than to a certain and efficient content in order to tackle the problem caused by the excessive delay in the payment of commercial transactions, by introducing into the framework of inter-company relations a purported punitive action by the public administration of complicated nature, in our view, in private relations. We understand that, of course, late payments must be eradicated; that late payments are one of the issues of greatest concern to women entrepreneurs; that it is necessary to comply with payment periods and avoid additional costs that may impact on prices, because all this is essential for the business fabric to maintain its competitiveness, for its financial capacity not to be compromised and for productive investments to be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u22	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always gratifying to come up to this rostrum to talk about the problems that really affect the Spaniards, and the fight against lateness is a very important issue that many of them really suffer. Therefore, given this circumstance, we can only thank the proposing group, the Plural Group, for this initiative and anticipate that we will vote in favour of this consideration. As your lords will know, in Citizens we do not care as much who proposes a law as if it is good for Spain and if we manage to address this matter with seriousness and rigour, leaving aside populism and ideological agendas, the law will undoubtedly be beneficial for our autonomous and our companies and, ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, we will find a well-worked law that can be good for our economy. Mr. Bel anticipated it earlier. Citizens have been bringing a law to Congress for more than three years, which had the same object as we discussed today. If you turn to that text of the law of Citizens against lateness, you will find several points in common with the text that we have before us today. We are talking about taking into consideration a proposal for a law to put an end to a great injustice that has been taking place for too many years in our country and that causes many of our big companies and administrations to live off the credits they get abusively from their debts to SMEs and self-employed people. It is intolerable for administrations and large companies to be financed at the cost of not paying invoices from small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed in our country. There are many companies and many jobs at risk because of the defaults and we must offer, once and for all, a solution to the weakest links in our business fabric, with which there is precisely laziness. We cannot lose sight of the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that in an atrophied economy such as the one we have in Spain the measures of Law 3/2004, which aims to combat late trading, have been left on wet paper. The time limits of this law are not met either by the companies or, which is more bloody, by the Administration. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a problem, a big problem; a problem caused by the old vices of bipartisanism; a problem that keeps millions of families in our country alive and it is our duty to work to solve it. Administrations and large enterprises take advantage of our small and medium-sized enterprises and our self-employed, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is a condemnation for them. They have to deal with these deadlines and they are subject to treasure tensions that they cannot bear, not to mention the psychological tensions and the anxiety of not knowing when they will charge - you come back tomorrow - not knowing how they will get the sustenance for their family and with the jobs of their employees always in the air. And all this having done a job and having done it well. There's no right, ladies and gentlemen. As has already been said here, non-compliance with deadlines is a very serious problem for Spain as a whole, the cost of which amounts to EUR 850 million, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to this proposal for a law. We cannot be fooled; this is not a problem of charging before or after - which also - it is above all a lack of equal opportunities in the market, in which they always pay the same. It is an aberration that is ruining the business and tranquility of many families in our country. To the information already given by the proposer, by Mr Bel, I add the data of the Association of Self-employed Workers, which reflect the alarming data of non-compliance with the statutory payment deadlines for SMEs and self-employed persons in their commercial operations. The conclusions of the Spanish Association of Self-Employed Workers, ATA, are devastating. The three administrations, the local, the regional and the national, do not comply with legal payment periods established in thirty days. Local governments, which are for the majority of self-employed, double this deadline, paying their bills in more than 65 days on average, and large companies, which have more than a thousand workers, are the ones that are most delayed, and take more than 105 days on average. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to ask ourselves whether we are prepared to allow small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people in this country to continue to finance large enterprises and public administrations for free, and we have to ask ourselves why none of the previous governments - neither that of the PSOE nor the previous ones of the PP, nor the previous ones of the PSOE - have done anything to solve this. For decades, the delay in the defaults has become almost a feature of Spanish character, in a form - let's say - of picaresca, and it is a picaresca that has no grace. Morosity breaks down businesses and ruins families. From our parliamentary group we hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this time we will work seriously on this issue and that we will not, as has happened on previous occasions, find compromise amendments to enable an agreement between the parties trying to exceed the legal limits of payment. From Citizens we will not allow an agreement between parties to stay above the law when one of them has no power in the negotiation. This, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed a real social policy that makes life easier for the humble, and there will be Citizens. I'm done. We are sure that we will be able to discuss this and many other issues throughout the process of this law. We will come to the debates with our proposals so that the result is the best possible and we can thus help so many small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people who face the problem of lateness day by day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Mr. Bel, it's a good thing we agree today, but I can't help but think that for you, as for me, this today sounds like what in our country has a very precise expression: sant tournem-hi. Sant, let's go back there, Mr. Bel. Welcome back to this bill. I am a Member since 2016, four legislatures, and, unfortunately, the issue on which this debate revolves is not, as a matter of fact, anything new, as has already been pointed out. Four years later, it has been impossible to put an end to one of the biggest scourges of thousands of SMEs and self-employed workers: lateness. Today, for the third time, we reaffirm that we must put an end to commercial lateness, because we must put an end to a problem as simple as the time-limits for payment to suppliers, mostly SMEs and self-employed workers, are dilated without control over time. It is imperative to put an end to an informal third-party financing mechanism, which is used too often by large companies that abuse their power vis-à-vis small ones, all in a context where there is already too much comparative aggravation between them. Let us be aware of the enormous power exerted by these large companies, the vavenes of the Bernabéu stage, the rotating doors and their power exercised at the blow of BOE. Unfortunately, in this House that spirit has been poured out on too many occasions, legislating to the benefit of a few and to the detriment of many. A prelude example of this exercise of power we find in the lateness that today occupies us and that should also worry us. This is confirmed by the latest figures provided by the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity, which will be repeated several times this afternoon. The average payment period for IBEX companies is 169 days, when the law limits it to 60 days. Let's stop here and think about it. Can we continue to allow IBEX 35 companies, which charge their customers 58 days, to pay 164 days, triple the legal deadline? And that the public administrations, when their limit is 30 days, do it on average in 82. It is not very complicated to imagine the direct consequences of all this, the financial asphyxiation of thousands of SMEs and self-employed workers who cannot have resources that belong to them by law, the unjustified and asphyxiating tension of their treasury. The solution has already been said, a sanctioning regime that discourages this practice, as several countries of the European Union already have; a new framework that de facto limits 'except agreement between the parties', which is only another way of legalising abuse of power. We hope that this proposal, beyond the parliamentary support of the majority of the House, as it seems necessary to start once again the parliamentary process of the law at the point where the presentation of the old legislature left it, will also be approved in the shortest possible time. New data from the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity: IBEX and the continuous market have outstanding payment obligations of more than €60 billion. In the context of the current economic and social emergency, ending late is an essential element of viability and competitiveness, injecting this liquid - 60 billion, I repeat - into the economy, which is done soon and which is done well will have a multiplier effect on the number of companies that, otherwise, will close, go to competition without ERTE or ICO to save them. Let us hope that this time the ghosts of the Bernabéu stage will not accompany us and the big parties of old bipartisanism will be able to legislate once and for all for greater justice for SMEs and self-employed workers. Thank you very much. Good afternoon to everyone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u26	We have the experience of the last crisis, where lateness was triggered and that had a severe impact on the SME network because the moment customers stop paying, companies end up breaking. The problem of lateness was already a problem in the past crisis and caused a brutal closure of SMEs. During the past crisis, 11% of small and medium-sized enterprises were destroyed, we had an average payment period between companies that doubled the European average, and we reached a maturity ratio close to 13.5 %. The stagnation of the productive fabric had a very negative impact on the employment and income of households. A 26.9% unemployment rate - a historical peak - was reached, 775,000 households had no income earners and 29.2% of the population - more than 13 million people - were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. This is the stage to avoid at all costs. There were already many SMEs broken in the previous crisis precisely because of the problem of lateness, because the law was not respected. The law is supposed to punish lateness. If you don't pay by the deadline, that has consequences, interest of delay, etc. What happens is that in most commercial contracts this is systematically violated. And why is this happening? Because there is no sanctioning regime that causes late businesses to automatically pay by fines for late payment. We will not allow the same to happen again, and the State must continue to take steps to ensure that the payment chains do not break. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal is in favour of the sanctioning regime called for by SME associations, which is the pillar of this bill. It is a reality that the problem of late payment mainly harms small and medium-sized enterprises because it is the large ones - several spokespersons have already said this - that they later pay, and we mean large ones that exceed 50 million euros of annual billing. Of course, the considerable turnover figures of this type of company make it easier to delay payment to their suppliers, even to breach deadlines. It is mainly large companies that retain payments to SMEs. And one SME, an autonomous, has a small financial muscle, so if three or four suppliers retain a payment, they can go bankrupt perfectly. What big companies get by doing this is financing themselves at the expense of their own suppliers, mostly SMEs and self-employed. In short, and very briefly, in our country SMEs are financing IBEX companies, SMEs are financing big Spanish capital. This is tremendously unfair and harmful, because let us remember that our productive fabric is characterized by the high profile of SMEs, which account for 99.8% of enterprises and account for approximately 61% of gross value added and 66% of total enterprise employment. They are significant magnitudes that give us a vision of the importance of this collective which must therefore be the protagonist in the reconstruction phase. That is why we have to take up the matter, and with the establishment of a sanctioning regime we believe that the high rates of lateness can be significantly reduced. The results of similar measures in countries in our environment prove the effectiveness of the measure. France, without going any further, managed to reduce the average payment period by 22% in the first four years since the adoption of its sanction scheme in 2009. However, the Confederal Group believes that the stick - the sanctioning regime - is a positive step, but that, in addition to the stick, carrots must be offered. That is why we suggest that a soft line of credit be opened, so that companies can meet the cash requirements, ensuring that the economic machinery is well greased precisely to avoid bankruptcy and prevent the economy from draining, drying. That's why it would be important to inject money, to avoid collapse. I'm done. We believe that the eradication of lateness is a necessary step towards a sustainable and inclusive economic model, with a diversified productive fabric that generates added value and quality employment. It is an opportunity not to let our companies down, to ensure their viability and competitiveness and, ultimately, it is an opportunity to implement a measure that benefits society as a whole. It is also true that this bill includes some point, which has also been mentioned here by several speakers, which does not have much to do with the problem that is being addressed, such as the VAT issue. We will already have time in the negotiation process to delve into these issues, but the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common will vote in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law establishing measures to combat late trading in order to regulate a regime of infringements and sanctions. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Junts per Cat, today you are bringing to this House a proposal for a law that seeks to introduce a sanctioning regime for companies that fail to comply with the payment deadlines set out in Law 3/2004, which sets out measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions. And they do, according to their motivations, in the spirit of standing up for the defenders of the companies that suffer from this lateness. But this in itself is a paradox and you just have to look at the list of cases of corruption that ride on the shoulders of the heirs of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia: Palau, ITV, three percent, Adigsa, Pujol... [[Applauds]] With a little luck, they'll remember you. And all of them starred by political leaders who have been extorting companies for decades, demanding commissions for the award of millionaire public contests, and are talking today about sanctioning entrepreneurs. Catalonia, which assumed to be a community immune to corruption, is the one that stands out most for the nepotism of those who have been at the head of the Generality for years, using its privileged position to demand bites from companies and finance the party or thicken personal accounts in tax havens. [[Applauds]] However, we will support the consideration of its proposal, as it will serve as an instrument for introducing, through amendments, measures that SMEs and self-employed people really demand and need, preventing individuals, corporations and even governments from taking advantage of them to enrich themselves or to perpetuate themselves in power. And that is that lateness is a serious problem in our country. The lack of liquidity, the loss of income caused by late payment prevents business growth and leads to the loss of millions of jobs. That is why establishing a sanctioning regime is the only way to achieve greater compliance with the law, avoiding bad practice in payments. But here is the question of the million, proposers: who will be in charge of punishing the late? Proponents, will the Autonomous Communities or will the Government be the implementing arm of the sanctions? I'm so sorry. The main non-compliance, i.e. the Administration, will be the one responsible for sanctioning. And the sanctioner, will he also be punished? Let us not forget that in Spain, even if a public institution is delayed in paying its suppliers, it will continue its operation normally, and precisely, proposers, Catalonia is one of the public administrations that later pays its suppliers, because our kingdom of taifas is something much worse than a bottomless well - seventeen different wells - because our model of State, which you politically defend, is not economically viable. The late public administrations continue to pay the payroll of their necessary workers, but also of positions appointed to the finger, advisors and plugged in by the parties that have governed and govern us, whose aim is to keep their chiringuito inserted into an elephantic Administration, and this inefficient and unsustainable model strangles the private sector with bureaucracy, taxes and barriers that hinder and prevent its consolidation and survival. [[applause]] And the same applies to our public sector companies, which do not stop receiving their corresponding subsidies through the State General Budgets regardless of the level of arrears or which have accumulated losses of years and years, ultimately relegating their suppliers. On the contrary, in the real economy, the one emanating from the entrepreneur, from the early one, from the one who exposes his heritage, his small heritage, the rules of the game are very different, because the SMEs and the autonomous who present problems of solvency to pay to their suppliers, sign their death in a long and tedious competition process. That is why we could say that public morale is the subject of protection and subsidy in Spain. However, private default is penalised by the market itself, as any private company that uses it as a financial strategy is forced to disappear. It is therefore time to put in place a sanctioning regime that could be applied to public delay in order to eradicate definitively the abuses to which small businesses are subjected by the Administration. [[Applauds]] And let us not forget that the slowness of the administration in Mr Zapatero's second parliamentary term caused the disappearance of thousands of SMEs and autonomous PlanE, paying me. Like the Tax Agency publishes lists of debtors, the Ministry of Finance should also publish a list with the identity of those politicians whose management turns public administrations into morosas, because the discipline demanded of companies must be accompanied by examples of politicians and the administration itself. [[Applauds]] And here I could dwell on the issue of bank bailout to which not a few Members of Parliament allude and who declare themselves to be anti-systems, but who live in the system, and who pay their payroll on time from the institutions, not to mention those who have already become part of that caste of which plagues spoke. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, the bank bailout and its consequences for SMEs, self-employed and working class was another clear example of a bailout to the disastrous efforts of politicians turned into managers of savings banks, financial instruments at the service of the autonomous communities for their unlimited waste. [[Applauds]] We saw people who, without a business path, began to lead financial institutions, making decisions, who more than decisions were business adventures, and approving pharaonic projects for the benefit of their friends. And don't be mistaken, the Spaniards paid the bill of corrupt politicians at the head of politicized savings banks who used the taxpayers' money unconsciously in a boast of playing bankers. [[Applauds]] In the previous crisis it was already the self-employed, SMEs and micro-SMEs who suffered the most from suppliers' defaults. Everything remains the same now; crises change and governments change, but today we have the same scenario for all of them, due to the lack of liquidity and lateness as an additional burden. Being aware of this problem, the VOX Parliamentary Group already presented in April a GNP urging the government to inject liquidity into SMEs and self-employed people by paying public administrations their debts to suppliers, although the Social Communist Bank said no, it rejected our initiative, because it was unambitious. Well, look, from ATA they claim that many self-employed people are forced to close because they cannot bear the defaults of those for whom they do work, advancing resources, materials and efforts. In order for the self-employed to no longer suffer, they must be paid for their work in time and form, and the Ministry of Finance knows a great deal about this, because it is relentless with those who do not pay their taxes on time. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, do not pretend to overshadow the problem of the Spaniards. What is at stake is not the welfare state, but Spain with all its citizens. It is urgent to put ideological temptations and particular interests aside and to resolve this national emergency in which we are immersed. Otherwise, it is certain that we will succumb to the relentless rationality of the market economy. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u30	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Plural Group brings us a proposal for a law amending Law 3/2004, which sets out measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions, in order to regulate a regime of infringements and sanctions. This initiative that comes from the XII Legislature, which we have already discussed, has been subsumed in this one that is presented to us. In this matter it does not matter the party that proposes it - and less badly because we would not know how to determine it, Mr. Bel, at least me - it matters the subject and much. Our group will support the consideration, although we do not agree with most of the content - as Mrs Sagastizabal also pointed out - but we believe that we must change the current regime, and more so now with the very critical situation in which we find ourselves. The important thing is not the slowness itself, but the causes and consequences. The main cause is the position of power of one company over another, which puts the viability of the latter at risk. The consequence is that it can affect the liquidity of many companies and, due to the cascade effect, an entire sector. In other words, we must avoid risks in a business like Spanish, with a very large number of small businesses, micro-enterprises and self-employed, but we must also consider, as our group is already doing, taking measures to increase their size. As I said, it is about avoiding risks and improving the liquidity of the system. And here we have to raise some measure more than those that are proposed, for example, that the observatory is not only of lateness, but also of liquidity, because not only the cause of the lack of liquidity are the deorbited payment periods of some invoices, there are others such as banking regulation or the closing of risk by credit insurers to the smaller businesses. Many small and autonomous enterprises are actually financially excluded from the system and we must find a solution. In this the consensus is broad. Resolution No. 29 of the Commission for Reconstruction, which proposed the adoption of a sanctioning regime, was aimed at increasing the liquidity of SMEs and self-employed people and improving their competitiveness and productivity, thereby reducing the need for many SMEs to be financially indebted. This is the goal and what we have to work on. According to the multi-sectoral platform against late payment, the average payment period of the administrations is eighty-two days, when they should legally be thirty; although the data provided by the Ministry of Finance in June is considerably lower: the autonomous communities over thirty days; the social security funds over eleven days and the central administration around thirty; and yes, the local entities over seventy-six days. Therefore, the data provided by this platform on the private sector cannot be used because we do not have real information on the average payments of private companies. We have not found how they obtain the data, we cannot know whether they are real or not, especially seeing the difference in the case of public administrations. Having that information is something that we need to solve in processing. By the way, a curiosity, ladies and gentlemen, the six autonomous communities that have the worst average payment period are governed by the left, and of the four best, three are governed by the People's Party and in some cases with the support of Citizens: Murcia, Galicia, the Canary Islands and Andalusia. As always, some do demagogy and others get results. Where we can confirm that there is a problem of lateness is in the local entities: more than seventy-six days, 2.5 times the legal deadline. This harms a lot of SMEs, so it is necessary to stop from political tactics and to mobilize the fund of the EUR 5 billion unconditioned, which the FEMP demands from the government and which Minister Montero wanted to link to the transfer of the remnants, which, as we know, provoked the rejection of this Parliament and of the majority of Spanish municipalism. We must therefore first know the reality and, secondly, reduce the payment deadlines in Spain in order to bring them in line with those recommended by the European Commission and the European Directive 2011/7/EU, not only by changing the legislation - if necessary, yes - but also by urging the government to carry out all the campaigns and promotions necessary to increase the awareness of our companies. Everything is not always resolved on the basis of laws and sanctions, even sometimes it must be encouraged. The Government must create an environment conducive to short-term payments by ensuring the necessary liquidity, because the benefits for the system as a whole of paying invoices in a reasonable time are clear: improving the liquidity of the system, less need for financing and, therefore, less financial dependence on our companies and our foreign country; trust in our business environment; positive effects on domestic and foreign investment; and positive effects on employment. On the contrary, the consequences of the lack of liquidity have already been seen in the previous crisis: cascade closure of companies, highly punished sectors that generated monopolies and oligopolies, bankruptcy of the financial system due to the slowness, high unemployment growth, distrust of our business sectors and our economic activity. The last two consequences were dramatic. Therefore, one of the first steps taken by the People's Party when it arrived at the Government at the end of 2011 was to improve the liquidity of the system for the benefits it brings and the negative consequences it has not resolved. We did so with the restructuring of the financial system, the Autonomous Financing Fund and the payment plan for suppliers for autonomous communities and municipalities, which had several years of unpaid invoices and which had caused enormous problems in the Spanish economy. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not talking about some late payment bill, but about tens of billions of euros. At the end of 2011, the Banco de España had a general government debt to its suppliers of 8.1% of GDP at the end of 2011, when it was 5% four years earlier. In 2013, in less than two years later, we returned to 5% again. The Banco de España itself estimated that the outstanding commercial debt was EUR 66.9 billion. This was not done by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's socialist government, we did in the first year of the People's Party government. At least so far, this Government is not solving the problem and in a few months the lack of ICOCOVID loans will come to an end and more defaults will be generated. We have submitted a GNP to try to make the quotas of these ICO loans more flexible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the groups that support it, do their work and solve the problems of the Spaniards. We have worked together to support the Government in many ways and to contribute our own initiatives, we will work and try to contribute to the processing of this law, as is our duty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Paniagua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marra Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u32	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of the coronavirus has changed the economic and social scene we face. It has barely been six months since the beginning of the pandemic, but they have been enough to know that Spain is experiencing an exceptional moment, unprecedented in our recent history. Faced with this exceptionality, the Spanish Government has responded with unprecedented measures; real, effective and efficient measures to preserve the health and well-being of thousands of people, but also to support our businesses, economic activity, employment and the sectors that have been most affected by this crisis. These measures have been an unprecedented effort in our history and a great challenge, ladies and gentlemen; a challenge to which the Government has responded with a firm commitment to the recovery and economic and social reconstruction of our country, but also, Mr Bel, in the fight against lateness and its consequences on the productive fabric, employment and economic growth. The extension of the ERTs, the COVID Fund of EUR 16 billion for the autonomous communities, the postponement of tax obligations with the State, the validation of ICO's endorsement lines worth EUR 100 billion, the specific plans to boost the automotive and tourism sectors, the Accelera Pyme programme or the Solvency Support Fund are real and faithful elements of the absolute priority of this Government with the productive and social fabric of our country. But also, Mr Bel, we have a commitment to reduce late payment, to ensure liquidity and financing needs at times of special difficulty, especially for SMEs and self-employed people, to cover their circulation, payment of invoices, maturity of financial and tax obligations, thus allowing their normal functioning and protecting their activity and employment in our country. That is why, Mr Bel, while we share the same objectives in this proposal for a law, I also believe that this proposal would create more problems than solutions, as the Basque Parliamentary Group has well picked up. We therefore announce to you that we will vote in favour of the procedure, but also advance you that we will bring about significant changes, substantial changes which have nothing to do with the content of the text that is presented here today and which almost represent an amendment to the whole. Allow me to detail some of them. Firstly, this proposal for a law in this case goes beyond the scope of the law which it seeks to amend, since it does not in any way regulate a sanctioning regime since it is not covered by Directive 2000/35 of the European Parliament, which transposes it. Moreover, the proposal does not refer to the guilt of the debtor's conduct nor does it assess the legal nature of such sanctions, which implies that it is technically absurd in itself. In the second point, Mr Bel, they propose the creation of an observatory of lateness, which would contribute nothing because the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism itself already has the competence to monitor developments in lateness and for what they leave out to chambers of commerce in their composition. They do not even incorporate an economic memory of their cost. Thirdly, under the Law on the Ordering of Minority Trade, the payment period is limited to 60 days for all food products not fresh or perishable and of high consumption under any circumstances, which abolishes the special regime of retail trade and, in accordance with Article 7(3), restricts contractual freedom to agree different payment periods, because, Mr Bel, postponements do not have to entail a delay, but may be the result of an agreement of wills between the parties. Those wills between the parties are precisely those that you suppress, and this would be contrary to the very case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for transposing Directive 2011/7 of the European Union, establishing measures to combat late payment in financial transactions. Therefore, Mr. Bel, once again unabsorbed. Finally, it is also inconceivable, Mr Bel, as has been mentioned here by many speakers, that the proposed amendment to Act No. 37/1992 on value added tax, in so far as it is approved, would result in an exponential increase in both the assumptions of changing the taxable base and the number of non-recurrent self-liquidations to be submitted by individuals, which would entail a significant - and I say well, significant, if not enormous - loss of collection while failing to defend the tax administration against the ignorance of the recipient to whom payment of the fee is required. Therefore, again, Mr Bel, unabsorbed. For all this, the Socialist Group firmly believes that there is a need to reduce late payment, but we also consider it necessary to explore measures to improve the payment procedure, to improve the sanctioning regime or to establish an arbitration system of late payment that is simple, agile and effective, while promoting codes of good practice that eliminate late payment. In short, effective and effective measures to combat lateness and, above all, its impact on the business fabric and on employment, thus consolidating balanced and inclusive economic growth, as the Government has been doing in recent months, because, Mr Bel, what we will not do will be to apply the recipes of the People's Party in the previous economic crisis. This crisis - said the President of the Government on numerous occasions - is not going to be paid by families, workers or businesses, and especially by SMEs and self-employed people. In this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, no one can stand behind. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, new budgets are essential for the deployment of all economic policy instruments for the recovery and reconstruction of our country, which efficiently channel the important resources that Spain has from the European Recovery Fund into key vectors for our economy, such as digitisation, the transition to a sustainable economy, the commitment to R & D+i or new technologies, support for SMEs, tourism, hospitality and the preservation of the environment; in short, for the benefit of all citizens. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by appealing to the sense of responsibility, to unity and to the institutional loyalty required of all those who make up this House as the main instrument to fight against lateness, but also for the recovery and reconstruction of our country. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marra. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/1985, OF 1 JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, FOR THE REFERENCE OF JUDICIAL INDEPENDENCE. [[File number 122/000034]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u34	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, an organic amendment to the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, for the strengthening of judicial independence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Today Citizens again present one of the great reforms pending in our country, one of those reforms that, if approved, would make us proud of all that we are in the Chamber today; one of which, if approved, would really be a qualitative leap as a country and would undoubtedly be one of the main tools or measures to combat corruption. This reform is of the organic law for the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary. We recognize that it is a profound and ambitious reform, but at the same time it is unquestionable that it is easy to undertake and, moreover, it does not cost the Spaniards any hard, but that it would save us all millions of euros in bites and theft by some politicians. This law has several contents, but the main ones are two: the first is to strengthen the independence once and for all in the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary; it is to change the system of election to return to what was said in the Spanish Constitution of 1978. And why is this important? Because the General Council of the Judiciary is a governing body of the judges, it is an organ that, among many other functions, has to choose the members of these collegiate bodies that then have to investigate and prosecute politicians for corruption, among many other crimes, also of many other citizens, but, moreover, it has the disciplinary power of the judges. You can then imagine the consequences for our judicial system of the fact that this body is elected in its entirety, the twenty members, by the politicians represented here. But we also have a new election of the members of the higher courts of justice of the autonomous communities to eliminate that designation which is partly made in the autonomous parliaments. And the second of the major changes or major reforms that our law incorporates is the selection criterion for some members of the collegiate organs of the judicial career, such as the National Court, the Supreme Court or other high-ranking officials, to say the least, who are currently appointed through free-designated posts. Today you have to choose whether you want to shield the capacity that the politicians represented here have over the judicial system or want to advance the independence of our country's justice. And yes, Spain is one of the main democracies in the world, no one doubts it. Our system, our country, our democracy is one of the twenty major democracies in the world and they recognize it internationally, such as the one published by The Economist, but there are many. This is not about whether our democracy is a full democracy or not, because it is; what we are trying to vote on here is whether we want to advance in the democracy of our system, in the independence of our judicial system or whether we want to leave it as it is. No one doubts, I insist, that Spain is a democracy, one of the main democracies of the world; well, only the Catalan coup separatists that we all saw in 2017, some unfortunately in the front row, and we saw how their idea of judicial independence was that of regulating in their self-proclaimed law of legal transitoryity where, surprise, surprise!, guess who was the one who chose the president of the Supreme Court: the almighty Mr Puigdemont, fled in a trunk; or guess who elected the attorney general of this so-called banana republic: no more or less than the government. But, well, leaving aside the totalitarian separatist coups, no one doubts that our democracy is one of the main democracies in the world. But we want to do more, we want to improve and we want to move forward, and this law and this reform is a recognition, but a clear and explicit recognition to all judges, judges, prosecutors, all public servants who work in our judicial system and who do their work every day despite the fact that some people receive pressure, who do their work every day despite the fact that they do not have the means to do so, who do their work every day despite the fact that they obviously have to exceed their working hours. Similarly, this reform is not just a reform that is pending in our country, in political or seudo debates, no, no; this reform is in the demands made by citizens on the street because, if not, you ask any of the citizens in your constituency to see what they would think if we were able to eliminate the control of the political divisions over Spanish justice. I do not know any citizens on foot who are against the reform that citizens present today. You should choose whether you want to be with that overwhelming majority of citizens or with that political minority who wants to continue sharing judges in an office. And no, this has not only been a division of judges between the PP and the PSOE, the PSOE and the PP, which have obviously been the two parties that have put the most hand into justice, but here have participated United Left, the nationalist parties, all, each and every one of the parties that have had something to say in recent years and decades of democracy. I will focus especially on the part of our reform that seeks to change the system of appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary because what we bring here today is to regain the spirit of the Transition, because in our Spanish Constitution of 1978 it was clearly stated, clearly, that of those twenty members of the General Council of the Judiciary, twelve had to be elected from among judges and magistrates, four elected on the proposal of Congress and four elected on the proposal of the Senate. It is therefore clear that the spirit of the Transition, the spirit of the parents of the Constitution, was that the majority of the members of this body were elected by the judges and magistrates themselves. In fact, it was so for a few years, until, surprise, surprise!, a socialist government, of course, changed it in 1985, with the help of other parties, of course, so that all the members, the twenty, were elected by the politicians represented in this House and in the Senate. Since then we have attended a shameful distribution of judges, sometimes even in a sloppy way by WhatsApp. But who has asked this criterion to return to the spirit of the Transition? The spirit of the Transition was not only to appeal to the reconciliation of the two Spains, but also to appeal to the reforms that were advancing our democracy. This was undoubtedly a reform of a socialist government, with the help of a conservative opposition, which carried that spirit in 1985. And since then, who has asked to return to that constitutional system? It was requested by a judgement of the Constitutional Court in 1986. The Greek report of the Council of Europe, which you know very well, calls for the majority of members of these governing bodies of judges to be elected by judges and not by politicians. But it is also requested by a recent, very interesting, judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the Polish case. And it is also evident the requests of broad layers of the sector of the judiciary and Spanish citizenship. And do you know who else has at some point called for this reform? The old parties that are delighted to share the judges. For example, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, - we already know that his word sometimes doesn't count very much -, that in 2014 he said that his commitment - I don't know if that of him or of his person - was to regenerate the democratic life and make the General Council of the Judiciary a truly independent body of government. [[shows a photocopy]] They insisted on the Socialist Party saying that it was a priority to depoliticize the General Council of the Judiciary. [[shows a photocopy]] But did the People's Party also ask for it in its 2011 election program, even Podemos, which has been forgotten too quickly - here you have to admit that you have been very quick to get used to power? that you also called for the depoliticization of the General Council of the Judiciary. [[shows a photocopy]] [[shows a photocopy]] We already know that in Podemos it has happened to say that we had to live in humble neighborhoods to live in chalets with swimming pool, to say that we had to limit the salaries of politicians to dynamite those limits of wages and to encourage and crush to be outraged because they make a splash in their house, as if it were more important the tranquility of the children of the Lords of Podemos than the tranquility of the children of any other political party. But here is a party that has always asked the same thing when judges could be divided and asked the same thing when it was not represented in the Congress of Deputies. It has asked for the same in 2015, 2019 and 2020, and I assure you that we will not participate, although we could, in the division of judges that the government wants to do again with some opposition party. What we are proposing here is very clear: neither blockades nor political fingertips; reforms to depoliticize the General Council of the Judiciary. The time has come to move forward; the time has come to comply with the Spanish Constitution again; the time has come to comply with the 1986 ruling of the Constitutional Court. The time has come not to get our faces colored every time we go to Brussels and reread the Greek report of the Council of Europe; the time has come to listen to the judges; and the time has come to listen to the citizens. We must ensure the full independence of the judicial system, and not only must we be independent, we must also look independent, and I say this because many judges work and make their sentences in conscience, even though they have to be pressured. It's time there weren't even those pressures. It is time to recognize your effort, your dedication. It is time to give them more resources and it is time to respect their decisions, even if we do not like them. It is time to put an end to the spectacle of who is responsible for the prosecution, to appoint a public prosecutor who until five minutes ago was a minister of a government. It is time to stop seeing how you divide judges by WhatsApp and it is time to stop seeing how you try to pressure those who then have to judge for corruption. I do not want to end my intervention without remembering all those public servants who have provided their services despite the harassment, despite the warning, despite the threats. And they have done so in my land, in Catalonia, but also in other lands of this country. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to judges, magistrates and prosecutors killed by ETA, such as Judge Francisco Tomás and Valiente, such as Prosecutor Carmen Tagle, the Supreme Court Judge Rafael Martínez Emperor or the Prosecutor Luis Portero. They remain a moral beacon for all democrats and we must not forget our democracy, we must not forget our history, but, above all, we must not forget that every day we can make history. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we can make history; today we can make progress in the democratic system of our country. The best thing we could do to honor all those who lost their lives defending justice and defending our democracy is, on the one hand, not to whitewash Bildu as if he were another political actor, because morally they are not, as a brave President of the Socialist Youth of Euskadi has said, and also what we could do is to support this reform to depoliticize justice. You, ladies and gentlemen, decide which side of history you decide to be on today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. The text taken into consideration by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group concerning the amendment of the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July on the Judiciary and the strengthening of the independence of judges, begins its presentation with this reminder: 'For the purpose of guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary, the Constitution provided in article 122 for the establishment of a body of self-government, the General Council of the Judiciary'. But such a guarantee of independence, even if that might be its primary purpose, the truth is that its configuration and dynamics in the seven chandeliers of the law seem more destined to the contrary, that is, to politicize justice through the appointment of its members by the General Courts and their two Legislative Chambers, the Senate and this Congress to which I address this afternoon, by the way, this autumn. This has undoubtedly been helped by the growing politicization of judicial associations, especially by the correspondence of the two main political parties that have traditionally been the majority in our democracy; a politicization parallel to the broad discretion in the regime of appointment of senior judicial officials, which has created a feeling among the judiciary itself that it is not possible to reach certain levels of the escalphon if there is no prior attachment to one of the currents or professional associations. That is, leaving behind other types of criteria such as merit and capacity. That is why, and in general terms, the content of the proposed law advocated by Mrs Arrimadas seems to me to be appropriate and plausible in responding effectively to the aim of promoting the independence and depoliticization of justice, promoting the democratization and direct election of the members of the General Council and approaching its technical definition as a genuine body of self-government of the judiciary, an independent judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, I act in line with the position that Forum has held on this issue, specifically reflected in its electoral agenda and here in Congress and in the Senate. In this regard, I would like to recall that I was the only senator - the only one - who in the appointment of ten members of the General Council of the Judiciary and six alternates, held in a plenary meeting expressly convened in late November 2013 only for that matter, intervened in the High Chamber to stand against the system for the renewal of the seventh Council of the Judiciary, still in force. The Journal of Sessions faithfully, as always, captures the very critical arguments with the then People's Party Government that I used in that session and that remain perfectly valid seven years later. I was very critical in a singular way with which I was then Minister of Justice, Mr Ruiz-Gallardón, who, in less than a year and with a loose majority of parliamentary support in the General Courts, radically changed his position and turned away from the stoning commitments made at the beginning of the 10th Legislature, on the occasion of his appearance before the respective Justice Commissions of both Houses to expose the government's objectives for that mandate. Also in the election of the quota of vowels for the General Council held here in Congress my predecessor the deputy Álvarez Sostres intervened to reject conclusively a system of election that again wants to be perpetrated now in the year 2020. That is why it is only today that we must recognize the right of those who do not succumb to the unacceptable rinsing and dangerous lures that the PSOE-Podemos coalition government is giving them, and I warn them not to fall into the trap of those who want to go to the glass and without looking into the control of democratic institutions. The People's Party has a curriculum in defense of the independence of the judiciary that goes back to the dawn of democracy, so I encourage you to defend your unequivocal vocation to apply democracy exemplaryly in the composition of a General Council appointed by the judges and magistrates themselves, given the separation that must exist between the judiciary and the rest of the powers. For those of us who believe in the Magna Charter, we must not disregard the judgment of the High Court 108/1986, which is a fine one to justify the need to move towards a strictly constitutional system in which consensus and moderation are recovered and the partisan monopoly that stifles a key institutional space for Spain as is the governing body of the judges, which guarantees the independence of the judges and the courts from the rest of the public authorities is eliminated. I would also like to point out that perhaps this would have been a good opportunity to give legal rank, and without prejudice to its subsequent regulatory development, greater concreteness and detail, the main criteria for judging performance and/or barbarism in competitions for the provision of places, and specifically in the appointment of certain positions in the highest-ranking courts, because otherwise the laudable intentions of the proposed law may become useless in accordance with the dynamics accumulated in recent decades and which can be covered in practice by the broad scope of action which gives decision-making bodies so-called technical discretion. Finally, it is appropriate to recall, as a matter of the most recent day, that the unfortunate phenomenon of rotating doors mentioned in the proposal for a law and which is intended to avoid in the judicial sphere through some of the forecasts it incorporates, is also given in the prosecutor's office, so it would be timely, relevant and of unquestionable necessity to promote similar provisions to modify the Organic Statute of the prosecutor's office. My vote will ultimately be in favour of this consideration, although, in view of the way in which the Government of Pedro Sánchez is being handled in its determination to control institutions and specifically those relating to justice, we can only hope for the parliamentary rejection of the majority that supports the Government in this proposal for the regeneration of irrevocable justice. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u39	Sweep on, good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Strengthen judicial independence? Of course, of course, that's a book. In fact, a review of the news these days shows that there is a problem. The People's Party's blockade of the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary is on the table. Similarly, Mr Lesmes' appointments - I do not know if they have read the press - which seems to be making appointments that will have repercussions within 15 or 20 years. I don't know if you saw the interview with the D.A. Navajas yesterday - very interesting - talking about the pressures of Mrs. Madrigal and Mr. Chaina. I don't know if they'll ring a bell, trial prosecutors. I don't know if you've read today in the Diario.It's a very interesting article degenerating one to one who are the members of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, which says that of the thirteen members eleven are conservative, but this is no coincidence, I'll talk about this later. It is precisely these gentlemen who will have to resolve the Gürtel case, the Púnica case, the Kitchen case, the case of the fugitive, the Emeritus king. They will have the last word, and you can imagine what it is. In fact, two weeks ago, when we were also talking about the Attorney General's Office, in a proposal that brought about the same formation, we saw that, obviously, the division of powers is one of the foundations of democracies and an example in liberal democracies. How particular and paradigmatic is being given in the Spanish case and what various reports mention, such as the Greek report I have mentioned earlier, European judgments, the UN rapporteur and the European Commission itself when they speak of a problem of political pollution in the election of the General Council of the Judiciary in its various recommendations? is that the political pollution is not that the government party is, no, no; there is a political pollution of the ruling party and its allies. This problem not only occurs in the General Council of the Judiciary and, therefore, in the Supreme Court, this problem also exists in other bodies, it exists in the Central Electoral Board - I don't know if you remember Mr Betancourt -, in the Office of the Prosecutor, in the Constitutional Court, in the Court of Auditors, in different bodies. I'm saying it's not casual. Mrs Arrimadas said: Spain is a consolidated democracy, because it is said by a British weekly. It seems that he does not read that British weekly when he says that the Spanish monarchy is dirty and that it is a disaster, there he does not set an example. But, of course, if they tell us that there is a problem of political pollution in the division of powers, they cannot tell us that Spain is an exemplary democracy. There is some problem, but not because we say it by the independenceists, but because it would be a contradiction what you yourself are defending. Beyond entering the proposal, which I say we are not going to vote against, we are not going to oppose it, we believe it is a patch, because it is not a technical matter. Obviously, merit and professionalism must be prioritized in advancing the judicial ladder in order to maintain that independence, but the problem is structural. He said before: we must recover the spirit of the Transition. No, man no, you have to call an exorcist, if the problem is in that spirit of the Transition. The first problem is that the judges at that time went from night to morning from being Francoist judges to being democratic judges, a court of exception such as the Public Order Court became the National Court. That's part of the problem. The second problem is the distribution, yes, and that we share, that this distribution has politically contaminated not only the decisions of the Council, but also indirectly those of the high judiciary. I was asking a judge recently to explain to me a little bit what the problem was and why it had resulted in this situation, in all this conservative control in the Supreme. He explained it to me in a simple way. He said to me: During all these years, every time the Socialist Party had to elect magistrates, it chose magistrates for their prestige, for their baggage and that they had acquired that baggage over the years, so they usually entered much older. Sure, they'd retire soon. On the other hand, the People's Party every time it had to elect a magistrate elected young judges and magistrates in whom that loyalty would prevail more and who would one day retire, today they do so with seventy-two years. That is, there's conservative control for a while. And do you believe that this proposal will achieve judicial independence? Impossible, this mess is not solved if structural, comprehensive measures are not taken, and therefore in the time I have left I will propose some that can go this way to achieve judicial independence. Firstly, I believe that rotating doors should be banned; no time limits - two years or ten years - for the return of politics. No, the one who passes from justice, in all areas, be judges and judges, prosecutors, lawyers and lawyers of the State, who cannot return. If they go to politics, they can't go back. Secondly, to articulate a system, as in other States, which also gives priority to experience, apart from merit. I know there is some way to do that, but it would be good to strengthen the way in the areas of law, of people who have had experience in law, in the academy or in the prosecutor's office. Thirdly, it would be necessary to put an end to all special jurisdictions such as the National Court, which is not a specialized jurisdiction, no. We already know him well in Euskal Herria - we have the Altsasu case - and they also know him well in Catalonia now, because the CDRs are being tried for terrorism. Those emergency courts must be brought to an end. Such promotions, which are not merely based on an objective rigour of valuation, by an allocation of points or whatever, must also be eliminated. I'm finishing up, Madam President. I believe - and this one will please the magistrates and magistrates - that the salaries of the magistrates should be increased. However, in the same way, they should be prohibited from paying for courses, lectures, in some cases in organizations and foundations of dubious reputation, or also this practice, which is for all and all known, of preparing opponents in B, that is, collecting in hand. I don't think this can be taken for granted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u40	Mr. Iñarritu, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u41	I'm finishing up, Madam President. I believe that judges should also be given an opportunity to continue with compulsory continuing training based on national and international criteria of varied ideology. And, of course, to put an end to that system of guarantee judges and instructors at the same time. There should be guarantee judges as there are in other European models. Finally - and I conclude, Madam President - we must also create a public register of the interests of the judges and prosecutors and lawyers of the State - any citizen must have access to them to see whether they should be challenged or not, as is the case with the deputies - and transparent mechanisms must be set up in special courts such as the National High Court or the Supreme Court, because, what a coincidence, that all cases go to court number 3 or to court number 6 at the National High Court.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u42	Mr. Iñarritu, you have to finish. This patch seems to us not to be the solution. We do not oppose it, but we believe that we must put an end to the legal loophole and that we must take decisive and serious measures, that is, structural measures. Thank you very much, Madam President, and I am sorry that you have extended me.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u43	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u44	Thank you very much, President. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group presents a proposal for a law with very relevant changes in the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which has as its ultimate aim the de facto, proven, overcoming of the politicization of justice and which has as its original sin, also in its opinion, the way of choosing the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, of judicial origin, and which is projected in the disputes within it to proceed to the appointments of free designation of judicial positions and which, at the end, they would be subject to the will of the political parties through the members of the Council who supported their appointment. If that were really the case, the inevitable conclusion would have to be drawn that those judicial positions appointed by the free-appointment procedure acted on the designation of those who appointed them and were therefore neither independent nor impartial nor subject to the rule of law. And following this same discursive and reasoning logic that makes it unquestionable to politicize justice derived essentially from the parliamentary origin of the appointments of all the members, it is also called, among other measures, for the abolition of the so-called third round of the civil and criminal chambers of the higher courts and the impossibility of returning to the judicial career within two years of those who have held public office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliamentary Group at this time - progress - will not take into account the initiative discussed. The proposed changes are of such significance in the government of the judiciary and in the statute of judges and magistrates that their approach cannot be made as the one who shoots in the dark, but after the creation of a subcommission of study in the Constitutional Commission which analyses the reality of the fundamental question that encourages any debate about justice in Spain. And so, if we address the issue from the judgment of the different courts of justice, virtually no one denies, from professional or media fields, that they are independent of those of the countries in our environment and the Union, or that they are not subject to political or social power or that they act according to their reasoned understanding of the legal system to which they are subject. However, if the issue is addressed from the perception that it is transmitted through the media, with the added difficulty of distinguishing between the public opinion and the judiciary and the courts, there is less doubt in affirming the politicization of justice derived, as we have already pointed out, from the parliamentary origin of the whole of the Council, and from the also mentioned scenes of division lived within it, an image to which we must also and most importantly say that it has been contributed, albeit not equally, from the political parties by the spurious use of judicial procedures, mainly criminal and contentious-administrative, to attack decisions of the adversary, or by the recurring attitude of subsuming the scope of political responsibilities in the courts when they are clearly differentiated in nature, or by not agreeing on criteria of excellence on candidates for constitutionally relevant bodies, in particular the General Council, or by continuing with debates within it, or by criticizing without legal basis decisions of the courts. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, and after these general considerations on what we consider to be the substance of the matter, I will move forward with our specific position on some of the issues discussed in the initiative. Thus, with regard to the parliamentary appointment of judicial extractors, we believe that it cannot be said that this undermines the greatest guarantee of their independence when it was precisely the constituent in the report of the paper who rejected the system drawn up in the preliminary draft exclusively judicial proposal that it should be established by an organic law, a change that was subsequently not modified either by the opinion of the Constitutional Commission or by the Constitutional Commission of the Senate. Moreover, it is the Constitutional Court itself that denies that this is a constitutional requirement, not even for the best constitutional compliance, since it does not derive from the will of the constituents or from the content of the constitutional text or from the purpose pursued for this body by the Constitution or from the same judicial independence, nor is the General Council an expression of the self-government of the judiciary understood as the whole of judges and judges. The only thing that the Constitution points out, as the Constitutional Court points out with regard to the General Council in its functions, is that it is autonomous and not subordinate to the other powers. With regard to the elimination of a large part of the current almost two hundred free-appointment judicial appointments, which are conducted by competitive examination such as the remaining 5500 judges and judges, it should be noted that, despite the fact that the initiative qualifies as discretionary appointments, i.e. without any rule, this is not the case, since the free-appointment is subject to Regulation 1/2010 and to the jurisprudence of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, which has been issued on the basis of judicial review of the acts of appointment of free-appointment by the General Council and which has limited this freedom of appointment based initially on trust in order to move it to criteria of merit and capacity, which are today those which are governed together with the also confirmed fact that the General Council has a margin of decision on the suitability or suitability of candidates for the place to which they aspire. Because it cannot be ignored that a magnificent judge can be a terrible manager of a court and that there can also be factors that are not of merit or capacity, but that should be taken into account such as, for example, bringing to the courts judges of different specialties. In short, the Supreme Court, although it has accentuated professional excellence, has not considered either legal or desirable the deprivation by the General Council of any evaluative element of suitability. For lack of time, I will not enter into considerations on the elimination of the third round or other legislative amendments. We believe that it would be sufficient to apply the rules correctly. I'm done, President. The Council is a body of constitutional dimension and with undoubted significance, and it is not inconsistent, from the counterweights of any constitutional model and of the social and democratic state of law, to compensate for the power given to judges, who are the majority within the General Council, with the counterweight of parliamentary designation, that our model - and must not be forgotten - is shared with the judicial career through the proposals of the judicial vowels...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u45	Mr. Legarda, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u46	Yeah, it's over. ... that raise the Chambers for appointment. Thank you very much, President and ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Fifteen days ago we were debating in this House an initiative of the People's Party that demagogically sought to guarantee the independence of justice, in particular the Attorney General's Office. I say demagogically because the PP has been instrumentalizing the Office of the Prosecutor for political purposes on a permanent basis throughout its mandates. And we can also say a justice with little or no democratic sensitivity that systematically privileged the defense to the extreme of the regime of 78 in its most reactionary aspect and especially in what you all call the sacred unity of Spain, in that you agree with the proponent with the People's Party and the far right of VOX. You said that the spirit of the Transition had to be restored. Go back! Because, from our point of view, precisely if something explains this absolutely reactionary justice, it is that the so-called mythic Transition did not entail a democratic break with the dictatorship and allowed the continuity of many structures of Francoism in the regime of 78, especially in the judicial sphere, with a justice that was not democratised at the end of Francoism. He recalled in the previous debate that the best example was the Franco Public Order Court, which was held on 4 January 1977 as a Franco repressive court and rose on 5 January as a Democratic National Court. There was not only continuity, but an obvious reactionary ideological reproduction, when not also biological, which explains shameful sentences over the last forty years and to this day; Machist, homophobic, repressive sentences, against freedom of expression, especially if it was to protect the corrupt Bourbons. But also, and above all, directly political sentences, such as those handed down against sovereignism and the independence of non-State nations, in Euskal Herria, Catalonia or Galicia. As recent examples, in the case of Galicia, next October they will be tried at the National Audience - let's remember, the former Franco top - twelve Galician independenceists, a political organization and another social organization who want to illegalize as a result of the so-called Operation Jaro, an armed political-police assembly in the Ministry of the Interior during the governments of the People's Party by people now involved in Operation Kitchen. And in the coming months we will be tried in the Supreme Court 17 activists of the BNG denounced by the Franco family for claiming something that is of justice, the return to the Galician people of the Pazo de Meirás. From our perspective - I conclude - and although we often denounce that PP and PSOE have been dividing the judiciary for forty years, it is not a question of making cosmetic changes, mere patches, such as changing the appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, what needs to be done is to democratize the Administration of Justice and adapt it to the plurinational reality of the Spanish State. In Galicia, for example, something as elementary as being guaranteed that citizens can relate to justice in their own language, a clear violation of language rights that is experienced by many people as violence more precisely at complex times. For the BNG, therefore, what needs to be done is to transfer justice to Galicia, not only the material means, but also that the Galician High Court of Justice is the last judicial body in our country, especially so that it is possible to build a Galician, democratic, justice administration focused on guaranteeing the right of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today you are bringing a new proposal to strengthen judicial independence. It is obvious that you attach great importance to her because she is not defended by the spokesman for Justice of the formation, but by the superior head. You are partially correct in the diagnosis, but in my opinion you are completely wrong in the solution. Indeed, they are right in the diagnosis: Spanish justice, the judiciary, suffers a great problem because of judicialization, as you have shown and denounced the Greek reports since 2013 repeatedly, but you omit other serious problems that, together with politicization, also afflict the judiciary. One of them is the ideological bias extremely shunned towards conservative or very conservative positions. If you want to solve that - and I am not talking about you alone anymore, but especially the benches of the groups that support the Government, which are actually those who have the capacity to do so - the first thing you should do is to reform the system of access to the judiciary, an excessively memoristic system of access, an access system that prevents lawyers and jurists from families who do not have the resources to allow it, to isolate them from the world for three, four or five years that the opposition lasts, desocializes them, which then entails an excessive endogamy, a feeling of caste, of elite, which is absolutely harmful. To solve this, the third, fourth and fifth rounds should be strengthened, and the judiciary strengthened with people from legal professions who have lived their lives, who have seen the conflicts from both sides of the barrier and who would bring new wisdom to the judiciary. Another problem that seriously affects the judiciary is the lack of control. Who's guarding the guards? When there is any conflict affecting the judiciary, who should judge it? The judicial power itself. Since you appeal to the constitutional text, let us appeal to what is stated in article 122 of the Constitution, but do not remain alone in who appoints you, because that is secondary. Article 122 states that twelve judges and magistrates and the other eight, appointed by Congress and Senate, lawyers and other jurists of recognized prestige. It is clear that judges and judges can also be jurists of recognized prestige, but it is clear that the constitutional spirit was precisely to bring to the Government of the Judiciary those lawyers and legal professionals who, coming from other professions, could exercise this point of control and control of an excessively endogenous judiciary. To finish the short time I have, if you really care so much about the independence of the judiciary, you have it very easily, Mrs Arrimadas. Put off the phone, call Mr.Married and tell him: Hi, Pablo, I'm Inés; as this issue is very worrying, I'll let you know that if you don't immediately unlock the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary by appointing independent jurists who have no party pollution, we will stop giving you support in all those places where our votes are necessary for you to keep the government. See if it would be easy and effective. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Crespo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u52	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary needs something more than a reform. The problems facing the system are too many to even name them in a debate of consideration. Still, we will point out some of those that we consider to be most serious, although the list - as we said - is endless. We are not going to deny the lack of judicial independence in the Spanish State. But how will the judiciary be independent if it is heir to Francoism? [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary in Spain never made a transition to adapt to the demands of a democratic state. No democratic transition, no accountability, no reparation for the unjust trials or arbitrary sentences of the fascist regime. Moreover, the judiciary has proved to be the bulwark of the values of a regime that is very different from democratic. Otherwise, you will tell me how it is possible that the crimes committed during the Francoism are being investigated in Argentina. Because in the Spanish state - and in particular in the judiciary - there is still a connivance with the dictatorial regime and its values, which leads not only not to investigate, but to pursue those who try to do so. One of the great problems of the judiciary in Spain is the ideological bias that permeates all its actions. But I am not talking about a more progressive or more conservative ideology, but about the ideology par excellence, which cohesives and gives meaning to the regime of 78 and which is nothing other than the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. The independenceists know very well what we are talking about because we suffer in the first person the general case against independence and political dissent, a case that has been repressed with great enthusiasm by the judicial elements, from the Supreme Court to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. This ideological bias is the only thing that can explain why Spanish judges continue to make ridicule at the international level by ignoring, inter alia, the Court of Justice of the European Union or the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention. They prefer to discredit themselves before the international community rather than renounce this patriotic mission they have, which is nothing other than to save the unity of Spain. And I take this moment to claim once again amnesty for our political and exiled prisoners and the exercise of the right to self-determination as a political solution to the conflict. [[Applauds]] Another major problem is sexism in the judiciary. [[Rumors]] Despite the massive incorporation of women into the latest promotions, they still have no visibility in the judicial dome. Not to mention the lack of a feminist perspective on the day-to-day life of the courts and the forms of judicial decisions. How to forget cases like La Manada? We have always said, La Manada is not an isolated case, it is the patriarchal system, a system that today the judiciary still supports rather than combats it. Having said that, we agree that, for example, the appointment system of the General Council of the Judiciary is currently very dysfunctional. It is well known that the system of election has degenerated into a division of members according to their party identification between the two majority parties, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, but, frankly, we do not think that this will end in a reform of the system of election, of the pay system or of other minor changes. When the structures themselves are corrupted, the system of choice will not be able to contribute to the strengthening of judicial independence. We must go to the root of the problem and we think that this proposal for a law does not go to the root, but tries to make up a judicial system whose problems are structural and not cyclical at any given political moment. That is why we are going to vote against this initiative and, if the procedure is to be taken into consideration, we will be deepening our differences. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Santiago Romero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Two years ago, the General Council of the Judiciary expired its mandate and since then the People's Party, Citizens and VOX have blocked its renewal. It is the greatest degradation of the rule of law that has occurred for years and Mrs Arrimadas has not said a word from this rostrum. Just as Mrs Arrimadas said in September, Mr Bal announced in July that he would block the renewal unless this reform that they bring us was approved, and in September he announced that he would block any agreement in which we can intervene among other forces. With this blackmail or blockade of the renewal of the judicial organ, Citizens, like the People's Party and VOX, repeats the attitude of the most authoritarian governments of the European Union, Hungary or Poland, which have appropriated the governing organ of the judges according to their partisan and political interests. By preventing both Houses from fulfilling their constitutional obligation to renew the Council, they are attacking judicial independence. They show immense contempt for the constitutional principles of justice and equality, justify the blockade on the renewal of the Council by the presence of the Podemos Union in the Government and thus disregard the political rights of millions of voters from the Podemos Union and the Socialist Party. Citizens, People's Party and VOX do not respect the principle of equality. The same is true of the working class neighborhoods and cities by confining in Madrid those who have previously denied adequate primary, educational, transport and tracking care, who defend a supposed right to participate in institutions exclusively to voters who vote for the right-wing or extreme right-wing parties. Denying the right to rule, to participate, to choose those who vote for other options is a seditious attitude. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is seditious. Its proposal for a law seeks to conceal the blockade they maintain on the renewal of the Council for political and partisan interests. With this proposal of law they whiten and whiten their partners from the extreme right of the People's Party and the extreme right of VOX, concealing that they have no more politics than to remain the General Council of the Judiciary. They propose a system of election of governing bodies of the corporate, endogenous judiciary, without democratic legitimacy or representativeness, and as an example the procedure of election of the presidents of the courts they propose, which removes the few mechanisms that exist today in the law for the popular will to be considered in the appointment of the high courts of the autonomous communities, and make even more restrictive the access to the Supreme Court of the turn of jurists of recognized competence. They propose a model governing body of one of the three powers of the State incompatible with democratic values, eliminating any intervention of the popular will. Therefore, we will not support his proposal and we will remind you of what Montesquieu affirmed in The Spirit of the Laws, that freedom is the power to choose who should be obeyed. The judiciary has legitimacy if it responds to democratic principles, if society participates in its election. How do you propose that it be the Judicial Power that chooses the Judicial Power? Mrs. Arrimadas, are you going to propose that the Legislature elect the next Parliament? Or are they going to propose that the ministers choose the next Council of Ministers? Proposals such as these prevent popular sovereignty from being taken into account in the election of constitutional bodies. In a democratic country, institutions are not apolitical, they are dictatorships. The legislative power clearly has a political orientation, which the Spanish people have decided to go to the polls, and that must be respected. The appointment of judges by the Executive in the American case, Mrs. Arrimadas, or of the Government of Judges by the Legislature, as is the case in Spain, does not prevent the elected ones from exercising with freedom of conscience and principle, in particular, with regard to the functions of the General Council of the Judiciary. The corporatism they propose is neither neutrality nor depoliticization of institutions, it is one more political option, it is an ideology and an ideology with tragic consequences in history. Remember the model of the Italian corporate state of Mussolini or - it is not necessary to go so far - the corporate courts of Franco. This model is not typical of a democracy, it has no recognition in the 1978 Constitution or in any democratic constitution. In no country in our field are the governing bodies of the judiciary elected by the judges themselves, but the legislative, executive or both powers intervene, so it is in France, the United Kingdom, Germany or the United States, even in direct popular vote in the latter case. We want the widest participation of voters in the election of the General Council of the Judiciary. If the three right-wings are committed to blocking the renewal of the Council by parasiticizing the current requirement of a three-fifth majority, we propose an amendment to the Organic Law of the Judiciary in strict application of article 122 of the Constitution. This article only requires a three-fifth majority in Congress to elect jurists of recognized standing who make up the General Council, as is the case with other institutional bodies, such as the National Securities Market Commission. We agree that the Council shall cease to function on the day after its five-year term, the date on which the next Council shall be elected. We agree that appointments made after their expiry cannot be made by a council with the expired mandate and that appointments made after their expiry must be ratified by the incoming council. I hope that these reforms can be retroactive and apply with respect to any advice that has expired its mandate because the degree of compliance with constitutional duties and obligations is a parameter that measures the democratic health of a country and no party that presumes to respect and defend democratic principles can refuse to renew the constitutional bodies once the mandate has expired, as stipulated in the Constitution. It is also up to you, Mrs. Arrimadas, to comply with the Constitution, to complete the abduction of the judicial power organized by the right. Be serious, cease your appropriation of the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u55	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. In 1748, a prestigious French jurist, Montesquieu, developed a treaty of political and comparative law called The Spirit of Laws, in which he demonstrated that the division of powers and the independence of the judiciary were the best guarantee to fight against the despotism and totalitarianism of political power. This was assumed by the majority of constitutional democracies, but was also reflected in our 1978 Constitution, in its article 117, on the independence of the judiciary, and in article 122, on the formation of the governing body of the General Council of the judiciary, and was thus developed in that first Organic Law of the judiciary of 1980. But we had to wait only five years for a vice president of the socialist government to rule: Montesquieu is dead. From then on, he repealed the 1980 Act and decided that all members of the General Council of the Judiciary would be appointed by politicians, that is, by the Congress of Deputies and by the Senate. The Constitutional Court issued a judgment a year later, in 1986, drawing attention to the risk this posed against judicial independence and therefore against one of the basic principles of democracy. It was to be expected until 2001, where only a make-up of the law was made and it was said that from then on they would remain the politicians, but at least the associations of judges and magistrates could propose to them thirty-six candidates, although they, the politicians, would still be the ones to choose. Pure makeup. Until today, 2020, in which both the Socialist Party and the People's Party, as much riding, as riding, with the help of their partners, have done nothing but maintain a flawed system of political interference in the judiciary that has led to the end of the independence of the government of judges and the highest judges. But it is fair to break a spear by that vast majority of judges and magistrates who, despite the pressures, remain independent judges, not so their governing body, not so the main magistrates, Supreme Court chambers, provincial hearings, higher courts of justice, National High Court. Today, in 2020, a brilliant judge, a capable judge, a judge with experience and seniority in his judicial career crashes against a glass ceiling armored by politicians because if he is not associated, if he is not politicized, if he is not in the hands of a political party, his judicial career will never reach the highest judicial levels. VOX's proposals have struggled not only for independence, but also for the need for it to have the highest professionalism, based on merit, capacity, based on experience, with sufficient human and material means, with agile judicial processes and with fair remuneration. This is what would make it a fast, effective and independent judiciary. Citizens are presenting us with a proposal that, as we have already put it, we are going to vote in the affirmative because it is consistent with what we have been defending and also because we want to improve it through the corresponding amendments at the Commission stage. Since the adoption of the Constitution or, rather, since the 1985 law, the panorama of Spanish justice regarding the appointment of the governing bodies of judges, we could describe it as a genuine vicious circle, a circle like this. [[Show a drawing]] You and all the Spaniards can see here that politicians choose the General Council of the Judiciary?Do you see it?It then elects the judges, the high magistrates, who are then, by means of the foresights, to judge those politicians themselves. Independence therefore dies and remains dependent on political parties. [[Applauds]] This is the reality that we have been enduring in Spain for many decades. On December 4, 2018, the current General Council of the Judiciary was defeated, it has been almost two years and some call for constitutional consent!, height of state!, the agreements of state! False. What they are talking about is an unworthy political distribution of the highest judges of the judiciary and its governing body. If anyone had any doubts, let's remember some question. Do you remember Ignacio Cosidó, who was the spokesman for the People's Party in the Senate? For in the wasap he sent to the senators he said such things as 'with negotiation, the PP now has nine additional members of the president..., so we will control the Second Chamber from behind and, in addition, preside over the 61st Chamber'. I remind you that the Criminal Chamber is the one that judges precisely the outlawed deputies and senators and the 61 one that serves to illegalize parties, for example pro-terrestrial or separatist-coupists. I could remind you of the news of a few days ago, the wasaps between Pablo Casado and Pedro Sánchez seeing the distribution of the General Council's chromosomes, or the statements of the Lieutenant Prosecutor of the Supreme Court, Navajas, on how to file, by orders of the Attorney General of the State, all the complaints against the Government. I'm finishing up. I'm sure everyone remembers when that Pedro Sánchez, in that boast of hypocrisy with which he addresses the Spaniards, asks a journalist: 'Who does the Attorney General's Office depend on?' And the journalist answers, 'From the Government'. And he says, 'Well, that's it.' From this VOX parliamentary group, the third political force in Spain, I am addressing the People's Party and the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and all its partners and co-religionaries in recent decades and I ask you: On whom is the election of the governing body of the judges, on whom do the high judiciary depend on justice? Well, that's it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group will support the consideration of this bill by the Citizens' Group. The main reform that you are proposing, that is, the change in the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, fully coincides with what we are proposing. We also believe that this reform will contribute to the improvement of the independence of the judiciary. We disagree with some of the other reforms that you include, but we are sure that we will have an opportunity to discuss them at the appropriate time. That is true, Mrs Arrimadas, we do not agree with some of the arguments that you have used today and, above all, with that delegitimization that you have made of the entire General Council of the Judiciary to this day, a delegitimization in which you have spoken of sharing with judges and magistrates by the old parties, what we believe, Mrs Arrimadas, is also an attack on all judges and magistrates. We do not share it, nor do we share its reference to corruptions, thefts and so on that he has mentioned. Nor do we share, Mr Ortega, the radical questioning that you have made of judicial independence to this day. We regret, Mr Ortega, that you have bought the manipulation of the government with that of the wasaps, this in which the government has lied, and we regret that you have bought that lie. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall that it is important in this debate that the current system is fully constitutional, as the Constitutional Court itself ratified in its judgment of November 2016. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is not constitutional is what the Government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos is doing, a government which, in recent weeks, however, does not stop invoking the Constitution, when it calls on us, the People's Group, to negotiate with them the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left and the Far Left, when you lie to the Constitution, do you know who you remind me of? To Mr. Iglesias, to the vice president of this government, a confessed communist, invoking article 128 of the Constitution. And I remember immediately, ladies and gentlemen, Hugo Chávez saying, "Example yourself." [[Applauds]] This same Saturday Pedro Sánchez, on a television show, said that you must be a full-time constitutionalist and that you have a strong commitment to the Constitution. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that it is a constitutionalist and that it is a constitutional commitment a government in which the Vice-President and several of his ministers want to end the parliamentary monarchy and replace it with the federal or confederal republic? Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist bench, that a government whose vice-president is a confessed communist and also several of the ministers is constitutional? But does it seem to you a constitutional commitment to defend communist totalitarianism? Is that constitutional commitment? [[Applauds]] By the way, it is surprising to hear Mr Santiago here, also a communist, talking about the degradation of democracy. Unbelievable. And do you, gentlemen of the Left Bank and the Far Left, believe that it is a constitutional compromise to agree with Bildu, a party that still does not condemn ETA attacks? ; better yet, what do they continue to justify? Do you call your pact with Bildu a constitutional commitment to bring prisoners closer? Do you call it a constitutional commitment to agree with Bildu and propose a democratic memory law to condemn Francoism, while almost four hundred murders of ETA remain unresolved? [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the new Secretary-General of Socialist Youth of Euskadi, Victor Trimiño, has rightly asked you to stop bleaching Bildu. I am sure that the vast majority of Socialist voters agree. Do you call it a constitutional commitment, ladies and gentlemen of the left and the far left, to that negotiating table with the Catalan independenceists to negotiate amnesty and self-determination? Negotiating article 2 of the Constitution, the unity of Spain, is constitutional? And to negotiate that article 2, moreover jumping article 1, of national sovereignty, with an extraparliamentary table is constitutional? Stop lying on that table, because the Republican Left spokesman himself, unless he tells us today that we are lying, has said several times and has ratified that you at that table are negotiating self-determination and amnesty. In fact, about amnesty, you've already set it up. This weekend the Catalan press has told us in every detail that you are doing an express reform of the crimes of sedition and rebellion in the Penal Code in order to lower the penalties and apply them retroactively. That is to say, that you, ladies and gentlemen of the left and the far left, intend to let go of nothing more and nothing less than the rulings of the Supreme Court, and also intend to let go of them for criminals who are repeating, for those who want to hear it, that they are going to commit these crimes again. Does that seem like a constitutional commitment to you? Ladies and gentlemen of the Left and the Far Left, stop invoking the Constitution to call on us to renew the General Council of the Judiciary, because every time you invoke the Constitution we remember your Communist Vice-President calling on 128 and Chaves saying: explode yourself. [[Rumors]] Break up, ladies and gentlemen of the socialist bench, with the extreme left which now dictates its painful relationship with the Constitution, end with that unworthy and unconstitutional table with the Catalan independenceists, renounce this scandalous amnesty for the criminals they are preparing.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u59	Mrs. Uriarte, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u60	Stop whitening Bildu and really return to the constitutional commitment, to that constitutional commitment that you have unfortunately abandoned since Mr Sánchez led you. Return to the constitutional commitment in all areas, and add to this reform of the judiciary today too. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u62	Thank you, President. Mrs. Arrimadas, you complain that others politicize justice. The speech you have just made in this rostrum is, at least, of anything less legal. Mrs Uriarte, stop invoking the Constitution and limit yourself to complying with it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group seems to be putting forward its model of justice with changes that ultimately affect the very design of the judicial career. But let him try to sum up in a few words the spirit of his initiative. Citizens tell us that the procedure for the election of Council members has affected judicial independence, even undermined it as a result of an alleged politicization of the governing body of judges. This argument is not new, nor is it, in our view, acceptable or true. It was raised in the constitutional debate of article 122, and reproduced in the process and adoption of the Organic Law in 1985. I recommend reading those Journals of Sessions because they illustrate how old-fashioned they are some of the reasons they come back today, presenting them as novel. Our justice and the professionals who impart it, the judiciary in Spain, are independent and, of course, that independence is neither questioned nor weakened because it is the Congress and the Senate that participate in the election of the members of the governing body of the judges. The independence of justice is called into question by the participation of Parliament, denigrating what you politicians call you, ladies and gentlemen, you. It has the current system - a model like that of countries in our European and even American environment - a dual legitimation. In our case, the shared parliamentary designation - do not forget it, shared - with the proposal made by the judicial career itself. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the pedagogy of explaining this double legitimation is good. It is the judges who propose and, from among the proposed ones, the Congress and the Senate, where national sovereignty resides, participate in this legitimation to choose the best. I will stop in some of the proposals made by Citizens, starting precisely because they call the election by the judges of the governing body of the judges. We do not share the proposed system of election, to the extent that it determines a corporate conception and without democratic legitimacy of the judiciary and its government. [[Applauds]] We do not share his proposals in the election of collegiate bodies and higher courts of justice. You mark a horizontal race, of vertical promotion, which does not take into account even the peculiarities of the judicial race itself. They design a model that would involve a closed judicial career in itself and lacking any democratic representativeness. They restrict without apparent justification the access to the Supreme Court for the turn of jurists of recognized competence, raising without foundation from fifteen to twenty years necessary to enter, and restrict, lastly, even the fundamental rights of judges by preventing them, like any citizen, from entering and participating in political life, violating fundamental rights. For this reason and for other reasons, we believe that this is not the right way, and hence the unfavorable position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the handling of this bill. I reiterate the words of the current Minister of Justice in this Chamber, in a debate in 2016, with similar approaches from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. They do not distinguish, ladies and gentlemen - said Don Juan Carlos Campo -, what must be reforms of justice of reforms in justice. I respectfully tell you, Mrs Arrimadas, I respectfully tell you, you are wrong about the confusion of corruption, about questioning judicial independence and the election of Council members. We do not share the statements that call into question or presuppose this lack of independence precisely because of Parliament's participation. There is a body of government with constitutional rank that ensures, among other things, the independence of judges, but the judiciary, Mrs. Arrimadas, is not a power concentrated in one organ, but is exercised by each of the judges who are completely independent when they resolve their affairs, applying the laws, interpreting them and acting with their own conscience, without having other guardianships in their resolutions. Precisely the independence of the judges, the guarantee of their freedom is even more powerful because the Parliament, where the sovereignty of the people resides, where we are their legitimate representatives, participates in the election of the Council. This is our conception of democracy and justice, which responds to the constitutional model with which the Socialist Group is identified and which you question; a concept which tends to give effect to precisely Article 117 of the Constitution itself, which ensures that justice emanates from the people. And this is the reiterated doctrine maintained by the Constitutional Court. It is not the model that fails, but the management of it. We have a General Council of the Judiciary whose term ended two years ago, a council that should not make appointments while it remains in office. I do not need to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the consequences of the paralysis, of this blockade. It is a necessary renewal that cannot be subject to conditions that conceal spurious interests. I call on the People's Group to take down the wall of the blockade that they have raised with petty attitudes, because respect deserves citizenship, justice and the Council itself. Putting justice where it belongs, on the frontline of the Constitution, is achieved with respect and compliance with each and every one of its articles, not trying to denigrate the institutions by treating them as something at their service and for their own benefit to cover up their own shames. Finally, Madam President, I would like to reiterate the words of the Minister of Justice: let us look for a strengthened dialogue in the parliamentary sphere, and strengthen the necessary arrangements to improve the management model and to carry out the necessary amendments and improvements to the Organic Law on the Judiciary. On that path of understanding you will find us secure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Leal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u64	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Republican Parliamentary Group on the express regularization of immigrants in the areas of health, care and agriculture. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u65	Good afternoon, everyone. I would like to begin by sending a affectionate hug to my colleague and friend, Congresswoman Maria Carvalho Dantas. She should, after hard work, be here today defending this non-law proposal, but for health reasons she cannot. From here we send you a warm embrace. Today I will simply be his voice which, at the same time, is the voice of all the platforms that are in this noble struggle and noble cause. This document that I will read as it has been written in its entirety by the state movement #RegularizationAlready. We, I repeat, will simply be the resonance box of this non-law proposal today for the unconditional regularization of all migrants in an irregular administrative situation. This GNP is the result of the work begun months ago, years ago by the movement, together with the Coordinator Obrim Frontiers and the support of up to eight political forces. Today, therefore, we are taking an unprecedented and decisive step towards the protection of our rights. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have seen with stupor, pain and indignation the absolute lack of attention to the situation of our sisters and brothers in an irregular administrative situation; we have witnessed preventable deaths due to the condition simply of irregularity. The most extreme expression of a State that benefits from the contribution of migrants, as pointed out by the Ombudsman himself in his report of 2019, and which, however, does not provide a framework of rights that protects them. COVID-19 has not affected us all equally, inequality and poverty have increased; with the pandemic, measures taken in the context of this crisis have made those in an irregular situation more vulnerable. This has been the result of political decisions in a normative framework of inefficient alienation, with negative implications for the life, health and future prospects of irregular migrants, which have exponentially increased their exposure to labour and sexual exploitation and to racist and macho violence. Disappointing the health status of collectives alone and solely because of their administrative status constitutes discrimination, and violates public health itself. We cannot look elsewhere to talk about racism, nor can we say or say that Spain has anti-racist legislation when at least 600,000 people do not exist, literally do not exist for this State, as demonstrated by the absence of measures and discrimination in access to protection resources before COVID-19, as is the case with minimum living income. Migrant lives must also matter in the Spanish State. The #RegularizationMovement Already and the groups that make up it we do not agree that we are distinguished between migrant people in categories or with different status of rights, depending on the labor sectors we occupy or according to our vital situation. It is therefore necessary to level the starting conditions for all persons without exclusion. [[The Lord]] This proposal not only advocates unconditional regularization for people in an irregular situation, but also in its 13 measures - 13 measures - urges the Government to respond once and for all - albeit late - to the responsibility and ethical height attributed to it in its functions, to bloody situations such as conditions in immigration temporary centres, CETI, violence against unaccompanied minors, ill-treatment and neglect of asylum-seekers and the constant denial of their applications, as well as to the harmful functioning of the system of care for foreigners, which, due to its lack of resources and excessive bureaucracy, feeds corruption without limit and systematically creates situations of irregularity. The Spanish State, ladies and gentlemen, must live up to its international obligations and commitments, such as those arising from international human rights treaties, the 2030 Agenda and its own Constitution. Migrants are already part of this country, we are aware of the challenges that the pandemic poses for this society, and we are being a part of it and we want to be part of the response; we want to add in terms of equity, because our well-being is also the well-being of our families, here and in our countries, and also for the whole of Spanish society. Today, this House has the historic opportunity to take a step forward in the real and just inclusion that will allow us to get out of this crisis in common. Regularization is now immediate, unconditional and permanent for all people in an irregular situation who are today in the Spanish State. State Movement #Regularization Already 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, this is already mine. If something is worth leaving behind or aside our differences, this is it; this is it. Please, let's do it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u66	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u67	Mr. President, hold on. This GNP for the regularization of migrants broadly reflects the reality that these women and men are living in the Spanish State, and we strongly share what is defended in it. We have been reporting for months that the emergency situation generated by the COVID-19 pandemic has left the most vulnerable sectors of the working class in dismay, as it is the most precarious groups that suffer the consequences of this emergency to the greatest extent. Among these sectors are migrant persons in irregular administrative situations, minors without adult references, both institutionalized and not, because they are in more disadvantaged social situations, to cite some of the examples. Fifteen days ago we recalled the situation of migrant women domestic workers and care workers, and again I refer to them because they have been on the front line enduring many in a situation of semi-slavery and kidnapped. We owe all of them our dignity. This society must reward its work by legalizing its situation and making it visible, regularizing these women who have been contributing as the most, but who continue to be limited by issue of origin. In the Basque Autonomous Community and in Navarre it has been said that health systems have endured the invitation of COVID with good note, thanks, it is said, to a good system. No one appoints the thousands of mostly irregular women who have cared for our grandparents and grandmothers, for people with special needs, for sick people who have stayed in their homes cared for by immigrant women 24 hours a day, and who have not attended either primary or hospital care. We cannot look elsewhere and continue to normalize this situation, because ethically and morally it is unsustainable. We urge the Government to regulate temporarily with immediate effect and with the option of extending all persons who are in an irregular administrative situation in the Spanish State. The Aliens Act is the cornerstone of state migration policies, and never takes into account changes in society. It is the one that leads to situations of precariousness, exclusion, poverty and continuing human rights violations. Therefore, this crisis situation also leaves people in an irregular administrative situation completely unprotected. This law makes migrant persons subject to non-law, engaged in work in the submerged economy, with the permanent threat of expulsion, of not being able to opt for formal employment or rent a home. We therefore demand the repeal of the Aliens Act, because it is a human rights issue. Everyone must have all the rights. Regularization must therefore be a matter of human rights and not economic utilitarianism. We therefore complain that temporary flexibility in the recruitment of workers in some sectors may serve as a cover to maintain working conditions of exploitation and violation of rights. From a sovereignist and solidarity perspective, we demand competences and instruments to have proper and fair migration policies that guarantee the rights that Spanish legality violates and can exercise as a host people that we are. In this regard, we believe it is necessary to link full citizenship to residence through registration, with the aim of overcoming restrictive and rights-infringing state impositions; to assume powers also for the regularization of procedures for the authorization of residence and work of migrants; to decentralize, legislate and expedite the reception system to meet the basic needs of those arriving in our territory, including maritime rescue. Euskal Herria wants to be a host country and, as a country, we want to respond to the people who have arrived and to those who will reach our people. But in order to be able to respond as a country, it is essential to have the tools and skills to have our own migration policies. To have sovereignty would allow us to implement humanitarian and solidarity policies that are today denied to us by the States and the European Union. Therefore, incorporating the rights of migrants and refugees together with those of our people will be the way to always travel by the hands of the groups and individuals involved in the active defence of the rights linked to universal citizenship, a shared value in my country for a long time. Basques and Basques are all those people we live and work in Euskal Herria, all of them. And yes, all of them, Basques and Basques, should have the same rights, because we aspire to live in a country that welcomes those who come to live and work it, that recognizes and watches over their rights, because also Basques and Basques were immigrants, we also went to other countries, to other societies...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u68	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u69	...to build a life and we know what it is. That is why Basque citizenship today is solidarity. That is why today Euskal Herria is a host country, because we aspire to build it with all of them, to build a diverse country, free and with rights for all and for all, for all people. Beti jango zarete ongi etorriak. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u70	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing today an initiative by the Republican Group which, or rather, sought, before its amendment to the whole, the regularisation of immigrants in the health, care and agricultural fields. This, which seems a laudable initiative full of good intentions, must be regulated with seriousness, with humanity and above all without opportunism. The three amendments we have tabled are in this respect. On the one hand, the proper format of the initiative in the form of a non-legislative proposal lacks the entity sufficient to force the Government to act, to make it effective. We all know that this is merely a declaration of intent. On the other hand, what it tries to do regularly has to be in line with what is laid down in the state rules, such as the Organic Law 4/2000 on Aliens, and Royal Decree 557/2011, which regulates the Regulation of the Rights and Freedoms of Foreigners in Spain, so we miss a little more concretely in the proposals, at least in the initial text. It is discussed in the exhibition of reasons for real situations - which we share -, but later on, in the operative part of the original text, they include, first of all, an approval and a massive regularization of degrees relating to medicine, dentistry and nursing, and even the training cycles of all these areas. In our opinion, it is quite risky and can even be counterproductive to approve diplomas issued in countries only with a responsible declaration, without any further guarantees and, moreover, without other prerequisites for providing professional training in the health field. This is the most sensitive area in our professional world right now. We are well aware of the situation of our healthcare professionals, many of whom are extremely saturated by their workload, with unfair payrolls and contracts and with a high risk of becoming ill by the treatment of patients. Not in vain, Spain has the highest infection rate in the world. In addition, an increase in staff and also an increase in goods and materials is essential to combat this second terrible wave of coronavirus. The meaning of this initiative seemed to be in principle this. Evidently, Citizens would support any initiative that sought that healthy - and never better said - objective. In this sense, our first amendment to the first original point seeks to give greater legal certainty to the approval of these degrees, which are essential because of the state of health collapse that our health is in the midst of the resurgence of the coronavirus. Clearly, we need more staff and any mechanism that could facilitate that would be welcome. But, beyond good intentions, we believe that security and concreteness must be generated. The second point concerns the facilitation of the process of authorization of residence and work for health professionals with experience in intensive care in countries that have passed the COVID, as the original text says. Gentlemen of Esquerra, what countries have gone beyond the COVID? No vaccine, none. In the third and fourth points, they talk about reducing the temporary requirements for the uprooting of people in the health field and, all of a sudden, they also point out that this initiative is aimed at agriculture. Thank you. Obviously, homologatory measures such as those proposed at the first point would not make sense without flexibility in the temporary requirements for the granting of work and residence permits. We would therefore agree. The last of the points of this non-law proposal alludes, as it could not otherwise be, to the recurring competition conflict that you always resolve with the independence delusions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Esquerra and we could not think that they would not use their secessionism to shine out. Obviously, we do not share that point and we have tabled an amendment to delete it. In short, as I said at the outset, the objective of regularizing migrants in labour sectors that are very necessary for citizenship, as proposed in the initial text, is highly commendable. We must therefore say that the initiative should have taken into account legal certainty and the guarantees under which this could be carried out, with the ultimate aim of ensuring quality health care for citizens. Well, we are going to wait for the unlikely event that the amendments will be accepted. That is, we want to stress that in your first reading the GNP seemed to be something acceptable, coherent and common sense, but in your self-amendment you have completely forgotten about the health issue. They have removed the essence of GNP in the health field and, all of a sudden, they have made a new GNP that has nothing to do with it. Even in one of its points - specifically in point 12 - they accuse the State Security Forces and Bodies of arresting them on racial grounds. It is absolutely intolerable, false, ridiculous and shows total ignorance and insidia with the police and the Civil Guard that they do not deserve. But it's the usual thing, the enemies of Spain are the ones who write this self-amendment. We talk about Esquerra, Podemos, BNG, Compromís, CUP, Bildu, More Country and Together for Catalonia. We couldn't wait for anything else. Therefore, while we wait for our amendments to be made public, we leave our sense of vote still undecided. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u72	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Today the voice of the Galego Nationalist Block is also the voice of migrant people, of the #RegularizationYa platform, which has been working on this initiative for a long time. And why? Because the immigration policy of the Spanish State and the European Union denies people their rights because they are in an irregular situation, even those that the laws preach as universal. These policies serve only to promote marginalization. Migrants suffer from a situation of total lack of protection, which has been aggravated as a result of the economic and health crisis. They are condemned to greater job insecurity, to receive less wages by doing the same job and to bear a total lack of social protection. They are classified as suitable only for certain works which are generic and precarious and bear conditions of real exploitation. At this time when the Government is designing policies to get out of the crisis, it must also be remembered that it is essential to care for the most vulnerable sections of the population, and one of them is undoubtedly that of migrant and irregular persons. To this end, it is essential to address a process of permanent regularization, granting a residence and work permit and a social security number automatically and then facilitating their regularization. It is essential to take this step and take it now. Regularization now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u74	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u75	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. With the permission of Mrs Ayuso, I was able to arrive from Vallecas, a confined area - better said, segregated - where we have been changed trackers and doctors for police controls. And I have come to defend a proposition that, precisely, has a lot to do with emergency and rights. This crisis does not affect everyone alike. We are talking not only about socio-economic discrimination, but also about rights, about the impossibility of access to basic services by thousands of people who do not exist for the State, despite having been on the front line of care and in the hardest jobs. That is what the proposal and its thirteen points are about, to regularize, to guarantee rights, because illegality or precariousness, Your Honor, is what generates abuse, exploitation and consented subhuman conditions, of which we should be ashamed. We want to thank the work and dedication of the #ObrimFronteres and #Regularization Already platforms, as well as the more than 1500 collectives that have supported them. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is now more necessary than ever, because the threat of racism, the disregard for poverty and the lack of commitment to the dignity of all people is advancing, advancing in politics and advancing in institutions. The speeches of the Paguitas, which repeatedly, over and over again, point to the vulnerable population or speeches such as that of the President of the Community of Madrid, pointing to the victims as guilty, are a dangerous drift that violates the most elementary human rights. This proposal is a step forward.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u76	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u77	Let's be brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u78	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u79	Mr. President, good afternoon to everyone. We are faced with a number of situations in which people who are not citizens of the European Union live in Spain in an irregular administrative situation. These are persons who have entered Spain irregularly or regularly, under different circumstances, have occurred to an administrative irregularity. They are people who have abandoned their places of origin, perhaps fleeing armed conflicts, persecutions or climate crises, but with something in common: looking for a better future for them and their families. A goal that can be shared by Spaniards who, as they do not find an adequate future in their labour market, leave the border and emigrate. However, the people we talk about come to risk their lives to get their dream to come. But do they do it voluntarily? No, no, They do so simply because they have no other remedy, because regular access routes are not effective. Of course, anyone would like to be able to enter with a residence permit or work permit, but to do so the system must work and the list of occupations with difficult coverage is out of date. It is therefore essential to reform both the Aliens Act and its implementing regulations. Because this system does not work, we find people in an irregular administrative situation to whom we must provide a solution. It cannot be that we ignore them, they are people who are among us, with whom we live. It is true that in recent months some measures have been taken in relation to the agricultural issue or some recognition of qualifications in the health field, which were incidentally necessary to us, but what about the others? These people have not left their countries to go to another and live on aid or in the submerged economy; no, these people want to work and thereby contribute to the development of the country where they reside, paying their taxes, as the majority - but not all - of the Spaniards do. It is true that there is a high level of unemployment, but does it seem to us that there are jobs that do not contribute? At the beginning of the pandemic, when there was no PPE, networks of volunteers were created to make and donate them, and here participated both people with Spanish passport, as well as people in irregular administrative situations. The GNP has a long list of proposals. However, although we do not all share them, not sharing them is no reason for us to impede the adoption of the GNP. We consider it essential to deal with this issue in this House. That is why, and because we believe it is our duty to listen and give voice to the entities working in the sector, we have supported their presentation. We believe it is essential to discuss these situations and all their derivatives; we cannot let go or turn our heads in order not to see a reality. We therefore urge the self-called progressive and left-wing government to confront not only the policy of entry of migrants, but the situation of the people who are already here, and here we claim the role of the Generalitat de Catalunya, ready to create a more just and supportive society with all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u80	Thank you very much. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Franco Carmona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u81	Thank you, President. It is a pride for the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can bring here with other parliamentary groups the initiative promoted and elaborated by the #Regularization Already movement and the #ObrimFronteres coordinator. What we are discussing today is an obligation of our country with the six hundred thousand migrants who are in an irregular administrative situation; an obligation to guarantee their rights and to regularize their situation in order to end in this way an endless yincan that prevents the realization of a right and that causes many people to take up to ten years, and more than ten years, trying to regularize their situation. There are many migrants who have been working during the state of alarm in supermarkets, in the countryside ensuring the supply of food, in the care of dependent people, such as domestic workers, riders, hotel workers or transporters. These activities were considered essential during the state of alarm. Migrants maintained essential services, as did other people, but with a huge difference: many of them do not have access to ERTs, unemployment, minimum living income or decent housing. If these people were regarded as heroes throughout society during the state of alarm and during the pandemic, why does our country not recognize their rights as such? On the other hand, we find ultra-right governments committed to fomenting hatred and racism. Governments such as the Madrid Community, which accuses migrants who live and work here by raising our country, of being the most infected, as if the virus discriminated by nationality. How ignorant! Let me give a warning to those who intend to wash Aguado's face in front of Ayuso. Both come out in the press with the speech of hatred towards the working class and towards the migrant population, both have confined the south of Madrid and do so on two basic issues: for class hatred and for racism. My warning is this: Help and Water are the same, only they wear a suit of different color. This weekend, in addition, the Government of the Andalusian Junta, Moreno Bonilla's and Juan Marín's, announced that it will quickly test the COVID for people who are joining the next agricultural campaigns because they say that migrants are particularly vulnerable. And I wonder: if they are so vulnerable, why don't they also give these tests to the national people who are going to work in the agricultural campaigns as well? Why don't they give them to entrepreneurs? Moreover, why do they not eradicate settlements related to the red fruits and tomatoes of Lepe, Palos, Lucena, the County or Nijar, among others, and those of all Andalusia?Why do they not get them decent housing? Even the UN rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights drew our colours when we met him. In this regard, we are proud of the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate because they are registering and denouncing, together with the police, practices that could continue to be regarded as slaves today. From here I would like to appeal to the Government of Moreno Bonilla: stop looking elsewhere, look for and pursue those responsible for the fires in the settlements where the temporary and temporary women live and take them to court; otherwise, you will be their accomplices. I know that here, some Members, who speak of hate, will say that European legislation does not allow it or will continue with the canteen that this can create the bloody effect called. I must remind you of one thing: not only does European legislation allow it, but it is demanded by international treaties and other governments have already done so: the Zapatero government and also - hold on to it, ladies and gentlemen of the far right - the Aznar government. From the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can defend all the rights of all people because otherwise we will be talking not about rights but about privileges. For this reason, we are committed to regularizing migrants in general and, in particular, following this initiative, accelerating the regularization of those who came, lived and/or resided in our country during the pandemic, as we are committed to the flexibility of the criteria and procedures for this. From now on, among many other issues, we will appeal to criteria that lead us to a different paradigm so that those who arrive in our country will effectively become our neighbours and neighbours with all rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you to remember one thing well: social and social protection rights are the best policy of coexistence and also the best economic policy. Finally, I did not want to end without thanking, from the heart of the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos, the collectives that have worked all these months to bring here today this initiative. This GNP belongs to them and to them, to those who have been leaving their skins for the dignity and rights of all people all their lives.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u82	It has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u83	I'm done, Mr. President. As our Barcelona compañeras would say: love always wins hate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a Member of Ceuta, for Ceuta and for Spain. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]] Before presenting our amendment to this GNP, I would like to make two important points. A point of respect and consideration in my name and in that of my group, VOX, towards all those immigrants who have arrived or arrive in Spain through the legal channels and take forward Spain side by side with the nationals. [[Applauds]] And a second point, there are thousands of humanitarian reasons to apply once and for all responsible policies in immigration, which are lives, and in resources, which are of all Spaniards. The VOX Parliamentary Group is presenting this amendment to the Republican Group's small amount of GNP because there is no peak of veracity in its presentation, neither in the original text nor in that of its self-amendment. First, it is false that there is government reluctance to regularize immigrants, and it shows that already in June the Directorate-General for Migration relaxed several instructions and sent them to the foreign offices so that immigrants can regularize their situation in Spain and facilitate their social root, family reunification and renewals of permits. All of this, with the argument of avoiding the irregularity of those foreigners who have been affected by the crisis of COVID. That is why our amendment is precisely to be deleted, because the reality is that these instructions are a covert way of making it easier for immigrants to stay in Spain, which produces a so-called effect, along with aid for people without income, who need only one year of residence in Spain. I'm going to quote headlines of any day in the media: 'A cayuco arrives with more than eighty illegal immigrants to Los Cristianos, Santa Cruz de Tenerife; Five thousand illegal immigrants have arrived on the islands in what we have been in the year; In less than twenty-four hours they have arrived in Almería more than twenty pateras, with a total of two hundred illegal immigrants of Maghreb origin; A boat with twelve illegal immigrants disembarks in Cabo de Gata in Almería; A total of fifteen pateras have arrived on the coast of Murcia transporting 223 immigrants'. These are headlines of any day in the various media, not to mention that there is a massive assault on the fences of Ceuta and Melilla and also not counting those who cross daily from Castilejos to Ceuta, which are between fifteen or twenty daily, which has led to the creation of a second improvised CETI in an old hospital in Ceuta, from where they escape and where quarantines are not carried out. Or as happened at the CETI in Melilla at the end of August, where a riot left more than twenty wounded among the agents and security guards, because two hundred immigrants demanded - to be transferred to the peninsula. Of course, the Republican Group supports the mutineers and those who often hurt our forces and security forces with live lime. [[Applauds]] Do we already consider it an invasion or do we continue to make rules more flexible for the mafias to continue to anchor human lives? Given this invasion effect, today the Republican Group brings us a non-law proposal to carry out an express regularization of foreigners, similar to those that occurred in 1991, 2000, 2001 and 2005, regularizations that were massive. Since 1991, up to seven regularization processes have been carried out to respond to illegal foreign workers. Do you want me to say that we regulate more immigrants when we have an unemployment rate of 15.6% in Spain? Would a regularization that would further increase those figures because already today those instructions allow you to obtain residence without having a job? You're just looking for slave labor. That's why they want to bring more and more immigrants. [[Applauds]] You are exploiters who bring those people in and condemn them to precarious work, to mishap and to delinquent when they do not find a job. In addition, you are anti-patriots who seek to replace national workers by immigrants, while our nationals remain on the street having contributed for years. The Republican Group proposes in this GNP no less than abolishing the requirement of three years' stay in the social rooting procedure. What do you intend, Mr. Rufián? It intends to destroy Spain, because to what you aspire to with your political proposals disguised as goodism is only that, in the face of the economic catastrophe that our workers and entrepreneurs are suffering, the Spaniards are, moreover, condemned to pay for the invasion of migration. [[Applauds]] Because you're just looking for a Spain invaded by Africa, but Africa doesn't fit in Spain. And I'm done. There is something extraordinarily striking in the explanatory statement of your GNP. It stated, in text, that they consider regularisation more than necessary to provide a solution to the massive arrival of unaccompanied minors in 2018 and that they are currently of age, without having a residence and work permit. But, gentlemen, how many unaccompanied foreign minors take advantage of the opportunities offered by the State? How many? Unfortunately, these children end up on the street, escape from the centers, snooze glue, wander around any city, delinquent and if they sleep without their parents' good night kiss it is because parties like theirs have changed their story and told them that in Spain they will be better.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u86	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u87	Yeah, I'm done. Parties like yours have told them that in Spain they will be better. But the story has only one happy ending for these children: repatriation, family reunification and not waiting for these foreign minors to reach the age of majority and you seek the regularization of the thousands of MENA that now hosts Spain. Stop changing stories, that the morality of yours we already know and it is only to want to remove consciences towards a vicious destruction of Spain that in VOX we will not allow. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u88	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cancela Rodríguez. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u89	Thank you very much, President. Very good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Mr Rufián, I have to confess one thing to you before we start, and it is that it was going to be a little more forceful but, after listening to what I have just heard, almost not, with you I mean, with the proposal that you have put forward. When one has just heard an intervention like the one we have just heard, words like being a Democrat or remembers some article in the Constitution that says that Spain is constituted in a social and democratic state of law that advocates freedom, justice, equality, political pluralism as superior values of the legal system... Then, quickly, the ideas that it wanted to convey are recomposed. Political pluralism and being democrats. When you hear some things that hurt your ear because they directly attack your ideology, your principles, your values, the society we've built for so many years, you suddenly don't know how to react, because you thought that all that was already conquered, that all that was already consolidated, and it turns out not. That's why I have to give you reason, Mr. Rufián. You said that this is not a matter that separates us. He cannot separate us because we are faced with a situation where with hatred and fear he clings to citizenship, and there is no feeling more powerful than fear, the fear of losing your job, the fear of losing your health, your life or that of your own. Here's a political monster that's feeding on that fear. The Democrats of conviction, who call us progressives and leftists, cannot allow a single millimetre of regression, nor a single millimetre of regression. [[applause]] And I say to you that we agree on the contents of some of the issues that you raise in the amendment of the original non-legislative proposal, but we do not agree with the form, Your Honor: the form is not adequate. I also agree with you that this should not be a matter of political confrontation or of short-term strategies. This is an important enough issue, because we are talking about human rights and about the society we want to build and the values we want to promote, as in order to use it in the short boating. That's what you guys did today. I believe that this cannot be the objective, especially because they are obviating a fundamental question, and I absolutely disagree with the intervention of your Lordship of the United Nations. It is not true that there is no European regulation that prevents widespread regulation. Of course there is. It is true that it was José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero who made the last great regularisation, but it was before the European Pact for Asylum, it was before 2008. That's why it was done in 2005. What we cannot do is deceive citizens, what we cannot do is deceive people, that organized society to which you thank - and the Socialist Parliamentary Group joins - for their work in their struggle; we cannot deceive them and tell them that it is possible in this country, at this time, a massive regularisation of immigration, because it is not true, because our legislative framework and the European framework are saying that they have to be punctual, individual and assessed. [[applause]] Let us not use arguments that are not true, especially on a subject like this. Minister Escriva has said this on many occasions that he has appeared in this house. He said: why do we not start - this parliamentary group repeats this - by amending the Aliens Act and the regulations? Let's start there, let's agree, but let's not say that it's possible to generalize, because it's not true. I'm done before the president calls my attention. The signatories of this amendment and this parliamentary group believe that we share the same objective. I believe that neither the Socialist Parliamentary Group nor the Spanish Socialist Workers Party are suspected of not being on the side of human rights and the freedoms of the immigrant population in our country. [[Applauds]] We are not suspects, ladies and gentlemen, and it draws attention to those who have not spoken to us. But still, we are reaching out to them and we are prepared to improve the existing legislative framework at this time. Because that monster of fear - and now I tell the lords of the People's and Citizens' Group - care that goes for you, first for you, occupying spaces. Fortunately, we'll be the usual and the usual by planting faces on them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u90	Thank you very much. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u91	Thank you. The initiative that comes here today, to Congress, the valid one, which we sign as an amendment various groups, is the one that has come after intense work of those who are and those who are in the front line of struggle. It is a proposal that we make our own but that comes, as it has been proposed, from the associative movement for the rights of all people, from the coordinator #ObrimFronteres to the platform #RegularizationAlready. To them and to them thanks, encourage and move on because today nothing ends. This proposal is indeed the concretion of the 'papers for all', a cry that we have heard for a long time, which is being heard in our society, in Catalonia. Almost twenty years after the closure of the Church of the Pi in Barcelona, and since then, many initiatives have been taken for the struggle of migrant people and workers. The last, the Tancada per Drets, of younger people, that has been given in Girona and to whom I also take advantage to send a greeting. A curiosity or not so curious, but rather an issue that explains many of the historical continuities. The closure of the Church of Pi in 2001 in Barcelona was supported by the then rector of the parish, the Mosen Vidal i Aunós, who was the same person as in 1964, being rector of another parish, that of Sant Medir in Sants, hosted the foundation of Workers' Commissions in Catalonia. In other words, the Rector who welcomed the workers persecuted by the dictatorship in 1964, decades later, also welcomed the workers persecuted in democracy. It's hard to think, if that's all. This reminds us of another of the slogans of the struggle: 'Native or foreign, the same working class', because it is exactly the opposite of what the spokesman for VOX has said. It is precisely capitalism that needs to divide the workforce, just as it has historically - and continues to do - between men and women, and one of the manifestations is the wage gap, it also keeps a part of the working class in illegality. Precisely keeping it illegal and denying it what we propose today, regularization, is the root cause of its exploitation and of this pressure to lower wages. People who cannot live normally because they live in fear of being deported, people who cannot be unionized and people who cannot protest that fear and exceptionality are people who can be seen in these situations of exploitation much more easily. This is the ultimate meaning of institutional racism. In this House, very unpleasant expressions are heard to refer to migrants. I will not repeat them precisely so as not to give them more prominence than they have. It is worrying, therefore, that these expressions never have any warning on the part of the Bureau of Congress; this is not the case with other topics. And I will not refer; they know perfectly well which ones I mean: the monarchy, etc. Expressions when talking about migrants are even hate-inciting; speeches that are then translated into violent acts, such as attacks on juvenile centres, do not deserve any reprobation by the Congressional Bureau. It is worrying, but it is also significant, because the references to these migrants do not seem to fit into parliamentary decorum, and that is because they do not exist as political subjects, because they live in political secrecy or in political death, they live in a kind of political underworld. And breaking this apartheid is only possible with regularization. We defend rights for all people who have been looking for a future and who want to identify with the countries that host them. We want this to be one of the founding values of the Catalan Republic and we are pleased that today the majority of Catalan Members, from the three independenceist to the common forces, support this non-law proposal. As long as this is not possible - the founding value of the Catalan Republic - we will support it wherever and wherever we are needed, in the Spanish State or in any State, by anti-racism, solidarity, internationalism and class consciousness. I'll finish the way I started. Thanks to the driving entities. Today nothing ends, today continues this struggle for regularization. Papers for everyone, open borders and regularization now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u92	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Rufián, dear friend Gabriel, you have finished your speech with a sentence that said: please do it right. A while ago, when we discussed the previous point on the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, I heard words like Constitution, flag, homeland, etc., and I thought: it is up to me to intervene later and I believe that what really matters is what comes next; not those grandiose words, but all those people who need our attention, all those people who need us to act in a way that guarantees the rights and freedoms of those who need them to be guaranteed their rights and freedoms. However, today I found that I had an approach and I had to change it. In the face of a non-law proposal in a certain sense, I have come across an amendment which is something else and the first thing I have thought about is: is that doing it right? Is it a positive action in favour of a completely transformed idea, stealing it from the debate and not putting it for the consideration of others so that we could participate in some way? I'm telling you, Gabriel, out of confidence, but I'm telling all the proposing groups: that's not a correct way of acting. The same has happened to me as to Mrs Cancela, and it is that, as we had seen the debate, the bomb goes and goes; the bomb of intolerance, that of the non-existence of the minimum respect for the human condition of many people who are here in an absolutely unprotected situation and who, however, are part of our life as much as any of those who are legal and we are regular, to say the least. That has also made me change the speech to boat soon, because we had a GNP - which I would question in the first two points - in which there were some measures that were somehow intended to associate both things. There was already the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, with the COVID, with which we somehow wanted to regularize the situation of the field workers. Why? Because we were interested, because there was a lot of fruit and vegetables to pick up and if not, that was going to be a disaster. And now, with these measures, although with a GNP, we intend to do a little bit the same; now that we have urgency in every sense, we intend to regularize those with health and social health qualifications. That is, the motivation that the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 had and the motivation that has this non-law proposition in the beginning were not overly generous or supportive, or they were, but with a particular interest through, to say the least. But, of course, on that path - and that is the criticism that I was going to make of the non-law proposal - everything is absolutely upset in French, that is to say, it is broken, because it is no longer possible to understand that criticism of a position of solidarity can be opposed to criticism of the human condition of many people, to recognition and to the impulse of recognition of the dignity of many people; and that has left me absolutely disconcerted. But I do not want to fail to say that the approach underlying the fact that the procedure of discussion of this proposal has been transformed not from law to law from one text to another, to assume, moreover, a text in which there is an infinity of proposals - with all due respect - some rather dogmatic, others too extensive and all with little concreteness or ability to influence the order, does not cease to be a somewhat dogmatic approach. And I want to say, not to the Esquerra Group, but to all the proposing groups, which have become a kind of holy alliance, a kind of alternative left in which initiatives of associative movements are collected as if only they were doing it right and others were doing it wrong - that is why that phrase of 'please do it right' - which is neither fair nor appropriate, because we all do it right, we try to do it right, sometimes with certainty and others, but what we cannot do is come to do it in the legislative procedure in the way it has been done. With all due respect, I would like to ask all the proposers of the amendment and also the author of the initiative not to repeat himself. It is not right that in such important matters as this, in matters that go beyond partyism, in matters that have to do with respect for and the safeguarding of human rights and freedoms, action should be taken in this way. Please don't do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u94	Thank you very much. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u95	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Republican Parliamentary Group brings to this House a non-legislative proposal for the express regularization of immigrants in the areas of health, care and agriculture. A non-legislative proposal that refers in its explanatory statement to immigrants in three professional sectors where the requirements have little or nothing to do with it. On the one hand, we are talking about immigrants who need a degree from specialists in health sciences - doctors, nurses, pharmacists and dentists - and that these professionals with qualifications from specialists obtained in non-EU Member States will have to be within the scope of Royal Decree 459/2010 of 16 April, which regulates the conditions for the recognition of professional effects in foreign titles from specialists in health sciences obtained in non-EU Member States, complying with the Law on the Organization of Health Professions. The positive resolution of the applications for recognition implies granting the said foreign titles the professional effects inherent in the Spanish title, which in each case is appropriate. And the aforementioned recognition would grant the same professional rights and obligations as the Spanish title of specialist - I would like to recall here that it is difficult for a doctor in Spain to be a specialist ten years - and it will be an essential requirement for the exercise in Spain, on its own or for others, of the specialist profession in question and not a mere declaration of responsibility that generates insecurity. I would like to acknowledge from this rostrum the great work that health professionals have done since the beginning of the pandemic, as well as the work they are doing right now when the infections are increasing. We are the country with the highest rate of infection in Europe and we have some exhausted professionals - this Member does not say so, says the WTO or the General Council of Nursing - and they also want to go to work outside Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we have passed during the state of alarm to see in the Official State Gazette the various ministerial orders with human resources measures, orders that sometimes changed the previous one. Specifically, Order 319/2020 of 1 April authorized exceptionally and temporarily the recruitment of health professionals within the scope of Royal Decree 459/2010, for a maximum of three months, which could be extended for another three months. We have moved from being able to hire retired health care workers, in training and students in March to being able to practice even today in the health sciences. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, there are many bodies looking at Spain. The Annual Report on Sustainable Development, published by the University of Cambridge, showed us that Spain is the worst country to handle the crisis or the magazine The Lancet in August placed us as one of the countries with the most community transmission of the virus. This is the reality. Mr. Rufián, I remind you that we are still in a pandemic, unfortunately. Measures such as those proposed to us about doctors and nurses with experience in intensive care in the country of non-Community origin to come to Spain simply, do not guarantee us quality and safety and will have to adapt to the requirements of our legal system. The health professionals are, for the People's Parliamentary Group, the main value of our health system and we have transferred it during the work carried out in the Reconstruction Commission, but unfortunately, after two months of approval, we have seen little. We have seen nothing in the National Human Resources Plan on employment stability, in remunerative policy, planning and professional development, nothing in increases in the staffing of doctors and nurses, nor have we established the number of MIR training places for the next call or that is considered, without further ado, professional disease to the infected, issues that the professionals raise after the applause received every day at eight o'clock in the afternoon. With regard to agricultural employment, we have already asked from my group in this House that the recommendations of the European Union with regard to the recruitment of immigrants be taken into account. Campaigns are over and we do not have the law on agricultural employment. Once again, this Parliament does not come together. Ladies and gentlemen, my group will not support this initiative with regard to the express regularisation of immigrants. My parliamentary group has put forward relevant proposals for health professionals in this Cajal Plan, and what we are seeking is to prevent health professionals from becoming again victims of the unprotected nature of this crisis. Finally, Mr Rufián, the Spanish State will be up to the task if we all respect our legal system and the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u96	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]] Mr Rufián, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u97	Mr President, as we have said here today, we are simply the voice of the platforms, and they ask us to respect the text of the self-amendments in their absolute entirety, so no.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u98	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE COVID-19 TAX PLAN, OR CIVIC SOLIDARITY TAXES TO FIND OUT THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES OF COVID-19. [[File number 162/000239]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u99	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group, on the COVID-19 fiscal plan or civic solidarity taxes to deal with the economic and social consequences of COVID-19. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Here for a few weeks, the toughest weeks of confinement, there was something like an agreement that ran through all the benches. We all understood that the COVID era had changed our era and forced us to change many things, and we all understood that certain elements saved us from fear, saved us from anxiety and saved us from uncertainty. In particular, it was the institutions that allowed a society to cooperate and protect its own. I have repeated this many times in this seat and in this rostrum, but we all know that during the most difficult days it was the State that guaranteed the payment of ERTE, the one that guaranteed guarantees for small and large companies to move forward, it was the State that guaranteed aid and it was the State that guaranteed with the public services that it could take care of the whole world, regardless of where it was born. In short, the time of the COVID showed us that the State, which had never left, was returning to be the guarantor of the common good, because in reality the alternative to a strong State is a weak society. And if you want an example, I can give you an imaginary one. Imagine a country in which servility systematically forgives the taxes of the millionaires, in which political fanaticism produces permanent cuts against public services and privatizations, and a country in which citizenship is therefore weaker, so when a pandemic comes, there are no public services, there are no trackers, there are no doctors, and the situation is out of control, to the point that it ends up segregating the neighbors of the popular neighborhoods treating them as if they were neighbors of the second and having to ask for the intervention of the army. It is not an imaginary country - nor is it a country, no matter how many people say it - it is the Community of Madrid, which is the demonstration that neoliberalism is a direct path to the abyss. In fact, the disjunctive is not between one type of society or another, it is whether to reconstitute society or to be prisoners of the jungle, of the law of salvation who can. And that means giving a discussion about tax reform and giving it forward. It is a great lie that has been said here many times, that the virus does not understand classes and does not understand neighborhoods. Of course he understands, of course he understands square meters at home, of course he understands whether you use public transport or not, of course he understands where you work, of course he understands how the outpatient clinics in your neighborhood are. And it's giving a discussion about the burden-sharing. The discussion about tax reform is about who's going to put how much. The most humble families are already putting a lot in terms of nights of awakening, in terms of anxiety, suffering and sustainability and supporting our entire society in the most difficult times. What we have to ensure is if that effort, that impulse of national solidarity, we turn it into law, we turn it into concrete taxes. The tax system in Spain is a messy mesh full of holes designed for the big ones to go away systematically with rosettes. I said it here and I'll say it again because I think it's a palm tree. In 2018, large technology companies paid on average 2 % of taxes; small and medium-sized enterprises could pay up to 25 %. I am convinced that to all of you, even those who are always more fanatical against the state, this seems absolutely barbaric. We do not have to discuss whether to raise or lower taxes, we have to discuss who, and in Spain we have to discuss balancing them. In 2019, Spain collected half of what we had collected in 2007, even though corporate profits had risen to 23% more. It is not true Laffer's easy curve and that, in fact, if you lower taxes, you collect more. It's a lie, they go down and they collect less. More business benefits, less collection for public coffers. What does this cause? This causes the number of millionaires to double since 2008, with 10% of the Spanish population concentrating half of the national wealth, while 12 million compatriots live in a situation of risk of poverty, but this also causes widespread impoverishment of our country. It causes us to have had a brain drain due to a lack of investment here in R & D & I of up to 87 000 highly qualified Spaniards, whose qualifications we have paid for and then gone to invent, care for or patent outside. It proves that in eight years 23 000 doctors - doctors' schools say - have packed bags to charge more, to be better treated in systems that do take care of public health. Or it causes Germany, for example, to have the resources to make public a part of the laboratory that is investigating the vaccine against COVID and in Spain we are at the European tail in investment in R & D+i. You know what to do; in fact, we all know it. The capital tax has to be raised to 1% for which it has more than EUR 1 million and 2% for which it has more than EUR 2 million. The last tranche of the IRPF has to be raised to pay up to 60%, which has more than EUR 600 000 in revenue. Some may say this is sanding the middle class. Let's face it, I'm talking about 1% of the Spanish population. And at the corporate tax rate, we have to raise the minimum to 15% at the same time as we reduce the share of SMEs to 23%. Bring it up to the big ones, bring it down to the small ones. This is essential - I have already explained it to you on other occasions - for equal opportunities. It is also essential to address ecological challenges and climate change, but it is also essential for the development of our country. It is essential for an entrepreneurial State to lead a future and modern economic policy in our country. [[Show a mobile phone]] What I have here - that we all have because we get it in Congress - is an iPhone. Many times this is put as an example of entrepreneurship: Steve Jobs in a garage started it and was able to carry on a private business in very difficult conditions almost because of his individual merit. London economist Mariana Mazzucate began to study where most of the applications and technological developments embedded in the iPhone come from. And it turns out that the multi-touch screen was developed at Delaware University with public money from the National Science Foundation; the Internet is a project that started with public funding from the Department of Defense; the http of the European laboratory CERN in Geneva; the GPS also with public investment from the Department of Defense; lithium ion batteries were started with public research from the Department of Energy. Every time someone defends ideas of redistribution and of strong state, it has become a kind of coined topic to say: Well, then, so red you won't be if you have an iPhone. When I look at an iPhone in reality what I see is the perfect demonstration that the only possibility of having an industrial development is with the central role of an entrepreneurial state that they then take advantage of and with which many private companies then collaborate. You will answer me with one of the three things that are said more and that I have tried to group together: one, that this is typical of banana republics. Denmark has just proposed setting up a tax on big fortunes to finance pensions; Portugal, a solidarity tax on banking, and the IMF and OECD recommend that Spain raise taxes to those who have the most. Two, you'll say the companies are leaving. But if so, it turns out that Somalia would be a business paradise and the Nordic countries a business desert, when in fact it is exactly the opposite. And three, you will say that money is better in the citizen's pocket. But in this crisis we have found that, when they are badly given, one does not take out of the pocket an ICU or trackers, but that there is a need for public services and a strong and responsible State to take care of. I imagine the vote of the right-wing gentlemen because every time they're in the trance of choosing...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u101	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u102	I'm done, Mr. President. ...to choose between the homeland and the heritage, they always choose the heritage. The progressive groups that allowed the investiture I know they are going to give a positive vote and I thank you. I thank them for sharing a course that must necessarily be that of a strong State that promises and facilitates industrialization and social protection. As for the government groups, I regret that you are not going to vote in favour. I think you know deep down that this is right and we should develop it, as I think you need to be careful. I'm done, Mr. President. The problem is not political polarization, it is social polarization, fear, uncertainty and anxiety among those below, and the expectations set in the progressive government cannot be defrauded. You're going to pay the same price for being brave as you are not. Let's not miss the opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u103	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rodríguez Almeida spoke in defence of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Errejón, I would like to inform you that, after examining your non-law proposal, we share the need for a fiscal plan that is adapted to the situation in which our country has remained after the disastrous management of this social-communist government of President Sánchez. That is the only common goal we share, because since the beginning of the description of the initiative, they already make a big mistake in the first paragraph. They claim that the fiscal pressure in Spain is 7.4 points below the euro area average. This statement has been denied by Newtral, whom you will know well by his facet of verifiers and censors, but you are not the only one who has made that mistake. They themselves cite as persons who have given this false data to the Vice-President, Mr Iglesias, to the Minister of Labour, Mrs Díaz, to the very Minister of Finance, Mrs Montero, who in this case is absolutely unforgivable because she is the minister of the branch. Your Honor, the collection is 7.4 points below the euro area average and not the tax burden. I explain the fiscal reality in Spain. We have a per capita income of 15 points below the euro area average; however, the collection is only 7.4 points lower. That is precisely because of increased fiscal pressure. He spoke of Laffer's curve and also said that corporate tax collection has fallen. Can you imagine what the collection is going to be in the next exercise? These errors lead you to propose measures that would cause the opposite effect of what they claim to be. Far from increasing the collection, it would decrease, among other reasons, because the few who still retain a certain capacity to generate wealth will flee, and I am referring not only to entrepreneurs, but also to workers. I don't know if you have in mind or remember what has happened in Venezuela in the last eighteen years. There are already more than five million people who have fled the country, are in exile or have sought refuge, and of those who have remained in Venezuela, more than 1.5 million are at risk of malnutrition. My curiosity - let me be clear - is whether the proposals you have brought here are exactly the same as you and Vice President Iglesias gave as advisors from the Centre for Political and Social Studies to the government of Hugo Chávez. [[Applauds]] Some of the measures you are proposing are prejudicial to those you say you want to defend. The financial transaction tax, who do you think will pay it? Precisely the clients of the least resourced financial institutions, who will be affected. With regard to the tax on certain digital services, which you want to set up and increase the tax rate initially envisaged to 5%, in La Sixth you have ensured that one third of Spanish pupils do not have the Internet at home. What do you think's gonna happen to them? Are they going to make it even more difficult for families with fewer resources to access the Internet in this pandemic situation? [[Applauds]] Mr Errejon, in a very constructive spirit we have tabled an amendment with what is really necessary, among other things, to reduce unnecessary mastodontic spending. You are a very eloquent example, this year you will earn more than EUR 100 000, among other things because you are president of a Commission that has never met, which is absolutely useless. [[Applauds]] That's what needs to be adjusted. Looking for more income? Well, it also reduces expenses. Look, I encourage you to recognize all those Spaniards who walk the name of Spain with pride, those workers and entrepreneurs. Now that they're looking at a lot of streets, maybe they could take advantage of those new streets because don't forget it's a good birth to be grateful. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u105	Thank you. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u106	Thank you very much, President. I believe that this government has been absolutely transparent with its fiscal road map. The Government's fiscal strategy has always been to take into account the taxation of the challenges and economy of the twenty-first century, and here are the taxes, the new tax figures of certain digital services and the tax on financial transactions. Also advance in the progressive so that more who has and receives more who needs it most; a road map with a clear sign of identity: that under no circumstances will taxes be raised to the middle class or to the working class, to SMEs or to the self-employed. Mr Errejón, we agree with you that taxation must be fair and progressive, a taxation that provides sufficient resources for citizens to enjoy the welfare state. We agree that tax reforms must be addressed precisely in order to deepen this progressivity. We also agree on the priority of the fight against tax fraud; it makes no sense to talk about fiscal escalation if we do not simultaneously fight those who evade it for their own benefit and to the detriment of citizens as a whole. And we agree that there is a European fiscal gap in which we will also have to work. As you see, we agree on the diagnosis, which is why we have tabled an amendment to your GNP, because we want you to also see the coincidence when we talk about a current context in which it is so important what, how and, above all, when. The OECD points out the need for structural reforms, and we agree, but also warns that action should not be taken prematurely so as not to jeopardize economic recovery. The changing scenario of the COVID-19 health crisis and its economic impact obliges us to reflect on these reforms, to deal with them in a progressive and surely at different speeds, so that fair taxation also takes into account the real economic prospects of this pandemic and the needs of the productive model. If a lesson we have learned from this pandemic - and you described it in your initial intervention - it is the importance of the public sector, as well as seeing two different ways of managing a crisis: that of the neoliberal model imposed by the lords of the People's Party or that of the social-democratic model. You were talking about bravery, it's not about asking for courage when it's already proven; it's about working to get it; leaving everything in the hands of the saver who can of the People's Party, or building a safety mattress for businesses, families and workers; rescuing banks or rescuing people. Do you remember the cuts in wages and redundancies, or the ERTEs, the protections to the self-employed and the liquidity of the companies? Among the most traumatic images we all have of the 2008 crisis are precisely those of the mortgage evictions, cuts or cuts in the supplies that many families suffered. Mortgage moratoriums, rent moratoriums and security of supply have now been promoted. A minimum income was always denied and there is the minimum vital income. I believe that the Socialist Party in coalition with the United Nations We have shown that courage. There is one before and one after in crisis management. As you rightly say, the difference is also imposed in the tax field. Rajoy starred in the biggest tax increase in our country's history; he came up to forty times the taxes, applied a tax voraciousness regardless of its origin and that accompanied by an unusual tax amnesty. All this having promised, as you will remember, in an election campaign that would not raise taxes, so that the Spaniards will have to listen when they speak as former president, who endorses Churchill's words by stating that the best diet for a politician is to eat his own words. Do yourselves a favor, gentlemen of the People's Party, and give up two speeches: that of the fight against corruption, because it is obvious, and that of how a crisis is managed. They've packed too much of Churchill's diet and lost all credibility. [[Rumors]] In conclusion, we have the road map, there will be new developments and changes at two speeds, in the short and medium term - I am finished -; some will be envisaged in the forthcoming budgets of 2021, budgets that are vital to reflect the economic reality of our country, budgets that have to be ambitious. The decisions we all make in the coming months will depend to a large extent not only on how we will emerge from this crisis but on how we will be tomorrow; whether we will be a more cohesive and just society or whether we continue with inequalities. If we want and believe in a strong welfare state, we have an opportunity: budgets. It's up to you all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u107	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. What has become clear, Mr Errejón, is the admiration you feel for a great country such as the United States, for its political system and for its freedom of the market. It's okay if you recognize him. Having said that, I believe that now is not the time to raise taxes, but to give liquidity to businesses and to help, above all, self-employed people and SMEs. I think we all have in our heads a lot of people who are having a bad time, who are not going to open up their business and, therefore, it is time to help them. I have doubts as to what you have submitted from until when the conviction with which you have submitted it will last. I think you have said this with conviction, but the Socialist Party has already put an amendment to it. Therefore, the question is whether you are going to put this as a condition for some budgets, which is when you have to put it black on white. Are you going to do it or are you not going to do it? Is your conviction going to last as long as we can, that once you're in government you've already forgotten everything, or are you going to last something longer? That is what we need to know and the Socialist Party will have to answer to that. It is clear that they have spoken today of common places; we will see that they pay more those who have more, that yes, that already, that is stronger, etc., but is this going to come in the budgets? Because so far, as far as I know, just like you do, no one has seen a coma in the budgets of neither income nor expenditure. I don't think anyone. It seems here that everyone is negotiating budgets, but for the moment, the only one who has cut the budget is Bildu, who has managed to be a political actor more than any other and that the prisoners are approaching the Basque Country. That's what they got. They are the only ones who have achieved something, the others, except that in Catalonia they have achieved something, which I think has not been so, except promises from the table, the others nothing. Are you going to get that which you have raised here today to appear in the budgets? That's where we'll see if you're convincing and, above all, if you're consistent with what you're saying. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u109	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Botran Pahissa.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u110	Thank you, President. We will vote in favour of the proposal. Still, we regret that it does not prosper, as it seems from the interventions that have preceded us. More than anything considering that without changes in taxation, without sharing wealth, what comes over us will be nothing but cuts, unemployment, greater accumulation of wealth and, therefore, of political power. That's the way if we don't have an alternative on the table. We already have some balloons probe in recent weeks in order to extend the retirement age, perhaps freeze the salaries of officials, etc. Despite the harsh economic situation, the fiscal policy of which one day was called the most progressive government in history - I do not know if they continue to say - it is soft - because it is generous - with the rich and the powerful. The Google rate and the Tobin rate, which are the only ones that have been brought here, were already from previous legislatures and have been raised below the demands of what the driving entities have historically been claiming. Therefore, the only thing we have black on white in taxation, for the moment, are those two rates that, I insist, are below what the driving forces are proposing. Today we see that they will reject a new proposal, when the situation - some data have already been given - is of tendency to inequality, of tendency to accumulation and concentration of wealth and, therefore, of political power and of further influence on political decisions. It is estimated that Spanish companies have EUR 140 billion in tax havens. It has also been said that the richest 10% concentrates half of the wealth in the Spanish state. To give concrete examples, there are IBEX companies, powerful companies, that gained billions of profits last year. In conclusion, without progressive taxation, without recovering the money from the bank bailout, which we remembered again these weeks with the merger of CaixaBank and Bankia, without these initiatives there is no fund for the more than necessary social policies. Therefore, if there are no measures for those who have the most to pay more, the future that awaits us in the Spanish State, despite the most progressive government in history, is unemployment, cuts and loss of rights and well-being.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u111	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u112	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope I do not give you much work because this time, and only this time, I am not going to talk about the monarchy, not even about the hypothetical successes of Euskal Herria Bildu in budgetary negotiations that have not been given. I'm going to talk about what's going on, I'm going to talk about this point about tax reform. Euskal Herria Bildu is going to support the initiative that brings More Country to this Chamber because it is nothing different than what we have been holding up and saying since those ailing days of March, in which we were all shaken by a pandemic and somehow moved the parameters of political construction of this society. And we are going to do so because then we said that a profound tax reform was necessary and now we believe that it is even more necessary. Moreover, it must be progressive and, if I am accepted by the term, equidistributive, and we see these things in the initiative before us. We would like you to be more ambitious on some points - the same ambition that you claimed from the Government and that we share - but in any case we will support you. What will be more surprising to us is to see how the fan zone of Spanish constitutionalism votes against something that it does not do but support what article 31.1 of the Spanish Constitution points out, which is fiscal progressiveness. But, well, that will be the small contradictions of this huge state, which is said. We will also support it because a fiscal shock plan is urgently needed to curb the anti-democratic involution agenda carried out by neoliberalism and which has very evident peaks of depth in some places. There are thirty-seven neighborhoods in Madrid that are experiencing it with great intensity and I am not the one to explain to them what is the neoliberal agenda on the basis of cuts and the denial of fundamental rights for a part of the population, those who have less, either in the form of health professionals or in the form of education professionals. But also, as the initiative points out, we are going to support it because if in 2008 what was done was to increase public spending, increase cuts and increase exemptions, what we see now is what we want to do in this wave of anti-democratic and neoliberal involution is to deepen further on those three issues, including questioning the right to live decently to replace it with another, let it be the right to survive. This is the only way to understand the segregation they used to say or the watch. But I also believe that it must be said that this government, the current government or at least the majority of the current government, has had time to do different things in fiscal matters as well. And I'm not saying they haven't made some, but it's not the best example of evictions to bring here to this rostrum because in 2019 - if I'm not mistaken and my data is not incorrect - there were 17,000 evictions in the Spanish state. I believe that there is matter and there is a way to go. If this is the reality that they want to impose or that they want to focus on an important part of the Spanish state's citizenship, if they want to do so for the working class, it is normal for us to oppose and vote in favour of a profound tax reform, because what we are seeing today is danteco. It is dantesco because they are confined in houses, they are overcrowded in means of transport and, if ever, they want to narcotize in betting rooms, where I already wish them less success than Fabra with the lottery. That is the reality that we want to combat and that we believe that, even partially, it is done with a tax reform like the one that is being proposed here. We believe that a tax on big fortunes is necessary. In 2012, when Euskal Herria Bildu ruled in Gipuzkoa, he already carried out a tax on the great fortunes, by the way with the support of the Basque Socialist Party. Therefore, we believe that that path that we started at the time, because it was up to us in this part of southern Europe to be pioneers, it is good that it could be emulated elsewhere. We will support this because we believe that we need to increase taxes on financial institutions. Moreover, not only in 10 points - and this is one of the things that we think is short - we believe that the first thing they would have to do is to give us back the 60.6 billion euros and, from there, yes, to raise the tax tranche because it is quite cheap for them to increase the tax tranche if we forget all the money that was taken from the pocket of all citizens and that they do not seem to plan to return. I could continue to skew point by point, but, in any case, I also have two questions. We agree that the focus should be on income from work and not so much on income from savings, because income from work is what we all have and it is what most people have while income from savings are always staying in the capacities of fewer people. I end with another question. It seems important to us that income from social security should be increased, especially by eliminating the tranches or maximum contributions because it seems to us indecent that there are executives who jump out of business or retire with millions of indemnities when we are rationing the money to the pensioners. This is what should be done in a State that wants to be democratic, that wants to be fair, that wants to be united and that wants, as we say, to be social and democratic in law, which is the redistribution of wealth. That is why we will support the initiative. We believe that there is a lack of a COVID rate for all companies that have made a lot of money during this pandemic, that there are and are recognizable; we believe that there is also a lack of a green tax, because that is another reality that is touching us at the door, which is that of climate change. [[The lady]] In any case - and I finish now -, what we believe is that a tax reform is needed that will help those who have tightened their belts until they have no more holes can live with a little more laziness while those who have never tightened their belts - perhaps because they carry straps with or without a flag, I don't care - can start living with a little less laziness.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u114	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. I'll be very brief. We share the need for a new fiscal approach, but we do not believe that the best way to push forward this tax reform is through a non-legislative proposal. We are talking about a tax reform, in addition, in this context, in which there are some taxes in which we have regulatory capacity and competition. It will therefore be the outlaws to whom their amendment or revision, if any, corresponds. Nor do we share that there is, as you say, harmonisation for all the autonomous communities when we in certain taxes, as I have said, have competence. With regard to the financial transaction tax and the Google rate, we believe that it makes little sense at the moment to speak in this proposal of the same, because they are projects that have already been dealt with in the Commission, whose amendments in the sense that you propose in this initiative have already been made, debated and rejected, two projects which are also in the Senate for discussion of these amendments. We can agree on the revision of the sicavs or socimis. In Euskadi they tax like other companies, they have no modification or deduction. We also agree on the part of the fight against tax fraud. But, having said all this, we are at a critical moment in which we believe that economic recovery and the reactivation of employment must be promoted. Therefore, bearing in mind that a posteriori a tax reform is going to be needed, we believe that this must be addressed in this context, a context in which levels of GDP are being restored, and it will be in this context when, in our view, a serious reflection of the tax system is to be made, because so populist is to say at the moment that everything is being resolved with a rise in taxes as to say the opposite, that it is being resolved with a fall in taxes. There are no magic recipes, no simple solutions to complex problems. The main instrument at the disposal of a Government to intervene in its economy - we therefore believe that serious and restful reflection is necessary - is budgetary policy to adjust or modify certain taxes and which have a greater path, because the economy and investment require stability. A tax reform, in our view, must at least take account of increasing the resources of administrations to maintain and improve public services and to commit investments, while generating economic activity and quality employment, a reform that must be conditioned on indebtedness, on the evolution of the economy and also on the extraordinary resources that can come from Europe at the moment and that we believe must be carried out, of course, with much dialogue and consensus. We believe that any tax reform must be addressed with responsibility, information and transparency. Therefore, you have to answer to what, for what, and for whom. It gives me the feeling on this subject, and I am sorry to say this, that today it seems that support for this proposal is being justified or not by making allegations of who is more progressive or who advocates greater social justice. I don't think that's the way. I believe that a tax reform, as I said, requires dialogue and much consensus. Finally, I am glad that Bildu says that he supports this non-law proposal or those progressive reforms between Podemos and the PSOE, because many of the reforms that are being proposed are already foreseen in our taxes, and it seems that what is worth here is not worth. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u116	President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been experiencing an unprecedented health crisis for months, a pandemic with an impact on our society that we will never forget, perhaps the most difficult moments we have experienced in the last century and with consequences that will leave an indelible mark on our memory. We have been watching for months how our State Security Forces and Bodies, our Armed Forces, farmers, supermarket staff, cleaning, essential services, our teachers, our teachers and, of course, our health care workers are working very hard. Undoubtedly, all - the first line health workers - have done a very hard job, with a physical and emotional impact of those we are not yet aware of. For most, possibly, these have been the most difficult moments in their professional lives. And what about the scientists, who are investigating more effective counterclockwise treatments and a vaccine that will help us all get through this pandemic? It is also fair to stress the difficulty of their struggle. Citizens have also had to make very difficult but necessary decisions for all Spaniards, such as supporting each and every vote of the state of alarm. We have worked tirelessly on a Reconstruction Commission to seek solutions and consensus, because it was also very difficult to reach such agreements. This week we find a non-law proposal that has registered More Country, with which we see that they go to the easy, everyone doing difficult things and More Country goes to the easy: raise taxes in a generalized way, as always. Every time they see a problem they try to solve it with a tax, when something they don't like they try to put a tax on it. In difficult times easy solutions do not work because they have traps. I am sure they have not stopped to think about the impact that a massive rise in taxes would have on a weakened economy as has never been seen. And they haven't stopped to think about it because they don't care, because they're worried about adapting the reality of their political dogma that indiscriminately raising taxes is always good. If companies suffocate, they will go away and employment will disappear. Yes, believe me, if you want me to come here more R+D+i, Mr Errejón, don't start raising taxes because investments will fail. Are you aware of the economic data showing the critical situation of our economy? Do you think that suffocating companies that are still resisting and still maintaining jobs would solve the lack of solvency that this government has in revenue right now? I also wonder, why don't you look at the expense item? Yes, yes, of superfluous expenses, not important, superfluous, ineffective. As early as 2019, the AIReF clearly pointed out at the end of the first phase of the Spending Review, where it analysed expenditure items from the public budget for more than 33 billion, that there were 14 billion euros per year of inefficient expenditure, over which there is no control in its management or its purposes. To all this, we have to add the costs of creating the most expensive government in our country's history, the current one, and, in addition, add all the advisers that this government has placed without any control or transparency. How would you feel, Mr Errejón, about 14 billion more a year and what can we do to reduce the number of ministries in order to use them efficiently in what the families in our country really need? Wouldn't be bad, would it? Ladies and gentlemen, raising taxes on businesses that can still be maintained is not the best thing. Another question I ask you is why they are not based on the Commission's economic opinion. Because it seems that it is also difficult for them to build on a consensus in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, all the Spaniards have been doing things they have never thought about for months, living in very hard times, many companies have closed their doors and are losing a lot of jobs, and the worst is that, unfortunately, this will continue to happen if the necessary measures are not taken from this government. It is now up to us to continue to do difficult things, to reach a political truce to leave those who need us at the centre: families, our self-employed, our businesses; to fight for budgets that are focused, sensible and for all Spaniards, not just for a few; to add efforts to have recovery plans to present Europe to make efficient use of the 140 billion European funds. We also need to help people who are in a situation of social exclusion, invest more in health and education. You still have to do very difficult things, but you have to do them. It will be very difficult, no doubt. Citizens will continue to work to achieve this because we do not come to politics to continue doing the usual, for that there were already professionals of the easy, but to do the right, to complicate our lives trying to make it easier for citizens. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u118	Thank you, President. Mr Errejón, we are grateful for the debate on this GNP and for the possibility of putting forward various proposals on tax matters here. We share the urgent need to introduce relevant measures in a context of social, economic and health crisis; a crisis that is highlighting the miseries of an unjust and inefficient State, the miseries of an obsolete model based on the privileges of a few above many others; a model where labour income is taxed more than capital income, where one SME and one self-employed worker pays more than a large company, where millions and millions are lost each year due to the fraud and circumvention of large companies and fortunes, without having the necessary resources for their control. We are a republican and left-wing party that believes in social justice, which defends that those who have the most must contribute more. We believe in a welfare state, in high-quality and well-funded public services that guarantee equal opportunities and therefore, although we reaffirm that our goal is the Catalan Republic, we do not forget the day-to-day management and support the vast majority of its proposals. But you know what? That we have serious doubts that the vast majority of them will become a reality in the Spanish State, and we have seen this many times. Of all his proposals, there are some that could already have materialized. I am talking, for example, of raising the tax on certain digital services from 3 to 5 % or that derivative contracts on foreign exchange and raw materials - the most speculative products - are taxed by the tax on financial transactions. These taxes have already been finalised in this Congress and my parliamentary group has tabled amendments to this effect. The result: zero, not one approved. The supposed most progressive government in the history of the PSOE and the United We may not have accepted one of us. We have little hope, therefore, that silent measures will be introduced that will end, once and for all, with the regime privileges of 78. There are too many times when we have found that this is not possible and we reaffirm over and over again that the best option for guaranteeing decent living conditions and equal opportunities is the Catalan Republic. Finally, we would like to point out that we do not share your proposals for tax harmonization of taxes handed over to the Autonomous Communities. We denounce the tax dumping systematically exercised by communities such as Madrid, which, benefiting from the capital effect, has exercised unfair competition by reducing taxes to a minimum. This demonstrates once again the failure of the autonomous financing system, which must be fully reviewed. The solution does not go to the detriment of the already scarce fiscal autonomy of the communities. Therefore, although we are in favour of a tax on big fortunes, and we have set it out on several occasions, we do not believe that this is the most appropriate form. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u120	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. Mr Errejon, the truth is that it would be very difficult to disagree with what you have raised here for many reasons. The first is because its proposal almost literally reproduces what we have defended since the Confederal Group throughout this crisis, and because, moreover, it expresses a reality that is indisputable: that there cannot be a least sustainable decent way out of this crisis unless it is with a minimum of redistribution of the collectively created wealth. I was listening to some of the previous interventions and I was thinking about what revolutionary Johan Maynard Keynes's thinking has become in the times we live in. Keynes, who was a progressive liberal, a sensible liberal, would surely have made it very clear that it would be a waste to replicate the austerity policies used in 2008, which led to the most absolute economic disaster and led to a great increase in inequalities. But I would also have said something else that is important: I would have remembered that we cannot get out of a recession like this only through debt; and that in order for today's investments not to be tomorrow's cuts, we really need to complement these policies with progressive fiscal policies. Keynes would surely have remembered that in the case of Spain this certainly has to do with protecting the working classes, with supporting the modern and innovative sectors of the economy, but also with decisively juggling the rent sectors and the sectors that live and survive simply from tax evasion. We therefore agree with the diagnosis, we agree with many of the proposals, but I also believe that it is not just a question of having ideas, but of having the strength to get these ideas started. I therefore believe that the great challenge that the progressive majorities, the plural left-wing majorities in this House, are going to face is to get that force to become proposals that are included in a budget to change people's concrete lives. It seems to me that here the great difficulty that we are going to have seen here today: it is the certile opposition of radicalised right-wings who have power here, but who have power outside of here, and who have a very concrete role in this historic moment, that is to prevent this crisis from being resolved with a minimum of fiscal justice and to act practically as a shock group of that rentist bloc, of that parasitic bloc that only thrives in high corruption and that only thrives in this economy of short-term benefit. We have heard them here today, they have spoken very clearly, we know that sometimes they compete among themselves to see who has the biggest flag of the mask, but then patriotism shakes them when it comes to demanding something as normal as that the richest ones also comply with the fiscal obligations that are required of the rest of the citizenry. We have seen them here boasting of courage by criminalizing the working, indigenous and migrant classes, while, for example, they forgive the property tax on the great fortunes in Madrid, so that millions of euros that could be allocated to respirators, to lift hospitals, to analysis end up being lost from the public coffers. They come here to face these vulnerable sectors, but they can allow these same rights, for example, that in Andalusia income is drastically cut at the public university, in science, in research, but that, at the same time, it is renounced to charge the sections of the IRPF to the highest strata, as if that did not deteriorate public services. Therefore, what I think is that this is the challenge we have, that is: how to face a right that is really in a plan of disloyal and insolidary insubordination to a thing as simple as the principle of fiscal progressiveity, which is Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, which is Article 53 of the Italian Constitution, which is Article 104 of the Constitution of Portugal, that is, which is part of the best of the tradition of European social constitutionalism, as simple as that. And it seems to me that, from that point of view, the challenge we have is to build the broadest possible social and political alliances so that this programme that we share can be effectively implemented in practice; and that does not mean in any case defending a dangerous social-communist programme, it means something as simple - defending fiscal justice - as defending social cohesion, as guaranteeing the future of the most vulnerable families and, I would say, taking advantage of it. I would like to finish by recalling a phrase by Louis Brandeis, who was a member of the Supreme Court of the United States between 1916 and 1939, which said a rather simple thing: You can have concentration of wealth or you can have democracy, but both things at the same time do not; you have to choose. And I assure you, Mr Errejón, that we are going to choose democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr. Bas Corugeira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u122	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First, I would like to clarify to the Socialist spokesman that the increase in taxes made by the People's Party was a consequence - if you don't remember, ask your colleagues - of the ruin that led to Spain's painful management by the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]] You left 70 billion holes and Spain about to be intervened. They ruined Spain once, and the worst part is they're about to ruin it again. That said, say it all: that, when the conditions allowed, the People's Party again lowered taxes. [[Rumors]] Focusing on the proposal of More Country, once again the left hides its true intentions behind a populist slogan. Today it calls fiscal reform of civic solidarity - that is what remains - to a crude rise in taxes without more. You want to keep knitting your fiscal shield always disguised as that social shield that you quote so much. And today Mr Errejón suggests that this proposal is conceived as a result of the situation caused by COVID, and this is not true. As the representative of Podemos has already pointed out, the spokesman, this is a cut-and-run of the United Nations program We may have presented for the elections on 28 April last year and on that date the virus was not present and Mr Errejón may also want to score a little, since perhaps, given his proximity to the government, he handles the information that this is going to be the line of the hidden fiscal agenda with which the government will focus the next budgets. Mr. Errejón, you've missed work and you've missed elegance. Therefore, a new manipulation, another deception, this time from More Country, deception that joins all those that this coalition government is subjecting to citizens. And so many times have they deceived that the citizens no longer believe them and as shown by the results of the recent elections in Galicia where the citizens endorsed with an absolute majority the solvency of the project of the People's Party, they made the populism of the United We can disappear from the Galician Parliament and they made reap one of the worst results of the Socialist Party for its poor management at the head of the Government of Spain. They did not believe Pedro Sánchez, they did not believe the Minister of Labour, Yolanda Díaz, and they did not believe the candidate and deputy in this House Antón Gómez-Reino. With regard to the measures contained in the More Country proposal, I must say that we are not surprised. In this area, whatever the economic scenario, the left's approach is always to drown citizens with more taxes, but this time with an aggravating factor, they intend to interfere in those autonomous communities - which, by the way, are often governed by the People's Party - which, in exercising their powers and thanks to good economic and social management, have decided to reduce their taxes. This, Your Honor, is intolerable. You intend to force the citizens of these autonomys to pass by the box so that the autonomous communities where the left is malgoverned are not evident. Ladies and gentlemen of More Country, gentlemen of Podemos, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, at the moment we cannot expect a rise in taxes that will make the economy colder. Today, Spain is the country with the worst economic and health indicators in the European Union. Our annual fall in gross domestic product is over 22% and we have the highest unemployment rate in Europe, almost 6 million people depend on a subsidy. And this is no coincidence, we have the worst government we could have to manage this crisis. I remind you that before the COVID economic growth had already been revised downwards up to three times. Therefore, forget about tax increases. Italy, Germany, France, all these countries have put in place ambitious plans for the revival of their economies, including in them a significant reduction in their taxes, contrary to what you propose, Mr Errejón. Even the French Prime Minister acknowledged as a mistake having raised taxes in previous crises, a mistake that the left of our country is committed to making. Applying these measures proposed by Mr Errejon would contribute to further impoverishment of our country, a country where, by the way, some members of the Government have already commented on the possibility of touching the pensions and salaries of public workers, cuts that Mr Sánchez would vote for the second time. Therefore, what is right is not to raise taxes, what is right now is to undertake an ambitious plan of reforms that stimulates consumption with which to reactivate our economy and which allows us to save jobs, businesses and our self-employed. It is up to us to support sectors as important to our economy as the tourism sector by lowering the VAT on its services, it is up to us to lower the company tax and the IRPF. In short, it is quite the opposite of what Mr Errejón proposes, except for the fight against tax fraud, which is something that must be vigorously pursued.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u123	Mr. Bas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u124	I'm running out, President. Therefore, today I announce here that our group will present a non-legislative proposal that will include the solutions that the People's Party proposes to manage this crisis, solutions that have already been publicly pointed out by our president, Pablo Casado, and that, among other measures, pose an important reduction in taxes and the suppression of others and solutions that are in line with those applied in the main European economies and that are also based on the experience of having managed...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u125	Mr. Bas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u126	I'm finishing up. ... Two very severe crises which the Socialist Party had left us and which they had repeatedly denied. With the implementation of these solutions we will be able to reactivate our economy and improve employment, and this will bring with it an increase in the collection that will guarantee quality public services and the improvement of the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the People's Party. It will be good for the whole of Spain and it will be good for the whole of the Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u127	Thank you, Mr. Bas. Mr Errejón Galván, in order to know whether you are going to accept any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u128	We don't accept any.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u130	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the situation of the temporary troops of Trop and Marineries who have reached or will reach the age of forty-five years during the current situation of health, economic and social crisis. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u131	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, almost evenings, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to make a special mention dedicated today to the Legion, to our Legion, for the centenary that, as you all know, has fulfilled the Spanish Legion two days ago. To all the Legionary Knights - the present, the past and the future - my sincere congratulations wishing the Government would be pleased to grant that Community Laureate to the whole Legion as soon as possible, because I believe it is of justice and they are all demanding it and waiting for it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to tell you a story; actually, I am going to tell you three. I'm going to tell you the story of Marta, a corporal in a prestigious regiment that has been the regiment's hairdresser for the last 15 years. When she turned forty-five, she was expelled from our Armed Forces and failed to find work at any hairdresser's shop because the Ministry of Defence forgot to validate those fifteen years with a professional hairdresser's training. Result: no jobs. Or that of Manolo, waiter in another regiment during his last twelve years of service. Manolo was unable to consolidate the slightest training as a waiter and, therefore, was caught up in unemployment. Or Antonio's, helicopter mechanic in a unit. When he completed his forty-five-year commitment and was expelled from the Armed Forces, he was not approved for any course on the helicopter he was driving. The result of all this I'm telling you is that the three are currently working on their contracted units through private companies, doing the same work they were doing before. But, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the point. They want to be proud to wear the uniform of the Spanish army and we can't take it off by hiring them, which is how they will have done so that Manolo will end up in the very same helicopter unit doing the maintenance of the same helicopter he was doing before being expelled. We have asked the minister, Mrs Robles, about the expulsion of our soldiers and sailors from the Armed Forces, but she has never answered us clearly, although we understand everything: that if you don't touch today, that if you have to talk about something else, that if you already knew when you got into the Armed Forces. These are answers that no one would expect from the Minister of Defense. Mrs Robles tells us about the tireless work for Spanish society of all the men and women who make up the Armed Forces and the solidarity role they have played in this crisis. These are words with which, of course, we cannot agree more. It tells us that she speaks for all the Armed Forces and speaks for all of them, but it is that this motion is not about all the Armed Forces, but about a part of them, and precisely about the most important part, ladies and gentlemen, our scale of troops and navy, the most disadvantaged of all our Armed Forces. If the precariousness in our Armed Forces begins to be alarming, today we speak of the most precarious of them all. Or is it not precarious to receive a mileurist wage? This is the payroll of a corporal of our Armed Forces with sixteen years of service. [[Show a document]] This cable, which already has five trienniums, pays a salary of 1083 euros; this is the payroll of the month of August. Collects 1083 euros after sixteen years of service. He is a professional who is willing to give his blood and even his life for all of you, ladies and gentlemen, because that is his obligation and that is his commitment. And this person who pays 1000 euros when he turns forty-five, we leave her on the street. That's a democratic shame. [[Applauds]] It is true that the contract they have signed has a completion date, but like many other employment contracts. Don't you criticize that as precarious? Why do some groups, including those that support this government, hear them every day talk about ending temporary contracts? Don't you think it's temporary to extinguish them when they're forty-five years old, a biological extinction? Isn't that precarious anymore? Ladies and gentlemen, the 2006 Act also had articles that would validate the training of our soldiers and sailors, but nothing has been done about this here. The Ministry of Defence has done absolutely nothing. We showed it to her and disassembled it to the minister last week. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, by the way, this is an issue on which you cannot be absent either. They are as guilty as the socialist governments because you voted for that Zapatero law. We all agree that the 2006 Troop and Marinery Act is the cause of these evils. Why, instead of holding these excuses, don't we solve the problem? Why don't we attack the bottom of the drama? Why don't we do the one thing we can do, which is to change the law and correct this terrible injustice? What we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, is a humble motion. I am not going to deceive anyone, let alone the professionals, who give everything to protect and serve all the Spaniards, but this aims to discover to Spanish society the drama to which our soldiers and sailors are thrown because of an unjust and poorly executed law, a law that will abandon until the year 2037 to more than 53 000 men and women and that will cost us 9 billion. Can we really dispense with all that human capital and leave ourselves on the path of EUR 9 billion? Who wins with this? They do not win the Armed Forces, nor do they win the expelled professionals, nor do they win the State. If it doesn't benefit anyone, why don't we change the law and save ourselves this nonsense? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of the United Nations We can, it is you who can change this. It is only from the government that it is possible to bring into this House a new law that modifies the status of things. You know this problem, you have supported it at other times. They voted in favour of a non-legislative motion calling for exactly the same thing not long ago in this Congress of Deputies. At least the People's Group is not hiding. He did not do anything to remedy that issue, nor did he vote in favour of that non-law proposal. Gentlemen of the PSOE and the United We can, are you going to turn your back on our soldiers and sailors again? Are you going to talk about precariousness and public service again? Will they continue to condemn more than 53,000 public servants to social welfare? Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Madam President - a country cannot give this treatment to its public servants and especially to those who risk their lives to protect the lives of others. We are failing as a country that never fails us, those with whom we can count for everything. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, for what, to end up losing money and leaving thousands of families abandoned, without support, at the mercy of precariousness?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u132	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u133	I'm done, Madam President. This law is as unfair as it is absurd. It harms the soldiers, deprives us of their experience and added value and leaves us a considerable economic hole. We know that the strength of this motion is to send a message to the Government. Let's make it loud and clear, because we've already done it on other occasions. Ladies and gentlemen, they're soldiers, not machines. They have all our respect and recognition, so let's give them the dignity they've earned. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Fernández-Roca Suárez has the floor to defend the amendment tabled by the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. I join in congratulating the Legion on its centenary. [[One Member: Long live the Legion!- Several Members: Long live!-Applause]] I would like to inform you that my parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of the motion for compromise and loyalty to Spain and our military. We have, of course, recorded an amendment to the joint text which has been accepted by the proposing group. This motion is part of a clear exercise of political opportunism, because it has been presented the same week as the military has manifested itself in decent pay. For your ladies and gentlemen to see the question of wage insecurity in the Armed Forces, I will give you a very graphic example. A pilot lieutenant in combat of a Eurofighter aircraft, a fourth generation fighter, whose economic cost is above EUR 60 million, charges the same as a mosso d'esquadra level 14 of the Administration, ten levels below, mosso who receives 2.5 times the salary of a soldier of the same professional category. There are soldiers who barely reach the interprofessional minimum wage despite the fact that the military are ready to serve Spain 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. [[Applauds]] They have, for example, demonstrated this in the implementation of Operation Balmis. Militia is a profession that requires a high degree of service vocation. However, to the misfortune of our military, vocation does not pay mortgages, does not pay children's schools and does not pay personal loans. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, in the statement of reasons for your motion, the military will be expelled from the Armed Forces. Parliamentarians are required to be more rigorous in the legislative technique to be used. Let me therefore correct you: completion of commitments. Non-expulsion, because in the legal case of expulsion of a military member of the Armed Forces there are other very different legal causes that do not come to the present case. [[Applauds]] It follows from the assessment of the first point of the petitum that his lordships of Citizens have forgotten those temporary military officers who are extended the commitment beyond forty-five years, all in order to comply with the established requirement - article 17 of Law 8/2006 - to have completed at least eighteen years of service in the Armed Forces in order to be able to access the status of reservist of special availability. In addition, in our amendment we have called for the inclusion of the military who acceded to this status prior to the current economic crisis, all in order to avoid an unfair situation of discrimination between the military of the same promotion. The Troop and Marinery Act 2006 was a legal amendment to Act 17/1999. The purpose of this law was to provide a solution to the very low recruitment rates in the Armed Forces by legally linking the military through a chain of temporary contracts called commitments and establishing a special legal-public relationship that hardly fits into our magna charter. There are no two different laws in the Spanish public administration to regulate the same profession. The doctrine and jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union are very clear with regard to the abuse of temporary recruitment. This cannot be supported on budgetary grounds, and the Ministry of Defence is resorting to temporary contracts to cover basic and ordinary needs of the Armed Forces. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the 2006 Act should be repealed. The abulia shown both by socialist governments and by popular governments in recent years towards the military has dire consequences, a disbursement of more than €9 billion over the next 20 years and some 53 000 soldiers who will unfortunately go on to thicken the queues of unemployment, a massive ERE that condemns our veterans to live from a subsidy of just over €500, something very typical of this social-communist government. For its part, the People's Parliamentary Group has had to take on a leading role and has limited itself to presenting a proposal that would delay the problem another two years. Ladies and gentlemen, abandon once and for all the patch policy that is causing so much damage to the Spaniards. But let us not be discouraged in this House, this hussy has a solution: the proposal for a single military career, which has been presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group and which includes a transitional provision to circumvent the unjust veto of the Government on its handling.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u136	Mr. Fernández-Roca, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u137	I'm done, President. Members of Parliament for Citizens, a few days ago in this very rostrum they said that our proposal for a law led to nothing; however, in their motion they urge the Government to push forward this law. We are glad that you have changed your mind, something suspiciously common in your political formation, and we extend our hand both to you and to the rest of the formations of the parliamentary arch to support our parliamentary initiative. Put aside spurious partisan interests and guide yourself to the best compass: the well-being of the Spaniards, because in the defense of Spain and its Armed Forces we all fit. Ladies and gentlemen, less words and more facts.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u138	Mr Fernández-Roca, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u139	I'm done. We cannot abandon our soldiers who through their permanent willingness to serve Spain and the Spaniards have dedicated the best years of their lives, offering it even, so that our homeland is a safer place. The defense of Spain is not temporary. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u140	Thank you, Mr Fernández-Roca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Law of Tropa y Marinería, adopted by the General Courts in 2006, has created some problems, gradually sharpened over time and successive crises, which make it necessary to take decisions around a state policy such as that relating to defence and, in the case we are discussing this afternoon, the best future for women and men who have professional access to the service of the Armed Forces and move to the reserve, which is bound by law and contractual commitment when they reach the age of 45. It should be recalled that during the year and a half a parliamentary subcommittee worked intensively within the Defence Commission, which produced in the XII Legislature an extensive report with forty measures that was adopted in September 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, given the need to create employment as a high priority for the Spaniards, and even more so in these dramatic pandemic times, which are destroying it, the options for meeting the needs of those who legally end their long-term commitment to the service of our army are increased. The law tries to respond to the lack that occurred after the abolition in 2001 of compulsory military service, the militia, but the reality is that Spain today has important staffing needs on an essential issue that affects us all Spaniards, such as defense. Of the three points in the motion defended by Mr Gutiérrez Vivas, I will support the proposal on the assessment of the degree of compliance with the report and the measures adopted by the Defence Committee exactly two years ago. I believe that this is the starting point for knowing before the end of the year the usefulness in the face of the shortcomings arising from the current Law on Troop and Marinery, most likely engaged in an urgent and profound reform, so profound that if we are unable to find a consensual legislative solution this problem will continue for many years. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. Mr García Adanero has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my congratulations also to the Legion. And, Mr Gutiérrez, who clearly cares nothing about this issue is the government, it is obvious, but neither this nor the previous ones, eh?, is it not a personal thing either. It is clear that there has been no one from the Government all afternoon because it is clear that none of them are interested in what is being discussed in the most important popular representation of Spain, they are not interested in anything. It is also clear that if anyone spoke of a group of more than 50,000 people serving the public administrations of Spain or any Administration they would be concerned about them. But what's going on? That these aren't normal people, they're military. And since they are military, for a part of this Chamber they cease to be important and no longer have significance that they are more than 50,000 people in the service of the public administrations of Spain. We must try to solve the problems of these people, like those of all the others, because they are citizens of Spain, who live in Spain, who work in Spain and who have approved tests to have that job and deserve the same respect as all the other people who work in the service of the whole of Spain or of each of its administrations. They are not second-class citizens, they are first-class citizens, and they were not only citizens when they went to the streets in March, but also now, and when all this happens they will have to remain citizens like the others, first-class. But this comes to such an extent that yesterday they were army trackers to the Foral Community of Navarre and, logically, the government partners said that they were gone - something else is that the government itself, the Socialist Party itself admits these things -. In addition, the Government of Navarre itself, with these complexes that it has, instead of saying 'the military come to track', says 'the Ministry of Defence people', not to say the word military. That's the problem. That's where the question lies. I think there will be no votes here, but if there are no votes to take this forward, if some parties do not add majority, it will be because others add it. Therefore, do not face the incoherences of some parties for not voting for them. This Government is supported here with a few votes and, therefore, do not face those inconsistencies that the spokesman for Podemos told us earlier. If they are incoherent and the Socialist Party ignores them, they assume their responsibility, but do not blame others when we do not have the votes to paralyze the horror of measures they are taking. Evidently, if we had vows, we would have stopped him. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. García. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u145	Thank you, Madam President. I speak very briefly, from the seat, only to say that, as we have seen, Citizens bring an initiative that essentially does not stop being a proposal that at the time was debated, treated and rejected in this house, in the subcommittee where the subject was discussed last year. We therefore believe that it is now a way of bringing in, through a GNP, what has not been achieved in that report. I think it's something much more serious. Furthermore, as some other groups have already requested, the report would have to be modified as a whole, because one of the issues addressed in that report, which was drawn up and raised as a recommendation, cannot be removed. We'd even have to change the law. It does not seem to us that a GNP is the most suitable way to bring something that in its moment has already been rejected. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuet Pujals has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u147	Thank you, President. I take advantage of this point in the motions following questioning to denounce that the Bureau of this House has censored a CUP motion calling for transparency on the monarchy. We would now be discussing it, Members of Parliament. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] On the subject, I have to say that the Republican Parliamentary Group is going to vote negatively on this motion for citizens, and we do not do so because we have mania to the proposing group, but because we are in the antipodes - and I stress the word antipodes - of the model of the Armed Forces, and I would say that of the model of state, which emerges from this motion of the Citizens Group. We were now being announced the pact that has been reached in this motion, the pact between Citizens and VOX to vote in favour. Today that we talk about the Legion I have to tell you that the goat throws on the mountain. Citizens and VOX are doomed to understand each other, if anyone still had any doubts. It is clear in this motion. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] He said we have a model in the antepods. Why? Several examples. First of all, why so many military personnel in the Armed Forces? The The Military Career Act of 2007 says that there may be between 130 000 and 140 000 troops in Spain, but let's remember where that premise comes from, where that figure is inherited. [[Rumors]] Well, let's be clear about the numbers of the Franco army. [[Protests]] The Franco army required a large, non-professional army...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u148	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u149	...and designed for territorial control, not for external threats. Therefore, we are still drinking from a tradition that is not democratic; and therefore we are discussing which army we should have on the premises of the past and not of a democratic state in Western Europe. We make it very clear, in the Spanish Constitution the army is assigned a task; that task is pre-constitutional: it must be the guarantor of the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. That is the constitutional role conferred on it by the Constitution. Are we gonna change that? Are we talking about that? Is that, gentlemen of Citizens, being downtown? No, I think that is drinking from the past and not addressing the democratic debate that exists in countries like Italy, Germany, France or, as I repeated, Western democracies where it is not VOX or parties like VOX who define what model of the Armed Forces we must have today. Therefore, that is an important issue. I want to tell you that in your day the free peoples, the future republics will dimension their security commitments, but we will not do so with received inheritances. In this army we do not recognize ourselves, Members of Parliament, and we want to say this in a very clear way. We want an immediate reduction of between 40 and 50 % of the workforce. We are talking about a maximum of 60 to 70 000 troops; we are talking about a budget reduction - we are talking about it in our programme - of 40% of military items, also of the specialized purchase of weapons, of submarines that do not sail, of tanks, of ships and planes that cost a kidney - that is worth a kidney - of our budget. So, that's where we should start. Let us also start with the 46,000 commanders of the Armed Forces and the Civil Guard. Do you know how many soldiers receive orders from a commando? Three soldiers; every three soldiers there is an officer in the Army or in the Civil Guard. Start by reducing that and start by reducing - and I finish, Madam President - those officers who signed the manifesto of apologia of Francoism; start with those, because I'm sure those would really deserve to go out on the street and not those over forty-five years old. I'm done. We have a radically different model and yes, the laws of the military race, of troops and navy must be changed, but from top to bottom, not only for the issue that you bring, but to make a debate that has not been made in forty years of democracy, because when the Constitution was signed...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u150	Mr. Nuet, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u151	...it was done with the sabres on top of the table, and so we are. Go ahead, but let's change it thoroughly, not with small arrangements. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u152	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u153	Dear President, dear companions and dear colleagues, staff of the house or accredited to it, today we address the problem of the stability of the troops and navy in conditions that in my opinion are not the best. Article 35 of the Spanish Constitution states that work is a right. For us work is not a concession of the market, as it is for some people. The tradition of social constitutionalism to which article 35 of the Spanish Constitution belongs, and which has its maximum expression in article 1 of the Italian Constitution, which says that Italy is a democratic republic founded on work, that is, that poetry of considering that work is the greatest in life and that it has dignity and protection by the State, and a commitment by the public authorities, is the philosophy that inspires our political group against liberal constitutionalism, a liberal constitutionalism that considers that work is a concession of the market, and that the State has to be a minimum State and that there is no commitment by the public authorities to stability. Surprisingly one of the people who think so, who oppose the idea of social constitutionalism and who sees the work from that perspective, brings something that is an initiative that presented, as one of the colleagues has commented, the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can in the previous legislature, a concern that from its origins has moved us in the United Nations We can support the most unprotected sectors of the Armed Forces, of the public workers of the Armed Forces, and for them we have worked. I want to say one thing to Mr. Gutierrez. In politics and in parliamentarianism everything is not worth it, I'm sorry. Iñigo Barandiaran has clearly told fellow Gabriel Rufián, not everything is worth it. It is not lawful to make a motion to lose it. It is lawful to lose a motion, it is legitimate to present an initiative even knowing that you are going to lose it and that you are in minority, but it is not lawful to make a motion seeking to lose it and making every possible move to lose it. What are those moves? First, to present a motion that is contrary to one's principles, to one's own political philosophy of extreme economic liberalism, which is also a motion that has been a demand that has been raised by another group and that one simply copies, pastes and resubmits it. But it's also not lawful because you know you don't have the majority enough to get it. You know that the two majority groups in this House are in favour of temporary commitment up to the age of 45, and you know that that has not been rectified, which you know, when you presented this motion, that you presented it to lose. When this is done, what is being done is to take by little intelligent recipients of an initiative. It is thought that with demagogic methods they can be used, you can generate expectations that will then be frustrated with the idea that, with that frustration, with that legitimate sense of unprotection of these groups, you can take advantage of it to fish in a revolted river. They won't find us there. I do not believe that you, as the representative of Esquerra said, are condemned to this. To my colleague Edmundo Bal, to whom I have great respect, I would like to ask that his group not fall into this kind of use, that they only get the easy applause of the extreme right, but that they will not in any way convince their recipients, those recipients with whom we have met this week, as we always meet with the AUME, with the ATME, with the UMT, with Asfaspro, with all the organizations representing the troops and navy and the Armed Forces, to defend as public officials what we claim regarding all the workers of this country, and much more than those who are in the Public Service. But, of course, in that kind of thing they won't find us, we will work as always with loyalty, weaving complicity, generating loyalty, seeking agreements, seeking consensus with the majority groups and trying to get real solutions for the real people of this country, and not selling smoke and cheating. Marked cards don't make the right policy. You will see, it gives me a deep sadness that Citizens in this case choose for this. I don't think the whole group participates in that kind of attitude. I invite you, along with the other members of the Defence Commission - in which we have very broad consensus and a way of working that I really believe to be enviable - to participate in this work, to meet with representatives of military associations and to work in favour of building consensus, building complicity and achieving real solutions for people who are really having a bad time. We, who have always supported those weaker sectors, we who have achieved - because it was a great fundamental objective - to raise the minimum wage of this country, will be able to improve the working conditions of the troops and navy, and also conditions of stability, but not on that path, not with traps and demagogy, not cheating and treating as minors people who are officials, people who work in the Civil Service, workers and workers of the Armed Forces, but with seriousness, formality, with serious work, weaving complicity, generating loyalty and acting in a consensual and serious way to achieve objectives and realities, and not to sell smoke and cheat. That's not the way, Mr. Gutierrez, you're wrong, and you're certainly not going to find us there. That's why we're going to abstain, even though we're radically opposed to...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u154	Mr. Uriarte, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u155	... the temporary commitment system. We are in favour of stability, we do not believe in the system of temporality. We believe that much further progress can be made, we believe that there is considerable immobility between the two major groups, PP and PSOE, which support temporary commitments. We believe that progress can be made, both in stability and in good remuneration, but not with traps, Mr Gutiérrez, there you will not find us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u156	Thank you, Mr. Uriarte. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, in view of the subject we are addressing, I would like to join the groups that congratulated our glorious Legion, two days after the centenary of the first enlistment, the first legionary, which is celebrated on 20 September: the enlistment of the first legionary. From then until today, a hundred years of value, the value of a hundred years, as the slogan of the celebration says. [[Applauds]] I believe that Mr Fernández-Roca, when he described the introduction of this motion as an exercise of political opportunism, made the most correct statement. I no longer value simply an exercise in political opportunism. seemingly simple solutions to complex problems cannot be adopted or proposed. With regard to Mr Nuet's intervention, which he misunderstands us, I trust, Mr Nuet, that on the basis of dealing with us and speaking he will be able to bring him a better understanding of our Armed Forces. Last week Mr. Gutiérrez began his intervention in the interpellation that gave rise to this motion by asking the Minister of Defence to think of the thousands of people who were going to be listening to him. I, today, wonder what the thousands of people who might be listening to today will look like and see what they're up to. It seemed that it was going to promote a revolution in the professional career system of the military of troops and navy, but instead, it presented a motion full of disqualifications to all that, to date, the Ministry of Defence has done and proposing things with little rigour. First, he proposed linking the situation of the troops and navy to the current pandemic situation and thus deferring, for a maximum of one year, the completion of temporary commitments. Similarly, it urged the Government to prepare a report and forward it to this House by reporting on the results of the measures proposed in the September 2018 subcommission's report. As is well known, reports can be requested, in accordance with Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure, which the People's Parliamentary Group did on 16 July, having qualified the request for reports. We look forward to receiving that report. Finally, the Government is urged to formulate a single military career law, without a very good description of what it is, but a career law that integrates one another. I have to tell the House that Law 39/2007, on Military Career, integrates one another; 9/2011, on Military Rights and Duties, integrates one another; the actual ordinances integrate one another; the disciplinary regime integrates one another; in short, the current regulations integrate one another. The motion eludes reference to the operational capacity of the Armed Forces. Without reference to the operational capacity of the Armed Forces, the solitary one is being set up, Mr Gutiérrez. Gentlemen of VOX, the interruption of the renovation by the lowest part of the escalphon in the Armed Forces has negative consequences for the operational capacity of the Armed Forces. The renovation of the lower steps is necessary. You put forward a one-third model in the first sector from 20 to 32, another third from 32 to 44 and another third from 44 to 56, saying that in the first third would be those of force, in the second of support to force and in the third the administrative ones in the headquarters. I will tell you that the force in our army affects 80% of the army's staff, not 30%. It needs 80%, so it is necessary to continually renew the staff. Defence policy is a State policy that requires consensus, as national defence does not admit sudden changes or improvisations or exploitation of the vulnerabilities of the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces are a resource to the service of the entire Spanish nation, and its heritage cannot be built from the ideological perspective of one or another character, and it is up to us all to seek and promote the best conditions under which its members can carry out their tasks. Political neutrality is an essential value in our Armed Forces to provide exactly the same service to all citizens and all sectors of the Spanish population, without ideological, territorial or other considerations. That is why it is contrary to the nature of the Armed Forces and their role in our society that some political formations of the House have made an effort to identify the Armed Forces biunivoously with their political ideal, however legitimate this is. The People's Parliamentary Group, as has been said, has recorded a non-legislative proposal for its debate in the Commission, which seeks to deepen, advance and consolidate the effective implementation of the measures provided for in the Act itself and in those measures which are deemed appropriate in the report of the Sub-Committee on Defence, which invested two years in this. Fourteen members of the Defence Commission devoted two years and thirty-two appearances to reaching conclusions that did not make it advisable to abandon the temporary model, because it is unworkable for our Armed Forces, Your Honor. The Spanish Armed Forces require renewal. Our non-legislative proposal raises a two-year postponement to give time to the maximum implementation of the proposed measures...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u158	Mr. Gutierrez, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u159	Thank you very much, President. I end with one more paragraph. Our non-legislative proposal seeks to improve the measures taken for two years. I encourage everyone to join in this effort which will soon be raised and not be led away by populist and electoral temptations in a matter as essential to our nation as is that of security and defence policy, promoting initiatives that are not rigorous and drawn from the context consistent with the actions carried out to this day. Simple solutions to complex problems, populism, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u161	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin my speech today by adding to the congratulations on the centenary of the Legion, a unit that, like so many others, counts among its ranks with professional military personnel who serve Spain and its citizens; professional military personnel who voluntarily acquired with the Armed Forces a commitment that clearly stated that at the age of forty-five years their disengagement would occur through the resolution of the commitment that they themselves acquired. Therefore, here Mr Gutiérrez's first fallacy: they are not expelled, they are not thrown out, they are not fired, only the commitment that they voluntarily entered into is implemented. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that these professionals, when the resolution of their commitment takes place, receive an allocation of more than EUR 600 per month in the case of the troops and EUR 1200 per month in the case of the officers, and this is the case until the retirement age, compatible with the two years of unemployment and the perception of any other private emoluments. For some of your honourable Members who are dismembered, I would like to remind you that it was the Socialist Parliamentary Group that first put this issue on Parliament's table; it was the Socialist Parliamentary Group that proposed a subcommittee to study the matter with experts and specialists in this field, with the aim always of finding the best solutions for Spain, for the Armed Forces and for our professionals. The subcommission passed experts and military from all ranks, both national and foreign, civilians. All those experts, except one, Mr Gutiérrez - all those experts except one - to the question of whether temporary professionals had to be permanent answered in a sharp way no. They justified this in one of the following reasons: the first, their permanence would mean an aging of the Armed Forces in its most operational layer, and here the populist demagogy of the far right is more than palpable. When some of his lordships wore high-ranking uniforms and held positions of responsibility in the Armed Forces vehemently they supported and signed reports claiming that the aging of the troops, and thus of the Armed Forces, posed a risk to their operationality, which could cause their paralysis; the lack of operationality of the Armed Forces affects national security. And here we now have those responsible without uniform who decide with their vote to sacrifice the security of Spain, the security of the Spaniards, yes, they sacrifice it for love of Spain than of the Spaniards, a very set love. Another reason for the no in this subcommission was that the permanence of these professionals in armies with a reduction in numbers due to high technology and digitisation would mean that there would be no offer of public employment for at least ten or fifteen years, resulting in the disconnection of the Armed Forces with their society, and vice versa, directly affecting the conscience and security of Spain and, therefore, back to national security. Our children would not be able to access the Armed Forces in ten or fifteen years. This led us to the conclusion that this staff could not be all of a permanent nature, but it was necessary to look for a way out of work in the civil sphere. Mr Gutiérrez, you did not support the subcommittee's opinion. I'm going to give you data on what you didn't support so that you will once and for all stop doing populism with the Armed Forces and learn math. The maximum number of reserve staff of special availability foreseen by the end of 2021 is 4530, but this is not the case, because, as we can see, only 9 % of these professionals each year achieves the status of reserve staff of special availability. But we're gonna keep the 4530s. Thanks to the subcommission that you did not support, the following places have been reserved for these personnel and the professional soldiers of troops and sailors in their last ten years: between Renfe, Adif and the House of Currency and Stamp, 165 - go adding, go adding -; for the State Security Forces and Corpses, 2895 places; for local police, 189, Ministry of Defence labor personnel, 370 places last year and 460 this year; for Ministry of Defence official personnel, 120 places last year and 108 this year. There has been a 100 % increase in permanent access positions, 100 %, from 300, to 400 and to 700 by 2020. For the rank of officers and non-commissioned officers 1854. You're holding it together? You can use your fingers. In addition, 112 professional troops of troops and navy and RED have been hired under the agreement with the Government of Aragon. I could take a note now! Just like the Junta de Andalucia, where you govern and where you do not take into account the experience of the professional soldiers of troops and navy to access the offer of public employment. Pick up the phone, make a call, help hire our soldiers. [[Applauds]] Wait, Mr. Gutierrez, there's more. There are 500 job offers in companies with agreements with the Ministry of Defence and I can keep telling you. In short, more than 8,200 places for 4500 arriving next year, counting the peaks, which are not 4000, you said the other day, were 2000. Seven online courses that you despised and undervalued a week ago, where more than 8000 students have been trained, 202 students have obtained the middle degree degree in our Spanish universities, 14 million euros of European funds for training in courses in which only a few REDs have unfortunately presented themselves, and you say they are abandoned. Look, Mr Gutiérrez, abandoned are the citizens of Madrid in the ghettos that you have created together with your allies who call these multicultural terns. Those people are abandoned. The health workers and professionals in Madrid would already like the opportunities and allocation that the Socialist Party government, this progressive government, is giving to its armed forces professionals! We don't abandon them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u162	Mrs. Cantera, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u163	We don't abandon them. Look, Mr. Gutiérrez, do you want to help the members of the Armed Forces? Tell the Government of Madrid to also grant scholarships to the children of the armed forces professionals and not to restrict them only to the State Security Forces and Corpses and not to despise the military, as is happening. Pick up the phone, call, call those governments that you support to hire these military men instead of leaving them out.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u164	Mrs. Cantera, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u165	I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u166	No, it just has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u167	I'm finishing up. Stop using the Armed Forces, they are the Armed Forces of all Spaniards, they are not of the Socialist Party, they are not of the People's Party, they are not of Podemos, they are not of you and they are not much less of the heirs of Francoism who first killed the military in the coups d'état. The Armed Forces are Spanish, respect them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Cantera. Mr Gutiérrez, have I understood from your speech that you accept the amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u169	Thank you, Madam President. We've come to a transaction that the lawyers have. We have accepted part of the amendment and a compromise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u170	Perfect. Thank you so much. We vote in three minutes. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you identified with your name on the screen. I also remind you that those Members who have already voted through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. We are voting, first, on the proposal for a law of the Plural Parliamentary Group amending Law 3/2004 of 29 December, laying down measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions, with a view to regulating a regime of infringements and sanctions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 121 plus 224 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 121 plus 223 telematics votes, 344; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u173	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/1985, OF 1 JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, FOR THE REFERENCE OF JUDICIAL INDEPENDENCE. [[File number 122/000034]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u174	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group Citizens, Organic Amendment of the Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, of the Judiciary, for the strengthening of judicial independence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 121 plus 224 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 50 plus 102 telematics votes, 152; against, 70 plus 104 telematics votes, 174; abstentions, 1 plus 18 telematics votes, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-09-22-CD200922.u175	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. I should like to inform you that the other items on the agenda will be voted on, both telematically and in person, tomorrow Wednesday. The plenary session shall be suspended, once the agenda has been adopted, for approximately one hour, during which time Members who so request may cast their votes by means of the telematics procedure. The vote will take place immediately following the adjournment of the sitting. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was nine and five minutes of the night.
