ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Take your seats. The meeting was called to order. Today we begin what is expected to be the last plenary session under the state of alarm begun three months ago. Its next completion does not mean, however, that the pandemic is over. We must still live with it and the health recommendations to contain it. The implementation of these recommendations is today a requirement of individual responsibility for every citizen and, of course, for every member of this House; it is also the best expression of our appreciation to those who continue to work for the health and safety of all of us. In this last plenary in a state of alarm we keep, once again, a minute of silence in memory of the people who died in this crisis and again express our regret and condolences to their relatives and relatives. The void they leave and their memory will continue with us even if we leave behind the exceptionality of these weeks. [[The ladies and gentlemen present in the Chamber, stood up, kept a minute of silence.]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u2	We begin with the debate on the non-law proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the gender perspective in prison policy. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. If the deprivation of liberty and the stay in a prison is one of the greatest punishments for any person, what to say when such a sentence is aggravated by the violation of rights and discrimination by being a woman. That is the reality of Spanish prisons; prisons that, in the image and likeness of the prison system, are thought by and for men. In Spain prisons have always been a matter of men. In Spanish prisons there is inequality, there is no gender perspective and there is no equality of opportunity in the different areas necessary to achieve the ultimate purpose of reintegration and resocialization. It cannot be that because of being a woman in prison the consequences of inequality are suffered and suffered, and this is not an occurrence of the PNV, we have enough experiences, real testimonies, reports of institutions and entities and journalistic investigations to ascertain and publicly denounce this situation. Therefore, my parliamentary group is submitting this non-legislative proposal for debate in plenary and, if it is adopted, requests the Government to draw up a report within six months on the situation of the female prisoner population in State prisons and to put in place appropriate measures to introduce a gender perspective into prison policy, because, unfortunately, that perspective does not currently exist. He said that we have reports, and that there have been very interesting reports, both those prepared by the Professor of Criminal Law of the University of Alicante, Carmen Juanatey, as well as the report of the Ombudsman or a report of a union of Workers' Commissions on Spanish prisons; well-developed, well-documented and well-developed reports. In a brief review of the prison situation in the Spanish State, we can say that there are fifty thousand men in prison; women in prison, only four thousand. For every woman deprived of her liberty there are twelve men in prison. Of the eighty centres under the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions, only four are exclusively women. There are seventy-five modules of women who have about forty places each, but who can accommodate up to sixty or seventy people in times of increase in the prison population. Thus, compliance with article 16 of the LOGP, of the Organic Law, which calls for the separation of modules from within, is not guaranteed. Article 16 of this Act states: "In whatever centre where the entry takes place, a complete separation shall be carried out immediately, taking into account sex, emotivity, age, background, physical and mental status and, in respect of convicted persons, the requirements of treatment. Consequently, men and women should be separated except in the exceptional circumstances that are determined by regulation. What's going on? That these exceptional assumptions end up being almost the norm. As a result of this majority coexistence between men and women in the same prison, there is a painful circumstance that inmates show a sense of insecurity in common areas, such as sports sports, for example, because the presence of men is very large, which leads them to inhibit their use. Inmates are prevented from attending workshops where they coincide with prisoners for sexual offences or gender-based violence for reasons of security and protection, but this circumstance causes the paradox that the status of potential victim ends up playing against them: double victimization. These women cannot serve their sentences in the therapeutic units or in the respect modules or simply participate in any specific program. Without differentiated physical space it is impossible to implement any new and progressive model in the execution of sentences, as well as to give an adequate response to female diversity. This is the real discrimination that exists, because we do not have the criterion that it is for their safety; that can never be the reason that ends up discriminating against women, because, moreover, on the day-to-day of prison coexistence, those quotas of power, of submission and, in essence, of Machist criteria end up being norm. But it is not only in the daily experience, but also in the normative conception it is shown that the Spanish prison system is made from a purely male perspective and therefore discriminates against the female population. The sex variable is not included in the computer data collection. It has been found that inclusive language is not used in registration forms; that psychological assessments of initial assessment and review, including those of the suicide prevention programme, do not have a protocol that reflects variables or gender adaptations; and that staff and health personnel do not receive gender training. We therefore have case studies of this discrimination in terms of training, for example in terms of women's access to training workshops, or in which women prisoners do not have access to a comprehensive and balanced programme of activities which takes account of their specific needs, or in terms of working in prisons: only 8% of the inmates had a contract of employment. All the inmates interviewed in a report I mentioned previously denied having an individualized treatment program. Women continue to be employed within prisons in tasks defined as gender-specific, laundry, cleaning, etc. When we learned that in a prison, specifically in Albolote, women were forced to clean the toilets while men were not, my group asked the Government a question. The Government's response, of course, was nothing convincing; indeed, we believe that it deepened such discrimination for the sake of security. All these data, which are truly verifiable, show that the Spanish prison system in this area, and not only in this area, requires a profound transformation. Firstly, ideological, mentality, which must then be adapted to the rules and, consequently, to attitudes. We cannot have prisons where stalkers or criminals play basketball on the court and women, because they are women, regardless of the crime they have committed, have to stay without sports because the male prisoner causes them insecurity. It's not a receipt, it's not ethically acceptable. We do not need the Government to tell us the hardships of the lack of resources, etc. More than 40 years of democracy are more than enough for prison policy to advance with facts towards equality. A society is not only measured by its level of income, as you know, by its industrial capacity; nor is it measured by the democratic health of its institutions, of its judicial system, of its educational system, of its health system, but also. Their prisons and their prison system, in addition to scrupulously ensuring human rights, must be a social example. A quote attributed to Albert Camus says that a society is judged by the state of its prisons. He's right. Discrimination of any kind - sexual, racial, religious or ideological - is prohibited, and I think we are moving towards its eradication - although I often have serious doubts - but gender has not yet been overcome. We cannot allow such attitudes to exist, which unfortunately do not have visibility, because they disturb, create uneasiness...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u4	Excuse me, Mr. Agirretxea, I'd have to finish, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u5	Nobody likes to talk about jails. If the problems of the prison population are invisible, what about the problems of the female prison population. We have received a number of amendments from parliamentary groups and we appreciate the work they have done; we thank those who contribute and participate in the spirit of this initiative. There are others who re-emphasize what matters to them, which is not precisely the situation of inequality of women prisoners. I hope that among those who contribute we will come to an agreement. My group therefore calls for the adoption of this non-legislative proposal and calls on the Government to comply with its obligation to eradicate discriminatory attitudes in Spanish prisons, so that their attitude may serve as an example. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. In defence of the amendments put forward by the various groups, Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus will speak by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u7	Thank you, President. Eskerrik asko. Prisons is a world that is far from the vast majority, even more so if we talk about women in prisons, an invisible, non-existent world. We are talking about women in a world of men, in a world designed for men, who serve sentences within a enclosure designed for men. There are some collectives, such as lawyers, and aid circles and, fundamentally, human rights associations and agencies that have worked and worked in this field in recent years. Associations such as Salhaketa Nafarroa or the Association for Human Rights of Andalusia have well identified deficiencies, failures that should be addressed and the needs that need to be addressed quickly. From the joint report of these two associations I have drawn common conclusions, which are almost unanimously repeated among all those dealing with these issues and which would be summed up in one sentence: we have a particularly harsh penal system with women and, moreover, discriminatory, and discriminatory is also unfair. I know that talking about the insurmountable difficulties they face when it comes to receiving medical care, about the problems they face in order to ensure that such care is respectful of dignity and privacy gives no idea of the seriousness of the situation that these women endure; a gravity that is redoubled because, in this case, it is the Administration who discriminates, the Administration that should defend and guarantee their rights. There are many issues to be outlined, but there is something that clearly demonstrates the profound discrimination of women against men in prisons; it is the precariousness of space and, consequently, worse living conditions and the habitability of women in prison. Of the 69 prisons in the State, only three are for women, only three: Madrid I, Centro Penitenciario de Ávila and Alcalá de Guadaira. The rest of the prisons have modules for women, i.e. modules that are created within male prisons as annexes to the central building. In other words, they enter, in the vast majority of cases, into modules qualified in male prisons, managed by and for men and with resources that are generally inferior to those intended for them - neither their own courtyards nor gyms nor libraries - and there are ten provinces that do not even have one of these modules for women. On the other hand, prison legislation allows mothers to keep their children with them until they reach the age of three. To enable this right, there are only three mother modules. There are three other non-ordinary units or regimes, but all of them, even these in their entirety, are located from Madrid to the south. The empowerment of women's modules in all prisons is one of the most urgent measures demanded by the associations concerned. Although there are many other aspects, it is worth stopping at one that is key to the future of these people who, at the time they are released, have to face the street, to avoid social exclusion. Here too, inequality is evident. The programs of insertion in prisons are aimed at men, without specific plans for them, and when they are thought of, they are offered workshops of sewing, cleaning, laundry; that is, cut and clothing for them and mechanics for them: concentrated gender stereotypes and women aimed at less formative exits and with less expectations. There is a great deal of need for gender policies, empowerment tools to enable them to access their resources and to serve as a springboard for their reintegration into society. For all that I have said and for all that I have left unsaid, which is a lot, we support this non-law proposal to go ahead and ask for speed to be printed at the next steps. And from the general to the local, I do not want to fail to mention a factor that affects with particular cruelty some women of Euskal Herria. I am referring to the Basque political prisoners, on whom, in addition to all the above, the political measure of extreme remoteness falls. There are currently 27 women serving sentences at points far away from their family environment from Euskal Herria. I encourage you to take a mental tour of each of the places I'm going to point out, because that is the prison itinerary that your relatives, also your parents and mothers, of old in some cases, and your children and little daughters, draw week after week from their homes in Salamanca, Valencia, Jaén, Asturias, Huelva, Granada, Logroño, Alicante, Madrid, La Coruña, Ávila, Córdoba, Almería, Pontevedra, Castellón and Algeciras; trips back and forth with added punishment: an unjust sentence imposed as a terrible burden on families. I'm back to the non-law proposal we're dealing with. I trust that this Congress will support it, because this problem needs urgent solutions and because it must be done for respect for human rights, for justice and also for institutional responsibility. And if none of these reasons convince the Members of this House...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u8	Mrs. Aizpurua, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u9	...that it is, at least, for humanity, because that too serves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u11	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed initiative clearly addresses the gender perspective in prison policy and from Citizens we will always be promoting equality between men and women, and in this case in an area where - we know - much remains to be done. That is why we are also making some improvements through amendments, in order to have a more global view of the prison situation not only of women prisoners but also of prison officials, because they are two blocks in which we can work and reflect by looking at our prison system. Clearly, the high percentage of male inmates establishes a prison system that generates gender inequality, and the data show this. When we talk about the situation of women prisoners we have to bear in mind that there are only three specific prisons for women, that women prisoners are mostly imprisoned in modules established for men, that they are imprisoned together without considering the criminal commission or its criminal act, when really for men there is a diversification. The Ombudsman himself - as mentioned above - established in a report what is the invisibility of women prisoners: that the forms speak only of inmates, that the registers do not have gender-differentiated information, that they also have difficulty in accessing common spaces and also in accessing good occupational training workshops and employment contracts. And in the health field we are also set out how there are difficulties and gender inequality - enough to say that in most of our prisons there are no specialized gynecological services - so we clearly need to work to correct these inequality gaps to which women prisoners are subjected. But also, why not take a broad look at the situation of working women, prison officials who also face a gap of inequality every day. Starting with the Equality of Men and Women Act of 2007, women civil servants work indiscriminately in male and female modules. We have to bear in mind that there is a deficit of 3500 civil servants in Spain and this implies that there are certain tasks and some activities that women civil servants have to carry out, alone - such as the closure of cells - and that in doing so in an individualised way they are subject to risk situations. We have a female official for an average of 100 male inmates and what I find totally regrettable are some of the creepy complaints from a gender perspective that I have had to read. I find it totally outrageous that there are women civil servants who are being subjected to sexual assaults in the development of their work: touching, corraling, masturbation, exhibitionism, lascivious looks, lascivious comments in group. This is what they are subjected to in their day-to-day lives and on many occasions they do not complain because they do not trust the system's own response. Just yesterday in an article published in The Albacete Tribune, some examples of this kind were given. Therefore, I do believe that such a measure, such a GNP, is very necessary so that we can make progress on the path towards gender equality for women prisoners and women prison officials. To protect these women from Citizens we have been asking for time to be recognized as agents of authority. Since 2017 we have been presenting initiatives in this line. Throughout the six extensions of the state of alarm, we have called for their recognition as agents of authority. Why? Because this will correct and better protect our bodies and security forces, in this case, prison officials. There have been more than 2,200 cases of aggression in the last six years, and more than one could have been avoided, because they do not have legal recognition when we are talking about their authority, and it is needed. We believe that this GNP needs to be improved and we have tabled two amendments. The first, in particular, proposes that there should be a report within six months so that we can study it in the relevant Equality Commission, on the situation of female workers and women prisoners, and the second, proposes that there should be a good protocol. We want to defend equality without nuances, and that's where we're going to be. That is why we do not see that it is the Basque Nationalist Party that presents this initiative, because we do not talk about territorial equality, which we know they do not like at all. But let me ask you two questions and give you a piece of advice in the gender field: let me show you the latest advertising spots that you make to celebrate the Aberri Eguna, because the one that appears in the image of the advertising spot a woman ironing and her husband sitting seems to me to have to make us see it, when what we want is to move forward in the field of gender equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u12	Mrs. Giménez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u13	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u15	On the one hand, I would like to give you this advice, and on the other hand, I would like to say that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative because we are going to look at the general interest. We believe that such an initiative can greatly improve the lives of women prisoners, prison officials and open up a gap in work for equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor in the first place. [[Mrs Olona Choclán asks for the floor]] Yes, Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u17	Pursuant to Rule 72, in connection with Rule 103.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, we request that the spokesman of the Parliamentary Group EH Bildu be urged to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the expression political prisoners, and if not, to proceed ex officio, for alluding to the prison population serving sentences for membership of or related to a terrorist organization, ETA. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. Mrs. Sabanes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u19	Thank you, President. As I said, we are talking about women prisoners and women deprived of their liberty. From More Country-Equo we are totally in favour of this non-law proposition. It does not seem to us any occurrence; on the contrary, it seems extremely necessary to us. Firstly, because we talk little about certain places, in this case, of prisons, and secondly, because it is the duty of the State to protect and protect, since they also depend exclusively on it. In the document on the prevention of torture and ill-treatment of women deprived of their liberty of the Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment of the United Nations - we already know that there are those who do not trust the international agencies very much, we do - in its ninth paragraph points out that the human rights of women, in the context of deprivation of liberty, have at best been subsumed to those recognized as a supposedly neutral subject, but that in practice they have had the only model of man or have simply been ignored and invisible. Spain is no exception and I will give some data. We talk about gender inequality and discrimination. Women account for 7.53 per cent of inmate repopulation; of the total, 70 per cent of these women have been ill-treated at some point in their lives and 80 per cent of these women are mothers. In addition, access to training workshops is clearly discriminatory and prevents reintegration. We will therefore vote in favour, if we add an amendment that includes the cross-cutting perspective, that is, incorporating different realities: ethnicity, classes, place of birth, etc., and that also includes gender-based violence as a reality present outside and inside prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-An employee of the cleaning service proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u21	Thank you, President. Apart from the reports quoted by the PNV colleague, I recommend that they also recover the interview they gave to the political prisoner, Constellera Dolors Bassa, at the beginning of the month of April on TV3: Women do not have the same conditions as men do because they are simply women, and the conditions in which women have to serve their sentences in prisons are an undeniable example of this. Prisons in Spain are designed only for men. Women serving sentences and political prisoners in Spain must adapt to centres designed only for men. In fact, recidivism in many cases is a consequence of the limitations they have when they are incarcerated. Because of the simple fact that we are women we do not have the same rights, and I give a couple more examples of what the partner has set: men are entitled to more hours of swimming due to the simple fact that they are men and the simple fact that they are more numerically, and women do not have access to all the training due to the simple fact that they are women and the simple fact that they are less numerically. The solution is clear: women's centres are needed. It is therefore necessary to innovate and invest. I'm going to focus on the investment. On 8 March, Socialist MEP Eva Granados urged the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia to cut its bonds and make more money. Solving the issue of bonds is easy, it depends exclusively on you: freedom political prisoners and exiles. The same Granados later specified, and with chaff, that she referred to less purple bonds and more money for equality policies. Well, this is also in your hands. They do not have the character of coming to mourn the Generalitat of Catalonia when it is their Government that refuses to pay, for example, EUR 443 million of VAT that corresponds to the inhabitants of Catalonia, or the fiscal expoliation that we suffer every year of EUR 16 billion from the inhabitants of Catalonia, or when its Constitutional Court overthrows the equality laws that are passed in the Parliament of Catalonia; indeed, a politicized Constitutional Court that now sees itself wanting to study the possibility of turning twenty-nine Members of this House to exercise our right to freedom of expression. You have been in government for two years and have not been able to go beyond gestures and well-meaning speeches. Meanwhile, many of us have to come here to defend our position in non-legislative propositions like this or to defend our electoral programs with the encouragement of the political police here, fearing that by defending our ideology or being independent tomorrow a new report of the Benemerita manufactured will appear. [[pointing to the back of the head]] I'm done. Imagine how much you could do with this money that I have quoted if you were to invest in equality policies and not in defending judges who imprison political dissent or patriotic police or corrupt monarchies. But what to expect from those who give credibility to false reports of the Civil Guard who say that some Catalans are corrupt because they have wicks of the Revetlla Sant Joan at home and do not give credibility to an official report of the CIA that says that Mr. X of the LAG is former President Felipe González! Meanwhile, you will continue to see yellow and purple bonds. Thank you very much. Freed political prisoners and exiled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Also by invoking Rule 72, in connection with Rule 103.1, I would ask you to delete the words about political police and political prisoners from the previous statement. I don't know if he got it right before, but our partner, Macarena Olona, requested the same in the previous intervention. I would therefore ask you to invite them to voluntarily withdraw these statements from the Journal of Sessions and, if not, to take letters in the matter yourself.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. I ask Mrs Aizpurua whether she wishes to withdraw the above-mentioned expression from the Journal of Sessions.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u25	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u26	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nogueras?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u27	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u28	Thank you very much. Mrs Toscano de Balbín has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Woe, gentlemen of the PNV, if the sexist Sabino Arana raised his head and saw them, he would die again of the impact! This GNP does not make much sense, on the one hand, because there is already a prison equality programme that implements these measures of a gender perspective in prisons, but, on the other hand, it does not make sense because there are women who are not usually mentioned, who are prison officials. These women suffer aggression and violence in the performance of their work, and here feminists are silent and do not defend them or provide them with protection. [[Applauds]] Less flirting feminism and more working for people's real problems. From here I would like to send a hug to the prison officials and wish them, as soon as possible, to have the status of agents of authority. The only reason for this initiative is this pathetic competition in the Chamber to see who is the most progressive and the most feminist of all the parties, and to you, gentlemen of the PNV, it is now better to look more forward to being able to agree with Bildu and the PSOE in the upcoming Basque elections. What a pity that the PNV has moved from ETA's'recognition' to'recognition' of feminism! Focusing on the situation of women in prisons, the total prison population of women, which is now 7.53%, has access to paid work, education and vocational training programmes, sports, cultural activities and primary health care. They also have the same characteristics or regime as men. So, I don't know what the problem is. The problem here really is that feminism needs to continue to place its grateful stomachs, and at the cost of the Spanish's taxes to keep those chiringuitos. What a coincidence that the solutions provided in the equality programmes in the prison field are the creation of study and follow-up commissions, or different organizations and associations to indoctrinate the prison population! In the end, they are an endless body of pseudo-experts, who are not going to solve at all - let us be serious - the conditions of women either in or outside the prison. The problem is that you women care about a curse, because if you do, they would worry more about prison officials. Women care only to achieve their political ends and, frankly, we start to be very tired of being victimized and collectively. Many women are tired of the left inventing a group of people who have no relationship with each other, only an irrelevant characteristic that does not define us - as in this case it is belonging to the female sex - and from there the left plants its flag, gags us and it is those who have the moral authority to speak on our behalf. I, as a woman, do not want them to speak in my name, I do not want them to victimize me or use me; I do not want their paternalism, their condescension or their privileges because their feminism denigrates us, oppresses us and binds us. Listen to him at once: women are not victims. And now, of course, you will go with the lie that VOX is opposed to improving the conditions of women prisoners. You know that you have to lie because if our speech is heard clearly and clearly we will convince the Spaniards, because you know deep down that common sense convinces, that good convinces and that truth convinces. VOX wants equality of all Spaniards before the law, wants men and women to have the same rights. Because we want men and women to have the same rights, and because we don't buy their gender delusions, we're not fascists or sexists, what we are is free. For this freedom we tell you here today, from this rostrum, that facing your lies and your injustices of the left and of VOX feminism will always remain the resistance that will fight for democracy and for the real equality of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs García-Pelayo Jurado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me from the beginning of my speech to make clear the position of the People's Parliamentary Group, of the People's Party. The People's Party cannot allow this plenary of Congress to talk about the rights that must be recognized in the area of prison institutions and that this plenary should remain silent in relation to the situation in which prison officials live, or who are ill-living. I would therefore like to say at this point that the Group of the European People's Party has tabled two blocks of amendments: the first relates to the rights of women prisoners in whom we believe that progress needs to be made, and the second important block of amendments that we have also tabled, proposes that the rights of workers whom we believe to be, and who have been, despised by the Socialist Government should be recognized. [[Applauds]] A group that works every day, precisely to guarantee the rights of women prisoners; a group of officials who leave their skin every day so that women prisoners live safer, that women prisoners are trained, that women prisoners are cared for, that women prisoners are taken care of, and, ultimately, that women prisoners can be reinstated, once they have completed their sentence, in the life we all want to live. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled a block of amendments calling for the Socialist Government to increase the available staffing of prison officials by means of an extraordinary and urgent offer to cover the thousands of existing vacancies and to ensure differential treatment between imprisoned men and women. We understand that in order to advance the equality of imprisoned women, prison officials must also be recognized as agents of authority, because the security in which prison officials work is also a guarantee of security for our prisoners and prisoners. We understand that we will not make progress on equal terms in prison institutions, without a plan to continuously improve the training of prison workers in policies of equality, but on serious continuous improvement plans and, of course, we will not make progress without improving the conditions of prison officials, including the adoption of a three-year plan for equal pay for this group. Without the rights of prison officials there will also be no right for women prisoners in our prisons. On the other hand, I also think it is important to highlight to you - a lot has been said and talked about here this afternoon - the situation of women prisoners in our prisons. We therefore believe that it is also essential that sufficient modules for women be enabled in our prison system; that intervention programmes with women in the educational sphere, in relation to gender violence or in relation to additions, should be improved by linking some of them to them, and we also believe that it is important to work with mothers in prison. It is also essential - and this is something that has not been discussed here - to promote health in our prisons. Health is also a right, ensuring the health of women prisoners is also an obligation and, in this case, we believe that it is essential, without waiting for any report, that the vacancies of doctors and nurses in Spanish prisons be covered. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been talk about the rights of women prisoners, some political group has also talked about the rights of prison officials, but everyone has kept silent about the rights also of victims of terrorism, who also - and never forget it - have their rights recognized; the right to know the truth of what has happened, the right to obtain reparation for the damage done in terms of justice, and the victims of terrorism also have the right to social treatment that recognizes and values their example, their dignity. This plenary session of the Congress cannot pass non-legislative proposals in which rights to the letter are recognized, for some, and for others not, but rights for all, for women prisoners - of course - for prison officials, but also, and fundamentally, for the victims. [[Applauds]] That is why I have to send a final message, in this case to the Socialist Government and Mr Marlaska. We regret as a judge that, on some other occasion, he has forgotten that the victims have a right and that on the night of the state of alarm he has betrayed, on some occasion, those who defend truth, justice and dignity as victims. I ask you to put yourselves on the right side and, I insist, rights for women prisoners - of course it is, it is a question of humanity and dignity - but, of course, it is also...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u32	Mrs. García-Pelayo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u33	I'm done. ...rights for prison officials. This group will always defend them, this group will always remember that they are leaving their skin there every day - and in many cases playing life - precisely to make prisoners and prisoners have rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u34	Thank you, Mrs. García-Pelayo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, ma'am. Guille. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Basque Parliamentary Group points out by introducing this non-law proposal for the Government to prepare a report on the gender perspective in prison policy, around 7.5% of the total number of inmates in Spain are women. Frankly, it represents a very small percentage compared to the male prison population, but, precisely for this reason, it brings a very overlapping and specific problem that is summed up in a single word with capitals that has been repeated this afternoon in the debate: discrimination. To correct this, the updated report is needed, in order to take action to address the major and serious problems faced by women in Spanish prisons. I demand agility to make that report. A decade ago it was recognized from Prison Institutions that women live in prison differently and therefore need different measures and solutions. Today in Spain the process of - let me say the word - 'prisionization' of a woman is brutal, because except for the four establishments reserved only for them in Brieva, Alcalá de Guadaira, Madrid I and Wad-Ras, in the remaining ones do not have internal classification, so, for example, a young woman who enters for the first time in a prison to a very hard prison coexistence in a subcultural environment with a high risk of being subjected by recidivist and dangerous preys, who use extreme and violent codes. [[Avila]] [[Seville]] [[Alcalá Meco]] [[Barcelona]] It is therefore essential to implement a prison policy that will put an end to this situation of helplessness and also facilitate women's access to a prison routine that will provide them with security, incentives and improvements in their training and education, and with this in mind, try to increase their chances of returning to everyday life, achieving full social reintegration, as established in our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the women who are serving their sentences today in Asturias, seventy in Module 10 and eight in the model therapeutic and educational unit, which gradually recovers the best levels of its functioning after several years of unacceptable imprisonment by an old prison management, incomprehensiblely endorsed by the previous government. In 2012, along with other deputies and senators, I had the opportunity to chat with the inmates and interns who were attached to the drug-free space of the Villabona UTE, listen to their comments and know their hopes; many are already free and reinserted, not a few were women. By supporting this proposal and by remembering the officials, educators and collaborating entities of the UTE, and the thousands of Asturians who supported its work, I renew my commitment to improve the conditions of prisons in pursuit of the constitutional mandate of resocialization with another call for attention to the Government on the recovery of so-called social inclusion centres, which play an intermediate role between prison life and the return to daily social life. The previous crisis led to the construction of some of these centers, which are very useful; it would be possible to resume those parked projects. In any case, I would ask the honourable Member, Mr Agirretxea, to make an effort to draft a compromise containing some of the proposals that have been put forward in this rostrum and in the amendments, mainly in defence of prison officials, in the improvement of staffing and in the progress towards equal pay. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u37	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I shall start with the end and announce that we will vote in favour of this GNP, unless they do something strange with the amendments, because it seems to us that it is obvious that it is a matter of basic social justice. Anyway, I would like to make a few thoughts on the subject, basically four. First, the only punishment that the Spanish Constitution admits is that which will be - says article 25.2 - oriented towards re-education and reintegration. On the other hand, we see continuously a discourse based on punitive populism: more crimes, more imprisonment, longer and, if it could be, harder, based on punishment as punishment and revenge, aligned with the principles of retributive justice, which are, by the way, very old, like some opinions heard in this House. Well, sentences and alternatives to imprisonment must be used much more frequently and in much more depth. Especially in women, the resocializing function that must be exercised is much more effective if it does not break even further its family network and does not extend its punishment to its entire circle and environment, because they are usually the caregivers of sons and daughters, they are the caregivers of older people, they are the sustenance of their family, as everywhere. Therefore, this prison situation punishes them and, in addition, their entire environment, further victimizing this situation. Secondly, not only must the gender perspective be applied in the area of prison, that is, in the enforcement of sentences, but also before, in the reading and amendment of the Spanish Penal Code, which has been amended thirty-two times since 1995. It should review the whole structure, as it is based on a macho view of social relations and, worst of all, is being applied by an impermeable judiciary to the social changes that are taking place and those that will take place. It is not enough to change certain crimes through partial organic laws, but to revise the criminal policy completely to incorporate the feminist view into the legal-penal policy. Thirdly, you often wonder about our conviction and concern in creating our own republic and you have never understood that we are like this because we believe that the freedom and quality of life of our citizens would be much deeper. For this GNP is perfect for me because we will explain to you how we want to govern our republic. In November 2018, the Department of Justice, with Consteller Ester Capella at the front, published this book: Gender and Prison, a programme of gender perspective and equity in the prison sector. [[shows a book]] I'll pass it to you if you want to take notes. Precisely all these questions are addressed and made in common, because it is not only the book, but how this book has been made. Part of the experiences and experiences of women officials, civil servants and women prisoners who report them and who, from this place, explain what the prison should be like to have the resocializing function it should have. They give the prisoners a voice, put the experiences in the center, put the realities so that all the experience associated with the prison is not simply a revenge of society, but a resource to straighten out truncated lives, which is what it is about. On too many occasions it seems that certain political forces want to use the Penal Code to lock up the more people in prison, the better and the longer, the better; they want to use it as garbage to leave the spoils - they believe - of our society. Our look is exactly the opposite, the passage through the prison must always be the possibility of repairing the damage, the possibility of learning to start again and, although the percentage of prisoners is only 7.6%, the feminist look, also in this area, will favor all those who are in prison. Fourth, and I'm done. I cannot forget in this speech - please take note of the articles - two great feminist women who are in prison at this time without having committed any crime. Yes, they are political prisoners: Carme Forcadell and Dolors Bassa. [[Applauds]] With their experience, their thinking and feminist practice have changed not only their conditions in prison, but those of all the inmates who share modules with them and have managed to weave that feminist network that accompanies us women in our worst moments. For them the only decent thing is amnesty. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u39	Since it is the third time already in this sitting, Madam President, that there is a reference to political prisoners, and the previous two we have asked you, through Rule 72 in relation to 103.1, either to ask the persons who had issued those words to withdraw them or, if not, to delete them yourself from the Journal of Sessions, which you have not done, I beg you to take this last part into consideration; if you do not want to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions a similar expression, you yourself to take the decision to delete it from the Journal of Sessions. By the way, following the advice of his vice-president last week, who did exactly that with a much less harsh expression from this parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u40	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. I understand that you ask me to ask the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana, Mrs Vallugera, to withdraw the same expression from the Journal of Sessions. Mrs. Vallugera.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u41	No, no, [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u42	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Espinosa de los Monteros and Simon: That's not what I'm asking.]] I also understand the second part, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: It seemed that he had understood me. I mean, you're denying...]] Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have to start my intervention by responding to VOX from feminism. Yesterday a woman and her two children were murdered in Ubeda at the hands of her husband. There are victims because there are aggressors. There are victims because there are murderers. With your intervention, you have made it very clear which side you are on. [[Applauds]] I am now focusing on the GNP we are dealing with. Today I am looking at this T-shirt to show our solidarity with the anti-racist movement that has emerged following the murder of George Floyd in the United States, but also to denounce the racism that we live in our country; racism that, by the way, we have heard from the mouth of a group of Mossos d'Esquadra in Catalonia against a young man and here, as in the United States, Councillor Buch has chosen to close the issue and for impunity under the grey synonym of change of fate. [[wears a T-shirt with the motto 'Black lives matter']] Well, I said that I look at this shirt against racism because racism also has a lot to do with the GNP that we are dealing with, about prisons and women. And here I am going to refer to something that feminism has taught us about intersectionality, that is, how different social and cultural categories interact and provoke different levels of discrimination, because it is clear that those who enter prison and in what situations they find themselves have to do with gender, as indicated by the GNP, but also with other categories, such as the social class or ethnic group. That is why I will allow myself in this intervention to quote African-American activist and writer Angela Davis, who says that in a racist society it is not enough to be non-racist, but that we must be anti-racist. That is why we must fight against all kinds of racism, also institutional racism, in the case of George Floyd, but also - let me say this - in the cases we are dealing with in our country, such as - I must quote - that of Iliass Tahiri, who was originally from Morocco, who died at an 18-year-old youth centre in Almería, or that of Daniel Jiménez, a man of Roma ethnicity who died in a prison in Algeciras. I would like to thank the Basque Group for putting on the table such an important issue as this, that of women in prisons, since the absence of a gender perspective in our prisons is a double condemnation. We live in difficult times. Today, sensitivity to human rights and criminal guaranteeism is often questioned by punitive populism, of which we have just seen an example in the hands of VOX and the People's Group, and which promotes throughout Europe and throughout the world the extreme right; a punishment of gross brush contrary to the values of our Constitution and to the goal of social reintegration that is, as I said, reflected in our Constitution. Again I refer to the feminist teachings of Angela Davis, who says that prisons do not make social problems disappear, but rather human beings. Lack of housing, unemployment, drug addiction, mental illness and illiteracy are just some of the problems that disappear from public view when human beings struggling with them are relegated to cages. Well, as this quote from Angela Davis says, many of these problems have to do with racism and misogyny. In fact, there is an over-representation in our prisons of migrant or gypsy women for crimes against public health linked to subsistence issues. In this regard, I would like to highlight the Barañí report, a report on Roma women and the prison system, which reflects the sexist anti-gitánism that continues to permeate our State and which, of course, also permeates the courts and the penal institutions themselves. As I said at the beginning, we certainly support this GNP and will vote for it. We will also welcome the inclusion of some of the amendments, for example those referring to cross-sectorality, which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. I would also like to point out that, in fact, there are already different projects in the Ministry of the Interior and also in the Women's Institute to prepare reports in this regard. We would like to ask, in line with what the groups working in human rights and prisons are asking, that other axes of oppression such as those I mentioned during my speech be taken into account. Here I express my last thought, very brief, for trans port women. We cannot allow their gender identity to be disregarded also in prisons. Their rights are now defended by the instruction on prison integration of transgender persons, approved during the socialist government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Well, trans women, thanks to this instruction, are entered into women's modules. We will continue to fight not only not to take a step backwards in the rights of trans people, but to continue to move forward, because - let us remember - the rights of trans people are human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u44	Thank you, Mrs. García. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, why are you asking for the floor right now?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u45	At the moment, Madam President, in the use of Rule 72 in relation to Rule 71.3, for alluding to the decorum of this House that we have been directly made.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u46	What are the allusions?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u47	He said: If there are victims, there must be aggressors, and we already know which side VOX is on. And if you know, you'll know that VOX is always on the side of the victims, regardless of their sex or race. Not like you... [[Rumors]] When they're done, I'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u48	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u49	Not like you, who choose some victims over others and put some T-shirts on which they say there are some lives that matter. I'll tell you one thing: they matter all lives, whatever their race, whatever their sex and whoever their attacker is. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u50	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u51	Thank you, President. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to express our firm rejection of this Sunday's macho murder in my land, in my province, in Jaén. A criminal sexist murdered a woman and her two children in Ubeda. It is not a family crime, as Mr. Moreno Bonilla, president of the Andalusian board and political hostage of VOX, has called it. It's gender-based violence, ladies and gentlemen. Gender violence! And I'm going to tell you why it's gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] It's gender-based violence because machismo kills and they're killing us for being women. By the way, those who deny violence against women become accomplices to sexism and violence as well. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, I would like to convey to you the wisdom of your initiative. Incorporating the gender perspective and the feminist perspective into all public policies is a legal mandate that we must fulfil and that the Spanish Government has very internalized. Public administrations have an obligation to know in a differentiated way how our actions affect women and men, and to correct them if they are built with a look that places men as the center of everything, and the case of penal institutions is very evident. Mainstreaming the gender perspective into prison institutions is a work that the Government is already doing, but we will continue to do. We therefore consider, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, that the report you are requesting is a good tool for getting the diagnosis and building on insurance. In fact, the Ministry of the Interior itself, in December 2019, has already launched an investigation aimed at all inmates who have the same object as you request here. Therefore, as I said to you, I would like to thank you for your initiative and show you our support and support as you have presented it. Ladies and gentlemen, PNV's GNP complies with a law, Law 3/2007, on effective equality between women and men. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this law was driven by a socialist government, with the support of all the political groups present at the time in the House, with the exception of the abstention of the People's Party. Then, in 2007, the People's Party and VOX were campaigning in the same ranks; today, in 2020, they are no longer campaigning in the same ranks but they are campaigning in the same ideas, and that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is very dangerous, because their lordships of VOX are loudspeakers of machismo and, together with those loudspeakers, the right, all together, have tried to criminalise by all means on March 8. [[applause]] And look, they haven't made it, the judge has filed the case, there's no political responsibility and there's no connection between March 8 and the contagion. [[Applauds]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not said by the PSOE's Equality Spokesperson, says the Spanish justice system. They have lied, lied without deceiving themselves, accusing feminists of criminals, and the witch hunt to which they have subjected the entire feminist movement and the Government of Spain requires and requires correction. Apologize, ladies and gentlemen of the right, apologize to the Spanish feminists and my colleague José Manuel Franco. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, PNV's GNP calls for a gender perspective in public policy, and we are going to talk about a gender perspective. Whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen of the right, feminist public policies have come to stay, because only with feminist views in institutions can we combat violence against women, because only with a gender perspective in institutions can we advance in the recognition of our rights as citizens and because thanks to equal laws we women have access to representation positions, all those on the left and those on the right, the daughter of a worker in the house and of a mason, and the heiress of a marqueado. [[Applauds]] Like prison policy and public policy in general, the gender perspective and the feminist perspective also have to permeate all social and economic reconstruction, and this group is going to put all its effort into it. I'm done, Madam President. My feminist companion, writer Nuria Varela, says that there is no place in the world where there is no feminism anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the far right, you have arrived very late, because the feminist movement is already everywhere, because you are a macho reflux of a wave that is unstoppable and because you have just landed in these Courts to clash over and over again with the firmness of an egalitarian and feminist government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Berja. [[Pausa.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mr Agirretxea Urresti asks for the floor.]] Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u53	For allusions. I waited at the end of the point to ask for my turn. Mrs VOX said that my group is collecting nuts from ETA, which is far more serious than political prisoners. I am going to ask her not to remove from the Journal of Sessions what she has said, because everyone has to be consistent with what she says, in the same way that I want them to put in the Journal of Sessions that I have said they are nuts of Francoism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u54	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. I understand from your speech, Mr Agirretxea, that you will provide the Bureau with the compromise amendment when it is negotiated. I remind you that, in any case, it has to be before the end of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u55	That will be so, Madam President. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON THE STATUS OF ELECTRONITIVE CONSUMERS TO GUARANTEE THE COMPETITIVENESS OF THE INDUSTRIES CONCERNED. [[LORD MAZÓN RAMOS]] [[File number 162/000139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u56	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the status of electrointensive consumers to ensure the competitiveness of the industries concerned. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost four months since we tabled this non-legislative proposal in this Parliament and, although many things have happened, I believe that today is more necessary, even then. If the February news has already introduced great uncertainty in the energy system, imagine yourself at the moment. The text has three different concepts. The first is the reduction of aid announced in February for cogeneration. The announcement of this reduction alone meant for Sniace, an emblematic company in Cantabria, over seventy years old, its closure and the dismissal of more than four hundred workers, counting only direct employment. The second point concerns the status of electric intensive consumers, which I will briefly explain. And the third, the European funds for decarbonisation, mainly investment aid. In this case, we refer in particular to Solvay, a company based in Torrelavega, because it would stay out of these funds. Interestingly, it is the only company in Spain that stays out and, precisely because it does not reach a minimum, has a disadvantage with respect to the large thermal power plants, which use coal as fuel to produce energy. It seems common sense that these funds should also be used for their energy transition. I will be given a little explanation of the status of electro-intensive industries for Members and citizens who are not aware of these aspects. An electro-intensive consumer is considered to be one to whom the cost of energy represents about 50 % of its production costs. For this high amount, energy takes raw material into account in its production process. It is not one more of the costs that companies have in economic activities, such as electricity billing, within other minor costs, and this mainly affects metallurgy, the steel industry and part of the chemical industry. In general, it is not necessary to import energy, like other raw materials, and it has a special characteristic, and the price is determined by the policy of the respective governments. The price of other raw materials on the domestic and international markets is not different for competitiveness, since almost all of them have similar prices. I am not going to go into detail on specific figures, on the price of megawatts/hours or on the millions of aid from the funds, but I am going to give you an example. In France and Germany they have a differential cost of around 20 or 25 euros per megawatt/hour compared to a magnitude of 50. What is really relevant to this Congress is that the most important factors to compete depend to a large extent on ourselves. The bottom line is what role we want industry to play in our production system. In theory, most parties and associations, even the majority of the population, want industry, and it is logical, because industry provides stable and quality employment. I remember that, when I was an advisor to the branch, a survey was carried out among the population for the Regional Planning Plan of the Territory, asking people to comment on what Cantabria wanted to be. The answer was very clear in favour of two concepts: industry and landscape. This is what people wanted, an environmentally sustainable industry, and now that we are at this stage of economic reconstruction we should remember these aspects. For this reason, this non-law proposal reflects the sentiment of the Autonomous Communities of Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria, which have submitted allegations of the status of electrointensive consumers and which have shown their concern about the treatment they receive. For the most part, these three autonomous communities are those that have probably suffered the greatest decline in recent years. The most important conclusion of the allegations is that the continuity of most of the companies concerned was at serious risk and there was a great danger of relocation. I recognize that the draft statute submitted by the Government is full of good intentions and, in addition, its memory provides truly very interesting data which, as I have said here, cannot be explained, but which are valued. It is also necessary to take into account the valuations made in the allegations; in short, what was requested was that electric or hyper-electric consumers should be well differentiated; that the costs of access tolls should be reduced; that the tax burden set out in the 2012 law should be offset by a new tax on generation and the green cent on coal; that compensation should be set at the European Union's maximum line for indirect CO2 compensations; and that the interruptibility service, which is a service provided by companies, should be consolidated in order to stop production where there is a shortage of energy for the whole system. The two most important conclusions of the allegations are: that the current cost of energy in Spain is insurmountable for the most intensive consumers, much higher than international competitors, and the price of sale of the product, however, has to be in the same line. Most of the reference countries have taken important steps, mainly Germany and France. And another conclusion was the urgency of revising that draft statute and approving it as soon as possible. In conclusion, I would like to reflect. Recently, it seems that it is not politically correct to support large companies; rather, the opposite is true; it is a matter of charging them more and more with taxes, as if they did not need the resources for their investments and left them everywhere; and they seem to forget that, the larger the companies, the more they need for their investments and for their transition, which is being developed elsewhere at a sharp pace. What is clear is that in the world they are not sleeping, and if we do not support them, it will happen the same thing that happened to us with the masks, that we were not able to make them and in the end we had to import them. This mentality of going without discriminating against companies, against large companies, is enormously outdated and ignores the movement or general trend on corporate social responsibility that is taking place in much of the world, which puts priority not on the maximum benefit, but on the contribution to social needs, on improving the conditions of workers and on having in their processes, always the environmental criterion. And this type of business is currently strategic in all medium-developed countries. That's why it's necessary to have a minimum...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u58	Mr. Mazón, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u59	I'm done. It is necessary to have a minimum of them because, among other things, secure regulation ends up attracting investment. And right now we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros that are waiting for the new regulation. With regard to the amendments, I will then try to make a round with the parties to see if we reach a compromise because, in general, I believe that there is a great deal of agreement on the fundamental criteria of this non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u60	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. [[Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio asks for the floor.]] On the basis of what article does the word ask for?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u61	Well, I'm just talking without a microphone.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u62	No, it's just that without a microphone you don't hear it well.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u63	I don't know the article, for the same reason that they've been asked to. Please, I ask you to withdraw, please - I repeat twice - to withdraw the expression 'Basque political enterprises'. The Andalusian command...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u64	Thank you, honourable Member, you do not have the floor. Thank you very much. It's understood. [[Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril Barrio:... who is a murderer...-Applause]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea spoke in defence of the amendments tabled by the groups, by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u65	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, aratsalde on. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria today presents us with a PNL that raises three points. Two of the points address two issues facing industry in general: one, by the regulation contained in the draft Statute for Electrointensive Consumers, and the other, by the proposal for an updated order for the remuneration of renewables, cogeneration and waste for the period 2020-2025, which has meant a significant reduction in their regulated remuneration, which may have a negative impact on industrial competitiveness and business performance. And the third point is that funds for decarbonisation should be negotiated with the European Union. With regard to points 1 and 3 of the GNP, this group fully agrees. On the one hand, because we have always maintained our strong support for cogeneration because we understand that it is an ally for industry and energy systems, providing competitiveness and efficiency. We understood that it was necessary to adjust the performance parameters of cogenerations to the current situation of plants, but not to the way in which it has been achieved, since it harms industrial competitiveness and business performance, more, if possible, at this time of health crisis, in order to further alleviate the imbalances caused by the fall of electricity markets. We say again that industrial policy cannot be mortgaged by short-term political decisions, but must accompany industry so that it can move towards sustainable and circular industrialization. On the other hand, it must be said that, given the reality of some regions that have experienced coal and are now to be transformed without leaving serious social damage on this path, it is necessary that the European fund for Spain be greater than the one announced, more, if it is possible, now that, after the pandemic, the Fair Transition Fund will feed on more than an additional 25 billion in the next multiannual financial framework and 30 billion in the recovery fund, which Brussels calls the next generation of the European Union. However, with regard to point two, we have recorded an amendment, not because we do not agree with the demands of the electro-intensive industry, but because if it is accepted as drafted it would be to the detriment or to the detriment of those SMEs that would be favoured by the current drafting of the Statute of the electro-intensive consumer, and I explain myself. The report of joint allegations submitted by the above-mentioned autonomous governments basically proposes to reconsider the conditions of the initial proposal of the ministry in February 2019, as it focuses on its interest in the status of a large electric consumer and thereby improve the economic rebates of access to businesses at 6.4. The main claims that have been presented in this allegation report can be summarized in several respects: considerations to be electrointensive, electrical consumption greater than 40 gigawatts per year; in the 2020 project it is greater than one gigawatt. The claim reduces from 600 to about 200 companies that can access the statute at the state level, and in the case of Euskadi there are only 19 companies with consumption greater than 40 gigawatts. The objective of achieving a reduction of tolls of at least 10 euros in tariff 6.4 is what they propose. The truth is that the amendments he is putting forward do not indicate how they are going to achieve this. In the consumption in the valley period, at tariff 6 - more than 55% - the draft royal decree establishes a lower percentage and this higher demand for electricity consumption in the valley period certainly further restricts access to the electro-intensive condition, which in itself is already a quite demanding value. On the other hand, two categories of electric intensive consumers are established, which does not propose the 2020 project: the highly electric intensive consumer and the electric intensive consumer, and this classification is basically established to apply different levels of compensation. Thus, two levels of compensation are established according to category: highly electro-intensive consumer with 85% compensation, and electro-intensive consumer with 60% compensation, and this, in our view, is more likely to favour the most electro-intensive; it is more likely to favour the first category, the highly electro-intensive. The European guidelines only set the maximum limit of 85 %. The aim is to introduce compensation for network costs in access tariffs. The costs of access to the networks are outside the scope of the statute, which faces the 85% reduction in fees with the premiums for renewables, cogeneration and compensation to non- peninsular territories. Therefore, and bearing in mind that the status of electric intensive consumers has not yet been approved, we cannot accept point two because simply the consideration of consumption greater than 40 gigawatts per year would limit the application of the status to fewer companies in the whole State, and in particular in the Basque Country to less than 20 companies, with a large number of Basque companies excluded. That is why we have proposed an amendment to study the claims of these autonomous communities, but without doing so to the detriment of SMEs that as energy consumers do not exceed the 40 gigawatts that appear in Cantabria's claims. We therefore hope that you will accept our amendment, because it is not a question of harming any industry but of everyone being benefited by their specificities, because a successful industrial policy, in short, requires an analysis of the environment and even of each industry sector, since each one evolves differently, has its own characteristics and key factors of competitiveness. Thus, for example, one sector is not the same as another. That is why equal aid for each of the companies is not equitable, it can even undermine one another and favour the other. Hence our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u67	Thank you. Over the last decade the price of the electricity generation market has recorded continuous increases reaching record levels, levels that make our electrically intensive companies and, in general, the companies of our country unfeasible. The explanation for these developments is based both on the increase in regulated costs, which is the result of poor regulation, and on the sharp rise in the CO2 emission price and the rise in raw material prices. The cost of these rights has come to experience an inordinate rise, it has almost tripled its price in recent years, is unabsorbed. The data show the maintenance of our energy dependence, the limited gap between economic growth and pollutant emissions that has been consolidated in this decade, and, in relation to all this, the limited renewable production with which our electricity system relies in the summer months. These facts motivate the closure of electro-intensive industries such as Alcoa, which are still waiting for a situation of improvement. In October 2018, the multinational Alcoa announced its intention to shut down primary aluminum manufacturing plants, and today it is already a reality. The company argued to the trade union representatives that the closure was due to structural and technological problems, however, the Spanish Government has repeatedly opted for a confrontational attitude ruling out that these were the real reasons. The statements of the vice president, Teresa Ribera, who said that it was an excuse or a smokescreen that the multinational alluded to the high cost of electricity, produce a shock with the obvious reality: that the price of electricity in the Spanish generation market has increased its price incredibly and has gone from 50 euros watt/hour to exceed 80 euros at the time of the announcement of the closure of Alcoa, but Alcoa is not isolated, Cémex and Vestas have already announced the closure of several of its plants. We must remember Spain's great industrial deficit, a sector that is currently suffering a great deal from the closure due to the coronavirus. For all these reasons, there is sufficient motivation for the Government of Spain to take clear and decisive steps to reverse this situation. However, despite the fact that the Royal Decree-Law 20/2018 was validated in Congress and that it established six months for the publication of the Statute of the electric intensive consumer, it has been a year and a half and we still don't have it here. On the other hand, there is the problem of cogeneration. Cogeneration currently plays an essential role in both the electricity system and the industrial sector in our country. As of 31 December 2018, according to the electricity grid data, it provided slightly more than 5700 megawatts installed in the entire electricity system, however, the most significant role in the electricity sector is its production capacity, covering up to 11.4% of peninsular demand in the past year, only behind nuclear and wind power. Faced with this reality, when the Ministry for the Ecological Transition recently publishes the retributive parameters of this type of energy, we find that there is a global cut of approximately 35% for these installations. Furthermore, the calculation of the emission price values on the European rights market does not offer the possibility of periodic review, which makes it even more difficult. In these circumstances, plants are given less remuneration than they would be entitled to as agreed. In fact, the announcement of these parameters has served to finish the activity of Sniace, a cogeneration company of the Autonomous Community of Cantabria on which many jobs depend, has more than 400 direct jobs, which almost double if the indirect ones are taken into account. In addition, it is located in an area particularly punished since the last economic crisis; if the unemployment rate in Cantabria is around 11%, there is a registered unemployment rate of 19.6% in Torrelavega. And if it already has such a high unemployment rate, the effects it is going to cause in the city are certainly worrying. In conclusion, we believe that the status of the electric intensive consumer should be implemented and that prices for the remuneration of cogeneration should be reviewed. From Citizens we are no stranger to this problem and believe that there is scope for defining a clear and decisive energy and industrial policy based on different measures, such as substantially increasing the amounts of compensation mechanisms for direct greenhouse gas emissions, promoting bilateral energy delivery contracts or promoting a legislative framework for the implementation of closed electricity networks. Similarly, we have tabled some amendments aimed at improving the situation in the cogeneration sector by revising its remuneration parameters on the basis of those costs which could be changed much more frequently. We believe that it is necessary to look at the industry in the most general way possible, especially because electricity from the electro-intensive industry depends heavily on jobs and economic recovery after this crisis of the COVID-19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u69	Thank you, Madam President. We agree with the proposer that the status of the electric intensive consumer should be approved as soon as possible in order to generate a stable and predictable framework in the price of electricity for companies in this sector, particularly relevant in Galicia. It should only be remembered that at this time the main electro-intensive company of our country, Alcoa San Cibrao, is in the midst of a crisis with the decision to close the aluminium plant, which would mean the dismissal of almost a thousand workers between the staff and the auxiliary companies, and a brutal economic impact for the entire region of A Mariña; a crisis that erupts when there is still no solution of stability for the former Alcoa A Coruña, now Alu Iberiana, and that, regardless of whether other factors converge at this time, it originated in the high price of electricity, which in Galicia is even less explainable than in the Spanish State because we are historically a surplus producing country of electricity. That is why the BNG calls for decisive action by the Spanish Government and also by the Xunta to save the jobs of Alcoa and Alu Ibérica. We believe that decisive action is being taken by the public intervention of the plants and by the establishment of a Galician electricity tariff, which reduces the costs of electricity to the whole industry in our country and also to the private sector. I'm done. In any case, we believe that the alternatives identified by the proposer in relation to the statute are very limited, and that it is logical for the Government to address all those allegations that go in the direction of ensuring that this is an effective tool, including those presented by the BNG itself, by the Galega Inter-Union Confederation, which is the majority of workers in the sector in Galicia, and by other trade unions and social actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u70	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u71	In view of the hyperactivity of Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, probably the first 1. [[anti-doping control should start with it]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u72	Mr. Baldoví, please... 1 Words withdrawn by Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u73	Now I'm going to serious things.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u74	... I ask for respect between you, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u75	Okay. I'm going to get serious.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u76	I understand that you withdraw what you have said.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u77	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u79	No problem, but I think so. [[Laughter]] We agree with the Cantabria proponent that we need to have a regulatory framework favourable to cogeneration, and in our case because the Castellón blue industry - which is the fifth largest in the world, exports almost 75% of its production and generated 28 billion euros in exports last year - deserves this framework to be regulated once and for all, as was approved in this House in December 2018 before a compromise proposal. Cogeneration involves energy efficiency, sustainability, support for industry and, above all, the competitiveness of a sector like ours, the ceramic sector. And what is good for companies is also good for the environment. We reduce polluting gases, reduce energy consumption and, in addition, impact on the ceramic product and, therefore, make us much more competitive. We therefore agree with the proposal for major strokes. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The non-legislative proposal that we are discussing today addresses two very important issues affecting the Catalan industry: the economic viability of the current cogeneration plants and the establishment of a specific statute for certain electro-intensive industries. With reference to point one of the proposal, we believe that it is necessary to approve programmes for the technological renewal of such installations to energy-efficient installations, in compliance with the Renovation Plan set out in the additional provision 20 of Law 24/2013 of the Electrical Sector. Those programmes shall include a specific remuneration allowing the economic viability of the new installations. Furthermore, as long as existing facilities are not eligible for programmes to be developed for the technological renewal of cogeneration facilities, a remuneration shall be established for the extended operation. This remuneration shall be the one recognised in the last six months of the last year of service, revised, and shall not be paid until 2030 at the latest. With regard to point two, we request that the allegations submitted by the Government of the Government of Catalonia through the Department of Enterprise and Coneixement be complied with, as well as those submitted by the Catalan Institute of Energy. We insist that the economic envelope for compensation for indirect costs arising from greenhouse gas emissions be as important as possible. Icaen's claims amounted to EUR 200 million for this year. Junts per Catalunya is in favour of the non-law proposal and we ask the Regionalist Party of Cantabria to take into account the amendments tabled by our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u83	President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with many of the statements made by the proposer, Mr Mazón. Of course, I agree that the Spanish economy needs a strong industrial fabric, capable of generating stable and quality employment and driving change towards a sustainable model that curbs climate change. We therefore propose the need for a strategy for green re-industrialisation that sets up an industrial fabric that is, firstly, innovative, in order to regain the global leadership that we have already had in many sectors, such as renewable energy, where we were the second country in Europe and have now fallen to the number sixteen for inadequate policies of past governments; secondly, that it be clean, because an industry that is against the environment can no longer be understood but in favour of, and that generates quality and stable employment. The decline of our industrial fabric is a serious problem for our economy and socially disastrous because of the fall in employment. We therefore radically oppose the closure of Alcoa's and other plants mentioned in the cantabrian regionalist party's non-legislative proposal, but we also believe that we should look towards the years of People's Party government in which there was no industrial policy. To stop this fall it is essential to approach a process of transformation for our industrial fabric to regenerate, but without destroying the current employment. The crisis of COVID-19 has shown us that delocalizing production is a losing strategy. Indeed, the Government's long-term objective is to develop a plan based on decarbonization of the economy until emissions neutrality is achieved by 2050. The National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan establishes the basis for the period 2021-2030; it promotes energy efficiency, renewable energy, digitization and just transition. It is estimated that total investments to achieve the objectives of the PNIEC will reach EUR 241 billion between 2021 and 2030, creating more than 300 000 jobs. European funds should play a role in mobilizing these investments. This line of work is likely to be addressed in the meetings and contacts that the Ministry for the Ecological Transition maintains with the cogeneration sector through its associations and the companies themselves in the sector. In addition, a package of aid is currently being negotiated in Europe which will be key to the thrust of this plan. But, look!, there is one issue on which I think we are out of focus in this debate. Alcoa's problem is not energy; it's the excuse used to justify closure, but it's false. Since 2008, the analysis of industrial electricity prices in Spain has not reached the 1% share. Undoubtedly, it is not among the reasons that have led companies like Alcoa to make the decision to close some of their production in this country. Alcoa argues that under the current conditions the plants it is planning to close are not profitable and it has also denied that it enjoys conditions in favor of electricity consumption, but in the last decade the steel company has received approximately 1 billion euros - 1 billion euros - in the form of different stimuli, including so-called interruptibility auctions; 1 billion euros that the company has taken from the public arches. The price of electricity is not the same for all, ladies and gentlemen; domestic consumers, more than 25 million, are the tailor's drawer where you can put everything or almost everything, and it is domestic consumers who are paying that fee. The large electro-intensive industry has taken advantage of this and above all Alcoa. The American company has been in our country for more than half a century. Year after year he complained until a suit was made to suit him; interruptibility auctions were invented, which are basically an invention by which consumers subsidize the big industry. And this has to be said because it is, it is. We talk all the time about auctions and the status of the electro-intensive, but we are the consumers who are financing it. There are other alternatives and there is no doubt, be assured, that on the part of the government there is no obstacle to Alcoa moving forward, including the search for energy alternatives that are efficient and valid so that Alcoa can continue to work. The problem is not the price of energy and the problem is not the governments; the problem is the company that does not want to continue, that has not invested, that has not improved, that has not taken into account the future of its workers. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen, and that's what we have to say here. [[Applauds]] In addition, this case again puts on the table the need for public aid to companies to be accompanied by a commitment by companies to innovation, to sustainability, but also to the country. If a company receives substantial funds from the State, it must be committed to staying in the country. This, ladies and gentlemen, in some ways, cannot be overlooked, because it is happening to us over and over again and there is nothing more to think about, for example, in the recent case of Nissan. As for cogeneration, and I'm finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u84	Mr. López de Uralde, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u85	I'm done too fast. As for cogeneration, during March the main associations in the sector have already met with the Ministry and are looking for a way out in order to make progress on the issue raised by the GNP itself. At present, the discussion is under internal analysis and the assessment of the sector's proposals and the study of possible measures within the reach of the Government to address this problem. In short, we have tabled together with the Socialist Group a number of amendments which we hope the proposer will take into consideration, in which case we will be in favour of the non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u86	Thank you, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Rueda Perelló has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u87	Thank you, Madam President. After what I have heard this afternoon and seen in other sessions, I ask, please, your ladies and gentlemen, respect and human quality. Today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal that in its explanatory statement underlines that last February Sniace announced to the National Securities Market Commission the closure of its company and the request for liquidation. With 429 direct jobs, about 1000 indirect jobs and 80 years of existence, the closure is near; and it is close because this government seems to be not managing the new energy regulation very well. There are negative consequences for other companies that can also lead to their closure, due to cuts in support of cogeneration and electro-intensive. Industry needs certainty, calls for a new regulatory framework that recognizes our uniqueness as a major consumer of electricity, and the Government must equip it with the effective means to compete in international markets. The sector is concerned about an electro-intensive consumer status that does not solve the serious problem facing key companies in the Spanish economy, which maintain almost 200,000 jobs, and today PP and PSOE are presenting amendments calling for their urgent approval. The industry needs solutions and the future, maintaining the interruptibility service in 2020, a final electricity price similar to that of its European competitors, approving mechanisms that enable competitive, stable and predictable electricity supply. The Spanish electric power industry pays for electricity more expensive than Germany or France, between 20 and 30 %. They are very concerned and call for dialogue to find a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the Wuhan virus has shown the need to strengthen Spanish industry. The industrial sector has for more than thirty years lost relevance in the Spanish economy, with episodes of high destruction of its fabric, such as relocations in the 1990s and the 2008 crisis, although it denied the Socialist Party. The sector is falling and we are moving away from the 20% targets set by Brussels. After decades of retreat in which parties such as PP and PSOE have ruled, we now see the closure of businesses and the destruction of thousands of jobs. Bipartisanism has solved nothing. Spain needs to strengthen its industry: metallurgical, energy, pulp, paper and cardboard, cement, textile, automotive, minerals, food, chemical-pharmaceutical, agricultural, fishing, all industrial sectors, making them stronger and more competitive. Certification and legal certainty as keys to investment and employment. This Government should not allow the Spanish industrial fabric to weaken or disappear. Drive our industry, increase our export role; gentlemen of the government, take care of the general interest, which must be above your political agenda. Alcoa has put measures on the table, the sector talks to them and does not listen to them; focus on solving problems and not creating them, work a fair transition for our industry. While China and India comply, or rather fail to comply, with CO2 emission protocols, Chinese products are sold, being unfair competition for the Spanish. They develop energy plans with the aim of achieving Spain's energy self-sufficiency on the basis of cheap, sustainable, efficient and clean energy, and not plans that increase poverty in certain territories. Sensitive transition. We will vote in principle in favour of this non-legislative proposal to ensure the competitiveness of industry. I say in principle why it will depend on the amendments. Finally, I would like to thank the manufacturing companies that in this great crisis were converted to provide personal protective equipment, respirators or disinfectant gels when international markets were collapsing and when this Government was making erroneous purchases. Thanks to all the people who have worked to help others, we are a great country. My deepest condolences to the relatives of the deceased, words of encouragement to the sick and their relatives. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, 6000 initiatives since 10 March. For the people who trust us, for those we represent, for Spain, we are doing very good work. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Rueda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Castillo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr López de Uralde, statements such as yours or that of Mr Garzón lead to the relocation of our country's industry. A little respect, please. [[Applauds]] Now yes, I begin my intervention with one of the meanings of the word government, an meaning contained in the Dictionary of the Spanish Royal Academy: helm of the ship. Well, to the helm, to the government of this ship that is Spain we would say that there is no one, or even worse, there is a pilot who like The Dutch wanderer has made a pact with the devil to surf eternally and to everything traps the seas, to stay in power at all costs, go. Do you know how the legend ends? God punishes the Dutchman to sail for all eternity, yes, but without direction and without being able to ever reach port. Ladies and gentlemen, the port that this Government was to reach on industrial matters was the adoption of a stable regulatory framework and has not done so. A competitive industrial fabric is a lever to cope with economic recessions, it is a generator of quality employment, driving technological innovation and synonymous with a country's economic strength. Ladies and gentlemen, this government's desire for energy regulation has prevented the adoption of the status of electro-intensive consumers. Mr. Mazón, you who rule in Cantabria with the Socialist Party and who repeatedly engulfs you in this room, when will you cease to be an accomplice to that crime of failure to provide relief to our industry? A continuing crime, I'll explain it to you later. It has been impossible for this government to maintain reasonable dialogue with industry and with Europe. They had six months to draft and approve the status of electrointensive consumers and today, a year and a half later, they come here to ask us for a political commitment, a political commitment that the People's Party already demonstrated in December 2018, when Mr Sánchez came to this house without sufficient support to approve the actual decree of urgent measures. I would remind you that, thanks to the abstention of the People's Party, the adoption of these urgent measures was encouraged. Then came the hearing and public information process, in March 2019, and once again they made a flagrant mistake: they ignored Brussels completely. The decree provided for exemptions from capacity payments and the interruptibility of a particular group of consumers. It was likened to what were state aid, aid declared illegal by the European Commission. Measures affecting the degree of competitiveness of companies and you have irresponsibly withdrawn from public consultation without prior notification to the European Commission of the aid mechanisms contained therein and without waiting for full authorisation from Europe. What is the result of this sinister defeat? Since the Government has mocked the Spanish industry, the Government has abandoned the families of Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria and many other parts of Spanish geography. They have left them at the stand: Alcoa, Arcelor, Ferroatlántica, Nissan, Global, Solvay. Avoiding responsibility is easy, the difficult thing is to avoid consequences, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party will once again demonstrate its commitment to the industry in this country. We agree - as I agree with you - with the GNP presented by Mr Mazón, but we have introduced a number of amendments which can be the real instrument of demand for industry in our country. First, we urge the Government to implement the provisions of additional provision 20 of Law 24/2013 of 26 December. In other words, a renewed plan for cogeneration facilities for high energy efficiency facilities under economic rationality criteria and competitive competition procedures. In the coming years, a large part of the cogeneration park will reach the end of its regulatory life. There is an urgent need to ensure the continuity of the plants in operation. And I will remind you that this law was approved by the People's Party, because it has been said in this House that the People's Party has done nothing for industry. Solvay is a clear example of a gas cogeneration plant that ends its life on December 31, 2023. We believe that this contribution can be able to reinvest in better equipment, obtain better energy yields and lower the cost of production. Our second amendment calls on the Government to urgently adopt the status of electro-intensive consumers and to introduce the allegations made by the Xunta de Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria. It is necessary - and I am finished, Your Honor - a compensatory effort that focuses primarily, but not exclusively, on those companies that are most exposed to the loss of competitiveness by the costs of electricity. I end with the third of the amendments tabled. We ask you to include in the next General State Budgets a heading for the reindustrialization of the Torrelavega area and its region, an area that has seen how its industry has been dying progressively over time.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u90	Mrs. Castillo, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u91	I'm done, President; excuse me. An industry that has just closed, like Sniace, with 429 families, 429 direct jobs, more than a thousand indirect jobs and that if it had continued open could have helped in this health crisis with the production of cellulose and fiber. Thank you very much. I hope that all this will be a real instrument of demand. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Castillo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u93	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mazón, you are well aware that the Government has on its agenda, and rather preferably, the issues to which your initiative refers. Let us begin with the statute, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group. It was 2013 and Minister Soria already committed for that year a solution for the electro-intensive industry. Too bad it was never real. In addition, it maintained a regulatory framework that posed serious threats on the part of the European authorities to penalise Spain with millions of fines, an issue that could have been avoided thanks to the efforts of the current Government and which, if implemented, would have meant a tremendous loss to the sector. The People's Party Government dismantled the Ministry of Industry and lacked any glimpse of an industrial strategic plan. Nothing that can surprise us. In Galicia, with Alcoa's serious problem, we see how the president of the Xunta, Núñez Feijóo, intends to delete article 30 of the Galician Statute and thus avoid his responsibility, the responsibility of those who do have full competence in the field of industry. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo has full competence in the field of industry. [[Applauds]] Unlike this process, the current Government, with a temporary framework lashed by successive electoral calls, opened the dialogue with the sector and with the autonomous communities. The various allegations presented in the initial text were collected and rigorous work was carried out to establish that the resulting statute was not rebutted by the European authorities and provided certainty and stability, essential values for the business world. This is, of course, our amendment, Mr Mazón, to address the allegations, but always with the assurance that they comply with European rules. We cannot afford the luxury of penalties in the form of millionaire fines for our industry. But to save the electro-intensive industry, we know that it is not enough for a statute, which, by the way, is ready to go to the Council of State's opinion. I quote: 'Alcoa is no longer worth it even if it is given electricity. It's a group decision.' This phrase was pronounced in this Congress by the head of the Workers' Commissions Industry. It confronts us with a raw business reality and points out the need to incorporate strategic plans for our industry that cannot be limited to the price of electricity, by the way, with a gap with Europe that has been significantly reduced and that future studies even place negative figures within a few years. The Reindus Plan, the CO2 aid, the carbon border tax, the Guarantee Reserve Fund for E-Intensive Entities, endowed with two hundred million euros that can be multiplied by three, are real elements for the sector and the reflection of the government's commitment, as well as after the efforts with the European Commissioner, Mr Thierry Breton, the E-Intensive Sector will be managed to be part of the priority ecosystems of the recently announced European Reconstruction Plan. But the main instrument, ladies and gentlemen, must be institutional loyalty and unity, both necessary to form a pact for firm, powerful and stable industry and so, for example, as in the case of Alcoa, to be able, as Gonzalo Caballero said, to achieve, our candidate for the Xunta, that the central and, yes, also autonomous governments contemplate all possible forms of intervention that are viable in the legal and economic frameworks. In the other two points, Mr Mazón, first and third, the amendment is rather in style, avoiding quoting specific companies in order to include all those in the sector. With regard to the remuneration of cogeneration, that point directly marries the actions carried out by the Government in the sense you indicate. The Ministry for the Ecological Transition proposed to the sector the holding of technical meetings to analyze its proposals, meetings in which it has participated the General Directorate of Renewable Energy, IDAE and associations of the sector. The evaluation, measures and scope of such proposals are already under internal analysis. Finally, with regard to decarbonisation, we agree that European funds must play an important role in mobilizing the investments envisaged in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan, which has an estimated investment of EUR 241 billion. As we pointed out earlier, the ministry is also addressing this line of work with the sector through its partnerships. I conclude by calling again for unity and institutional loyalty as the best formula for the reconstruction of our country, and that such unity and loyalty can be translated into that great pact by the industry offered by the Government that strengthens and strengthens our industrial fabric. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Meijón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u95	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, President. Mr. Mazon, yes, but no. You present a PNL on a problem that we know and share, but, as the operative part is written, it seems to us that it does not enter into the question, with all due respect; moreover, we find it too restrictive. Yeah, but no. Yes, I would like to make it clear that we are pleased that this initiative offers a new opportunity to discuss relevant issues which may seem to have been relegated and which, given the current context, are by no means minor. Thus, we agree that the current model has shortcomings and at a time of crisis such as the present one these are more evident than ever. We have always defended the need to bet on a competitive industry, which undoubtedly leads to progress in innovation, sustainability, development and quality occupation. Not in vain, Esquerra Republicana has presented various initiatives such as the implementation of closed energy networks - and, by the way, we continue to fight for their regulatory development -; initiative that comes from the royal decreeley that my illustrious colleague by Cadiz invoked three times ago. In the same vein, we will present an initiative shortly that will call for a regulatory framework that will provide legal certainty for cogeneration companies and encourage investment in the best available techniques to increase the competitiveness of the industrial sector, while contributing to the achievement of the energy transition, efficiency and lower emissions targets, and finally developing the programme for the renewal of cogeneration and waste plants provided for in the additional provision 20 of the Electricity Sector Act 24/2013. All this is true, but it is not, Mr Mazón, because it seems clear to us that it is necessary to reformulate all the costs of tolls and charges in order to ensure that each user of the network assumes the costs he introduces. Therefore, it is not a matter of reforming just one aspect that would introduce asymmetry with regard to other consumers, but of taking advantage of the opportunity and opportunity offered to us to make a general rethink of the model in which you and I would certainly not agree. We are clear that electrification is one of the keys to the energy transition and therefore needs adequate network costs with taxation aligned with the decarbonisation objectives. Electrointensive consumers have an undoubted industrial weight and we are aware of reality. It repeats that industries continue to be absorbed in the uncertainty about the regulated remuneration of electricity, in particular the tile sector, even though food, paper, refining, tile, chemistry or automobiles are also dangerous. In addition, the Alliance for Industry Competitiveness presents a programme consisting of ten priority proposals and the second is the approval of the status of electro-intensive consumers. Promotion of the National Workforce presents a shock plan to regain employment; point 4, immediate approval of the status of the electric intensive consumer. These companies compete in an international environment where energy prices are a key factor. We are sensitive to this reality, so we reaffirm ourselves in the comprehensive reform of the electricity sector, charges, tolls and taxation. We therefore share the need to reform the system and ensure industry's competitiveness through appropriate measures, because this crisis will come about if we come out more digital, more industrial and more sustainable. We will follow very closely the evolution of the transaction of this GNP. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón, do you accept some of the amendments tabled or will you send us a compromise amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u97	Let's try to reach a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u98	All right. Thank you very much, Mr Mazón, always before the end of the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u99	We then proceeded to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group into the Congress, so that the Government would clarify the constitutional impact of the Bureau meeting between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia held on 26 February 2020. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a nationalist conflict in Spain, and that conflict is in the first place a political conflict, as you like to repeat to yourselves, gentlemen of the Left Bank, of the ultra-left and of nationalism, in the same way that in other countries there is a strong racial conflict, as we are seeing again in recent weeks, and it is also a political conflict, because any conflict over different models of society is so. But you, the ladies and gentlemen of the Left, the ultra-left and nationalism, will never think of putting on the same level of moral respectability on both sides of that conflict, the racists and the anti-racists. [[Applauds]] Neither do I, neither do we. You will never propose a table of dialogue and reunion between the two sides of that conflict, and neither will I, our group. Because we, the People's Group, are and will be in the defence of those who have moral and democratic reason, that is, the anti-racists, who fight racism. Similarly, I will not or will not put on the same level in Spain those who respect democratic rules, the rule of law and the Constitution and those who skip those rules and mock the rule of law and the Constitution. That is what the government of the PSOE and the United States is doing We can in Spain with the so-called bilateral table of dialogue and reunion between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat which you formalized last February in Moncloa and which now intend to continue from July, as you have repeated over and over again. And you do it by manipulating the concepts of conflict and dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, stop manipulating the concept of dialogue. Stop mixing the vast majority of Spanish Democrats with minorities who are proving that they do not respect democratic rules. Put yourselves, at once, on the side of that vast majority of democratic citizens, on the side of the rule of law, on the side of the Constitution and on the side of democracy. And stop calling immobility the defense of democracy, as Minister Darias did here when she responded to our spokesman's question. Do you know who they remind me of? They remind me of those, many of them socialists, who called us reactionaries to whom we were then in the anti-terrorist movement. They'll remember it perfectly. Now they call us immobilizers. Why? For defending democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why the nationalist conflict has lasted so many years and so hard in Spain? By attitudes like yours, ladies and gentlemen of the left and the left. You have been rewarding for decades the break-up of democratic rules and the table for dialogue with parties with sedition convicts who reaffirm themselves in their crimes and who, in addition, presume that they are going to commit them again. It is part of that award, as is the purification of loyal servants of the State, who have defended the rule of law against the crimes of 1 October, a long list in which the last cleansed has been Colonel Diego Pérez de los Cobos, head of the police apparatus during 1 October, or Carmen Tejera, the lawyer of the head of the State of Finance who demonstrated the misappropriation on 1 October. To this you have joined the efforts of the socialist prosecutor general Dolores Delgado, who to help those who participated in those crimes what he did last week, as we know, is to ask for a reduction of the request for conviction for José Luis Trapero, former chief of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Even here the President herself of this House treats the groups unevenly, as she has again demonstrated today. When we ask for something to be left in the minutes, he takes it away from us. However, when nationalist parties say political prisoners, an intolerable expression in democracy, they do not withdraw it. We just saw him here again today. [[Applauds]] And it is that, ladies and gentlemen of the left and the ultra-left, you are negotiating a constituent process, which the Minister of Justice would say, with the nationalist parties. And do you know why these nationalist parties are so strong in Catalonia and the Basque Country? Because there it is very difficult to defend this nation, Spain, and our Constitution, because that defense is paid very dearly, as I have shown you with the memory of these last cleansings and as we know thousands and thousands of Basques and Catalans. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, you feel somewhat uncomfortable with the concept of dry patriotism, we know that; we do not, but we know that you do. That is why I propose to you a concept of patriotism in which we can find ourselves the vast majority of the members of this House, which is the concept of constitutional patriotism, which simply means adherence to the basic political norms governing the coexistence and defence of a political community. Ladies and gentlemen, they assume constitutional patriotism and on behalf of this nation called Spain, united around the values embodied in our Constitution, from the People's Group we ask you to break the bilateral table with the independence parties, to make a firm commitment to the defence of our Constitution and to put yourselves permanently on the side of that vast majority of Spaniards who respect the values and norms of the Constitution and who form this nation called Spain. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to enter into a debate with the Presidency from the speakers' rostrum, because I am certainly the only one of your ladies and gentlemen who cannot participate in the debate. In any case, I did want to record a matter. The use of the term whose withdrawal has been repeatedly requested of me at this meeting has many precedents dating back to 2012. [[Mrs. Olona Choclán: VOX was not in 2012]] Since 2012, this term has been used in this House and no President, no previous President, has ever removed it from the Journal of Sessions. This president will not apply any greater restriction to freedom of expression than my former colleagues who have taken up this responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mr Garriga Vaz de Concicao spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u102	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the People's Party for having taken into account the amendments tabled by our parliamentary group; amendments which we consider necessary to highlight the magnificent work that our National Police did in Operation Icaro, to make clear the need to restore honour, and to place the re-entry of a very excellent and brilliant person, such as the State lawyer, Mrs Carmen Tejera; and, of course, to make it clear that pardon under no circumstances should be present in that presentation. [[Applauds]] The purpose of the call, euphemistically, table of dialogue is no other, ladies and gentlemen, than the breakup of the nation. That alliance between the Socialcommunist Government and the separatists is a betrayal of more than one criminal president, who is willing to break Spain so as to remain in power. The only offer this parliamentary group has to Mr Puigdemont is a fair trial for the crimes committed. At that table, Mr. Pedro Sánchez negotiates the unity of the nation by bowing to the enemies of Spain, a price that he has gladly decided to pay the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the same president, Mr. Sánchez. But let me tell you that I believe that it is not so much to pay a fair price, a pleasant price, but to make the history of the Socialist Party, once again, a coherent story, full of disagreements and betrayals of the Spanish nation. That is what this attitude of the Socialist Party really responds to. I'm sure you'll remember Mr. Guerra's famous phrase: Spain won't even know the mother who gave birth to her. I am convinced that, in a few years' time, Mr Sánchez will be able to say: Spain is not going to know her or the mother who gave birth to her, because there is nothing left of Spain. They have agreed with separatists and communists to dismantle the rule of law and liquidate the separation of powers. And proof of this is the unending list of ceses, of dismissals, as has been mentioned in the rostrum, of Colonel Pérez de los Cobos, a demand by Esquerra Republicana, without doubt; the dismissal, as I said before, of the magnificent lawyer of the State, Mrs Carmen Tejera; the change of the Attorney General's Office to, as we see now, allow that sentence to be reduced to Trapero; and, in his day, the cessation of Mr Edmundo Bal. How things change, Lords of Citizens, before defending the Constitution and the rule of law and now acting as a crutch of a government that intends to liquidate the state of rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez has met with an illegal president, disqualified, as is President Torra; an illegal president with an illegitimate one who negotiate behind the backs of all Spaniards the future of the nation and its dismantling. Torra remains in office, no doubt, for the weakness of this Government and for the dependence of this very Government on separatism, but, as always, thanks to VOX Mr. Torra has the days counted, because we will continue to fight in the courts, in parliaments and in the streets to ensure compliance with the law. Sánchez will surely pass to history for his continuous betrayals, for reaching agreements with all the enemies of Spain - separatists, Basque nationalists, heirs of ETA - but it is important to highlight why we have arrived at the current situation. The successive governments of the People's Party, the Socialist Party, have been and are accomplices and responsible for the situation we are currently experiencing. Both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have been negotiating with the separatists for years, abandoning millions of Catalan compatriots. They have allowed a coup d'état, they have allowed illegal referendums. Do you remember the dialogue operation? They may be called 50 times constitutionalists, but I can assure you that the compatriots and, in particular, the Catalans never forget it. The nation and democracy have an obligation to defend themselves against those parties that have an obligation to destroy the indissoluble unity of the nation, to end the division of powers and to eliminate the right to vote of millions of compatriots. VOX is clear that neither dialogue tables nor covert dialogue operations; these will not be the formulas that will restore law and freedom to Catalonia. They cannot expect different results using the same formulas, so VOX defends - and is the only one - to claim the illegalization of separatist parties. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. As you waste time with the tables of dialogue between the Government of the nation and the Government of the Generality, millions of our compatriots are losing jobs and de-industrialization is getting worse and worse. Take advantage of this situation to continue to increase political spending. At that table of dialogue we do not know whether they speak of how to institute or of how to support that kleptocracy in which separatists and socialists are so well defended. Get to work, ladies and gentlemen, ensure the well-being and prosperity of all Spaniards. We assure them that we will not allow them to break our nation or to blow up our constitutional regime of rights and freedoms. Patriotism demands thank you for what you have received....
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u103	Mr. Garriga, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u104	I'm done, Madam President. Patriotism requires appreciation and improvement in order to give it as an inheritance to future generations. Abandon the lukewarmness, add to this parliamentary group, because the only way to combat the enemies of Spain is through political, social and judicial combat. Leave those policies useful and that moderate opposition. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u105	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque parliamentary group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u106	Thank you very much. The truth is that, reading the motion and hearing the presentation made by Mrs Uriarte, the debate is quite old, I would say that it is absolutely out of time, of course it is. Hearing Mrs Uriarte, it does not seem that she is presenting it either to try to reach an agreement or to seek solutions, rather it seems a call for combat seconded by the representative of VOX. I don't know what racism has to do with the table of dialogue, I don't understand it, but also, look at the intolerant vision of supremacist separatism, that's what they accuse of at the table: the cesion in front of the intolerant vision of supremacist separatism. I don't know where the supremacist gets it or what they mean, because I don't think Catalan nationalism or Basque really feels superior to anyone, but, of course, intolerant view of separatism? Intolerant vision is what you have given here in this rostrum, is that you do not accept dialogue, do not accept agreements, accept the I, I am more, the law, and moreover I do not recognize you or legitimize you. [[Rumors]] They accuse the left, moreover, that there is a servility before the nationalists, even accusing them that if there is a nationalist feeling in Euskadi or Catalonia it is because they have been rajaos. For Mrs Uriarte is Basque, but I do not think she has understood anything about her country because if she thinks that the nationalist sentiment in Euskadi is going to disappear because of the attitude of some or others, she is very wrong, indeed, I believe that certain intolerant attitudes still make the nationalist ranks more enlarged. They deny all dialogue, it is only force and imposition. In short, that is intolerance; of what they accuse others, that is intolerance. He says the table lacks legitimacy, well, I don't know, why? Well, it's not formally assembled, it's not a formula that sets the Constitution, but it's not that the Constitution says it's forbidden either. Of course, the government meets with many people, not only with other governments, it can meet with entrepreneurs, with trade unions, with sportsmen, even with political parties; if it has met with Citizens doing nothing by staging a great meeting, an agreement, well, that would also not be very constitutional, right?, if we take everything to the extreme. Indeed, at the dialogue table at the meeting of the 26th was President Tora and Vice-President Aragonese, so the Catalan Government was also represented there. In what is unconstitutional, in what is unconstitutional? To begin with, you cannot say that an agreement that has emerged from that table is unconstitutional because there have been no agreements so far, there has only been, I know, a statement, that of day 26. And the only statement, what does it say? The last paragraph states that any agreement adopted in the Bureau shall be formulated within the framework of legal certainty; that is, of the legal system. What about unconstitutionality in this? What problem do you see with him? Of course, you do not recognize that there is a political problem that needs to be tackled, that we need to be resolved and that we need to be imaginative, because do you offer something beyond 155? Do they offer anything beyond illegalization? Some, 155 and others, illegalization Is that the defense of democracy? Is that really the defence of democracy? [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the VOX Parliamentary Group]] Because here I have heard accusations of treason against the President of the Government of Spain, of handing over Spain and talking about the separatists, the communists, they lacked the Masons and we would have rounded it up by now. What does that sound like to me about Jewish-masonic-separatist-Marxist-international contubernium? Claves, you're more and more nailed to that. The representative of VOX has said this: separatists, nationalists, enemies of Spain. You are already classified: you are an enemy of Spain, well, because you say so you are enemies of Spain! In addition, they deny legitimacy. As I have already given you that qualification, I deny you the legitimacy, but the legitimacy you have with all your votes, with the people who support you, your representation in the institutions is worthless because I have put you a label, which is that of the enemy of Spain, and mine is what it is worth. I smelled tolerance, I smelled tolerance! This is an attitude, that of putting a label and simply disqualifying the opponent, denying it and putting it in a corner is pure fascism and a reflection of that is to pretend to illegalize political parties. [[applause]] I do not honestly see anything contrary to democracy, institutionality, law or coexistence in order to be able to make this table, at all, in reverse, I do not know whether it is going to bring solutions or not, but let us explore it and see if it is possible that through it there can be a germ that makes coexistence better and that we find solutions to an agreement that, I insist, is political. I believe that what they fear - and I conclude - is that this negotiation, that dialogue, that table really bears fruit. That is precisely the hope of the vast majority of Democrats in this country, who bear fruit of that table. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u107	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u108	Thank you, President. Gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, we are here to talk about a negotiating table of privileges, privileges born in the falsification of history, in the construction of a non-existent aggression and in the creation of a fiction that allows to be left-wing and at the same time nationalist. Gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, you have sometimes denounced in this very House the abuse of caciquism and of the great landlords, and I ask you: what greater cacific than the one you want to create by usurping all the Spaniards a piece of your country the nationalist parties? In Podemos for years the clothes have been torn by privatizations, but in the face of the attempt of the greatest privatization of our history, which is the one that they intend to make from one part of the state to the rest of the Spaniards, on which side do they put themselves in Podemos? Of the privatizers. In Podemos with a tweet they already empathize with all the callus and hernias discs of the field workers, but with their political action here and today they betray them. They are clamoring for refugees, but they are willing to raise more borders. We can be nationalist where there is nationalism, and that's why you'll see them with all the flags, less with everyone's flag. I understand in any case that the doctrinal corpus of Podemos is to politics what the yeti to zoology, but the Socialist Party still has some limbs. You cannot believe the same as you believe in Podemos, you cannot believe that Spain is an invention of the right. You go to that table to weaken solidarity between Spaniards, not solidarity between territories, not, because moss does not pay taxes, solidarity between Spaniards. What is more social than a country? What is more social than the fact that millions of people agree to ensure rights and freedoms? It's just that that's a country. There is no more solidary or fraternal idea. Spain is nothing abstract, Spain is a great tangible, our flag means that, it means rights, fundamental rights, social rights, health coverage, education, security, access to culture, to one of the richest cultures in the world, to see if some politicians who are saying what to throw the statue of Christopher Columbus. Spain is not a right-wing invention, an ideology has never had such a good idea. Gentlemen of the PSOE, it is impossible to be left-wing and to support the following: to put geographical limits on the redistribution of wealth, to defend fiscal privileges in the richest communities, to aspire to raise borders of sovereignty among citizens, to marginalize people by birth, by their mother tongue. Obstacles by birth are inadmissible. But why do they not accept economics and if they accept language barriers? Why do these last ones look good to you? You say that you are the party that fights most for equality, but you drop the 8-M banner and head to a table where you will negotiate that non-Catalan women who want to be civil servants in Catalonia have less opportunities than the men who speak Catalan in Catalonia. Why does this inequality suit you? Why? You look with beautified eyes as if it were a cultural and exotic phenomenon that try to give us a coup d'état. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is impossible, it is incompatible to let go of singing The International and to sit at that table, unless one belongs to the other international, to the nationalist international. Many workers from all over Spain went to work in Catalonia and made it rich and prosperous, some stayed. They all trusted that they would raise their country and generate wealth for Spain. They did not think that their effort and their work would be perverted in this way. Gentlemen of the PSOE, they often refer to the progressive majority of the investiture, to the majority of the left. I am not going to talk about the leftism of the PNV today, but what kind of left is that whose political action ends up preserving the same and raising borders against the other? How is a project designed to remove the rights contained in the Constitution in order to take precedence over the rights based on a postal code? There is no point in approving a vital minimum income and then putting one to work on inequality. You cover a ditch and, a few meters beyond, you dig a much deeper and more serious than the one you came to cover. Gentlemen of the PSOE, don't go to that table, don't claim anything fair. They read politicians who admire and quote a lot around here. Read Largo Caballero, read Azaña or read Prieto. Read what they said about those gentlemen there: Nationalism brings the betrayal eternally attached to its political action. [[pointing to the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV]] Because, don't be mistaken, you also want to be independent of yourselves. If you go to that table, you are not going to negotiate a territorial issue, gentlemen of the Socialist Party; if you go to that table, what you are going to do is perpetrate a class betrayal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u109	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a motion that starts with the premise that the dialogue table, the negotiations between the governments of Spain and Catalonia - he says - are not anchored in the current constitutional model. I have spent thirty long years dedicating myself to the world of law; studying it and teaching it, but, as in the last thirty and peak months all legal interpretations have changed, I have wanted to make sure, and reviewing the Constitution, by prohibition of dialogue, by prohibition of negotiations, nothing comes to me. I thought maybe I was legally wrong and went to the hemeroteca. And I have seen that, in a much more serious situation, such as the dialogue with a terrorist gang, which was ETA, which was killing, all the governments, since 1976, have sat down, have negotiated. The governments of the UCD have already done so, with Suárez and Calvo Sotelo, with Minister Rosón. It was done at the time of Felipe González and Barrionuevo - well, those applied another policy, which was with ETA speaking and with the LAGs acting -. He did it after Aznar; Zapatero did it; Rajoy was more of looking at things than talking, and his interior minister was more of talking to the archangels than not to people. But, of course, it turns out that everyone has spoken to terrorists who were killing, and we have heard repeatedly that without violence we can talk about everything, because we have heard it on one side and on the other and with Governments on the other side, and it turns out that there is now a peaceful movement, that is not violent, that has not killed anyone, that is trying to speak, and you are shouting in the sky. And I say well when I say in heaven, because when you presented this motion - and today you have repeated it, surprisingly - they said - and today you have said - it is a political conflict. But no, we know it's not. For a few days now we know - Minister Fernández Díaz has revealed, because to him the Pope has revealed - that this is not a political conflict: it is the devil, who wants to break Spain! If that is so, if this is not a political conflict, you will understand that then we, poor mortal sinners, have little room for manoeuvre. That said, however, do not worry too much about the dialogue table, that no one believes it. It is not believed by the Government of the PSOE, which accepted it as a requirement to obtain the investiture and which, after having maintained it, has not had the slightest burgeoning to agree with Citizens to stop that negotiating table. Nor are its proponents, who are asking simply to reactivate themselves, to make some symbolic gesture in view of the upcoming Catalan elections. And neither do we believe that others, who think that they will not have, unfortunately, any journey but that we think that we must be there, that we must always be at the table of dialogue and never get up, because we know that the debate is not going to reside in Spain; the debate, the solution, is going to come from the international sphere, and therefore from the Catalan side we must always be sitting at the table. Do not worry, therefore, about the dialogue table. And, as you like to say - I am finishing, Madam President - to your spokesman, that I have heard on some occasion the quote from Dante's Divine Comedy: Leave all hope, leave all hope, because Catalonia will be independent. Catalonia will soon be independent, but not by the dialogue table, of course; nor do I think that because it is driven by diabolical or angelic forces; it will be independent by the determination of the Catalans who are, we will be, every day, many more, thanks, among other things, to their intransigence, which determines that every day we are more convinced. We will therefore vote against your motion, of course, but we thank you for giving us the opportunity to express these ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u111	Thank you, Mr. Alonso-Cuevillas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. Gil. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Let's make it quick and easy, because we get a little tired. I have taken this, your motion, as it is, I have brought no speech; what I am going to do is try to dissect some of the things you bring in this motion - summer song. I say it for bad, repetitive and because it always comes back. It seems that you have only two topics in the summer: Gibraltar and the dialogue between the Generalitat and the Government of Spain. Mrs. Uriarte, just two priors. You mentioned that we were a political minority; well, with all due respect to political minorities, the truth is that the political minority in Catalonia is you, who have these Members, four. [[Raise left hand and show four fingers]] For something it will be. Then he says that the expression "prisoners and political preys" is inconceivable and that it is invented. Amnesty International says that, is that Amnesty International says that. I think it will cost you a lot in the future to defend according to what things. But let's go a little into the details of this The People's Parliamentary Group in Congress presents the following motion resulting from urgent questioning on the impact of the meeting of the table between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generality. [[shows a paper]] Impact, like a meteorite or a tsunami. General. Where is that Aznar thing 'I speak Catalan in intimacy'? You are copying to VOX; in the end people will end up voting to VOX and not to you if you copy that rather chunga naphthaline. We're still in the explanatory statement. The call, according to the communiqué issued, bilateral dialogue table agreed to hold monthly meetings in the future with the aim of reaching agreements to be formulated within the framework of legal certainty. [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] Agreements: heresy, heresy! In politics today for the People's Party it is heresy to reach agreements. So, what's the policy going on, what's it going on? If we are not able to reach agreements, why do we serve; why do we serve? And I am going to tell you something else, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, between 70 and 80% of the population in Catalonia - and I do not say that, as I say, everyday people who are not suspected of being independenceists like El País or El Periódico de Catalunya - are in favour of a dialogue solution to the political conflict in Catalonia. That, by force, includes your voters, by force, who know perfectly well that you cannot imprison everyone; you cannot imprison everyone. But we continue: contrary to what is said, the meeting held does not find any anchor in the current constitutional model. A meeting has no constitutional anchor! I hope that not all political meetings must have a constitutional anchor and, above all, I hope that there is no Constitution that does not recognize the political meeting, because, then, a small Constitution! We're on. Only the whole of the Spanish people can decide on matters which directly affect the principle of equality - you speak of equality - enshrined in our legal system; any other approach is to be outside the law. I am very much in favour of innovation, very much in favour, in all areas of life, in all, but it would be strange if for the first time in history a referendum of self-determination would vote for a territory outside the territory affected by that right of self-determination; that is: in London what was voted in the referendum of Scotland? It is legally unsustainable. I go on to say that the government has powers that it does not have. Doesn't the government have any powers? Then why are they voting for him? A government, a party and parties that won elections under the promise that dialogue would triumph over barbarism have no competence? Rare. And the worst - I finish, Madam President - is this political surrender to convicted criminals. Before convicted criminals! Pere Aragonès is a convicted felon? Is Marta Vilalta a convicted felon? Peter Sanchez is a convicted felon? Is Carmen Calvo a convicted felon? But what barbarity is that? Oh, yeah? [[Rumors]] Are they?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u113	Mr. Rufián, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u114	I'm done. You ask six things: the first, no; the second, no; the third, no; the fourth, no; the fifth, no, and the sixth, no. The danger to democracy is you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u115	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Gil. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor. Mr Asens LLODRÁ: President. The ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party should be congratulated: before the dialogue table has been convened, in full descalation and when the whole State is not yet in phase 3, we are once again struck by the scarecrow of the process. It seems that now that the case against the 8-M has been closed, the classics are back. The same writers of 'The guilt of the 11-M is of ETA and not of the jihadists' and 'The guilt of the pandemic is of the feminists', now bring us the hit of last season: 'Spain breaks'. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, that if you spent half the time you spent on these extravagant and conspirative theories governing, we would not have had to have attended the disaster of their management in the residences of the Community of Madrid. Now that we know that there were first and second patients depending on whether they had private insurance or not and now that we know that there were orders to reject certain patients, I think there is no scarecrow or flag that can hide that scandal. Today they bring us a motion in that context in which they oppose the dialogue table, and they do so for three reasons: the first, because they say it is outside the law, which is unconstitutional. Well, what are we doing here? We should be in court discussing that, because they've filed a complaint, I imagine. I know you don't, because you know that even your friendly judges in the Constitutional Court would laugh at you. How is it going to be unconstitutional for two democratic governments to feel like dialogue, when you - and it has been remembered before - even did with the terrorist band ETA? How will it be unconstitutional? I already know that you like that of preventive doctrine very much, and with it you led us to a war in Iraq, in case there were weapons of mass destruction. But, hey, wait for the deals. Nor have they met, there are no agreements yet, how can they talk about unconstitutionality and illegality? You know what's unconstitutional? His proposal for Catalonia, 155 indefinite. It is so unconstitutional that his friends from the Constitutional Court have had to recognize it. Imagine! That's unconstitutional. The second reason for your opposition is that you say you want that table, you want to promote a constituent process, I have pointed out. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, I wish, some of us would like it. But no, the goal is to unblock a political conflict - certainly, Mrs Uriarte, thank you for recognizing that there is a political conflict; this is the first time I have heard it from a Member of the People's Party on this occasion, to unblock a political conflict that has been in the process of almost a decade and that has made honest people in prison, people who in other countries, by the same facts, are free. Ladies and gentlemen, only from the most extreme sectarianism can one defend that sitting down to dialogue, as you have said, is treason and humiliation towards Spain. Sitting down to dialogue is necessary to solve problems and is a political obligation of any Democrat. The third and final hit that you put on the table is that you consider it an imposition on half the Catalans. They have already told you: the truth is that if the polls were read they would see that eight out of ten citizens in Catalonia are in favour of that table, the same ones who are in favour of the freedom of prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mrs Uriarte wondered why the independence movement is so strong in Catalonia, and the truth is that it is so strong thanks to you. Independence is not won by clubs with the courts; it is won in the ballot boxes with arguments, with alternatives, and its only arguments are jails and rattles. That is why independence with you has grown from 10% to 50% of support, because you, in territorial management, have done the same as in managing the 2008 crisis: a manual of everything that is not to be done in politics. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we have a historic opportunity to start building a lasting solution. Therefore, we have to ignore the insults and threats that come from the right-wing bench. We must be brave, because today's courage can be the solution of tomorrow and this solution needs to solve a fundamental problem that is not solved with a Covenant of the Majestic in the style of the old Convergence or the People's Party. There is a problem of substance, silence, legitimacy and recognition, and the citizens of Catalonia deserve not only a solution, but also to be able to vote for it. There is no solution without a pact, but there are no ballot boxes, either. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u116	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u117	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to explain one thing that has happened, because it is the demonstration of what is happening to the People's Party, and it is that its words highlight its facts. This is your request to withdraw the words 'political prisoners'. Journal of Sessions of February 22, 2012: The problem of prisoners needs to be addressed. Approaching all political prisoners to their families. The spokesman was Mikel Errekondo; the president was from the People's Party. And so I could continue to report all the times that have been quoted in this House and three presidents that I respect very much did not withdraw it. Having said that, I wanted to tell Mr. Garriga something else. You say there will be nothing left of Spain. Look, Mr Garriga, what we want is that there is nothing left of your Spain, Spain of franchising, Spain of homophobia, Spain of xenophobia, Spain of machism. [[Applauds]] We do not want anything left of that Spain, because there is a very diverse and very plural Spain and we want to end Francoism, homophobia, racism and machism. We don't want anything left of that. Spain survived Franco and will also have to make its way. Having said that, I enter into what I had prepared for this intervention and it was the proposal of the People's Party that was the product of an inquiry by Mrs Álvarez de Toledo, who, by the way, I see that she does not have much interest in the debate on the motion resulting from her inquiry, in which, you will recall, she complained that the Vice-President of the Government did not answer her. Today comes the debate on your motion, but where is Mrs Alvarez de Toledo? Is that the interest and concern you have for the truth? [[Applauds]] I no longer say Mr Casado, who has not been in the debate all day. No, I'm talking about Mrs. Alvarez de Toledo. That is the problem you have, that instead of coming here and recognizing what you did wrong, you try to repeat your mistakes, gentlemen of the PP. The problem is not what the socialists do; the problem is what you did not do. There is his great failure with the illegal referendum of October 2017. They said it wouldn't be done and it was done. They said there would be no ballot boxes and there would be. With you the consultation was made on November 9, 2014, with you the consultation was made on October 1, 2017 and with you Puigdemont fled. They failed and led us to the failure and greater territorial conflict that Spain has had since the adoption of the Constitution. That's your responsibility. Is that why they've erased every trace of that past? Where is Soraya Sáenz from Santamaría? Where is Jorge Fernández Díaz? Where is María Dolores de Cospedal? Where's Ana Mato, if they did so well? They've been wiped out because they're ashamed of that past. Lying requires memory and you have little, perhaps because you don't like how bad you did it. And you know the saying, gentlemen of the People's Group: a lot of noise and few nuts. That's why they make noise, because the hollow sounds more than full, and their politics are hollow and lying. They have gone from deferred payments to deferred lies and both are equally destructive. They come here and do bad literature, they are dedicated to accumulating words and lies, but they cannot change the facts. In her interpellation, Ms. Álvarez de Toledo cited Pujol's inauguration in 1984, accusing Raimon Obiols of not responding to the insults and attempts of aggression she suffered. Nor did Rubalcaba when his former spokesman and current senator, Rafael Hernando, tried to assault him. That day Raimon Obiols, like Rubalcaba, gave a lesson in courage and dignity. And do you know what the People's Party did that day, that day of 1984? He voted for Pujol next to the Republican Left. That day, Manuel Fraga and Heribert Barrera voted together, agreeing to elect Pujol as president. Convergència Democrática and Mr Pujol never lacked the support of the People's Party, Mr Fernández Díaz, nor did Arthur Mas lack it in 2011. I approve some budgets and you give me the mayor of Badalona for García Albiol; I give you TV3 and you give me Spanish Television. Just business, no feelings, no homelands. The brave thing is to defend dialogue; the cowardly thing is to impose silence, like the Law gags. Democracy is that those who think differently talk to each other. With the same hand that you have presented this motion, you allowed November 9th; with the same hand that you claim to defend the freedom to manifest in the midst of the pandemic, you passed the Law gag. The policy is not to accumulate hurtful words to destroy the government by taking advantage of the pain of the Spanish. But what is clear is that they do not provide any solution, they only seek conflict and confrontation. His screams are full of noise and fury and they only serve to keep you from hearing what you don't like. This is democracy for you. They want to privatize the Constitution, they want to appropriate our Constitution as if it were a few, and those few are you. They're a new Torquemada, filled with fatuous fire, who's been blaspheming. That dialogue that wants to destroy Spain, no matter how much you announce it...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u118	Mr. Zaragoza, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u119	Thank you very much. We build a democracy without hatred and fear of all Spaniards. The law is the condition and dialogue is the way, the way that our Constitution preserves, and that is the Constitution to which we all owe loyalty. Gentlemen of the right, as long as you go to the opposition you go up to the mountain. Get off the mountain, it'll be good for you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. Mrs Uriarte, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u121	Yes, we accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u122	All right. I therefore believe that the motion will be voted on with the amendment of the incorporated VOX Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u123	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on policies to be developed by the Government of Spain to promote [[Señor Quevedo ITURBE]] CONNECTIVENESS AND RECOVERY OF TOURISM IN CANADIANS. [[File number 173/000010]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u125	Motion for an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the policies to be developed by the Government of Spain to promote connectivity and the recovery of tourism in the Canary Islands. [[Mr. Quevedo Iturbe]] For the author group of the initiative, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. The other day, in the debate on the presentation of our inquiry on the need to develop specific policies to stimulate connectivity and recover the tourism sector in the Canary Islands, we had an essential foundation. All the territories of the Spanish State have their characteristics, their economic models and their singularities, and we recognize them; but, to the same extent, the Canary Islands have to put on the table that the dependence that the Canary Islands has and its economic model of tourism, in spite of which we would like to have a smaller dependence, has no comparison in the rest of the Spanish State. Tourism in the Canary Islands accounts for 35% of GDP, with an average of 11.7% in the Spanish State. This is a difference from triple. In the Canary Islands, tourism accounts for 40% of employment, while in the State as a whole it accounts for 12.8% of employment. Therefore, when we are considering that there is a singularity in the Canarian economic model, which also depends on a very unique form of tourism, we do not come to ask for pre-blessings or to propose graceful bonuses and not even to cry a little bit. We come to describe a different reality and therefore believe it deserves a different answer. We have made it clear that the public health pandemic, from a health point of view, has behaved better in the Canary Islands than in other territories. You know why? Because we were able to close the borders. That's one of the advantages of isolation. Do you know what the problem is now, in the second pandemic, in the social and economic pandemic? Now that what served us to save us from the health pandemic can create a social and economic drama in the Canary Islands of first order. We gave them the data the other day. If in the previous crisis, in the so-called great recession - which had nothing to do with this in its gravity, because this is a tourist zero - the Canary Islands reached 34.7% unemployment, which is a monstrous figure in relation to the rest of the Spanish state, we can now quietly move from 40%. When all the indicators say that in the whole of the Spanish state the figure could be - in red, large and capital letters - around 20%, I am sure you will understand that I have to come here to defend a land that lives from what lives and in which we can suffer a real social and economic fracture if we do not act. I'll tell you what. In 2009, in the great recession, the Canary Islands received about ten million tourists. On this occasion, if we reach five million all year long we can sing a song in our teeth. This means the joke of a fall in GDP of around 20%, which is monstrosity, and a loss of EUR 9 billion. If we now have more than 40% of the Canarian population with ERTE support, in special situations such as the self-employed or in pure and severe unemployment - more than 40% of the working population - then take into account the drama we are designing. Therefore, I have an obligation to come here to defend singularity not from the point of view of privilege, but from the point of view of survival. First, I have to thank for the support expressed to us by various groups in the House. I sincerely thank you for your support, even though these are things that do not have much to do with your territories. In the case of VOX, we have received a set of amendments and where the Canary Islands add you Balearics. Well, first of all, this means that you will never recognize that the Canary Islands has some singularities and, secondly, it seems to me a lack of respect for the Balearic Islands to be me adding the Balearic Islands to a motion made by New Canary Islands; it seems to me a lack of respect. I believe that the people of Balearic Islands are perfectly capable of designing their policy, as it is public and notorious, and we have not received any approach of any kind. I also have to tell you that the governments of the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands talk a lot. Therefore, add Balearics is fine, but if what is meant to be said is that the singularity of the Canary Islands is not recognized, they will already apologize, but we do not agree. I have to apologize to the citizens' representatives, their amendments have come to me late. With all due respect, I believe that the essence of what I have seen above is that they do not like this again that we recognize the singularity of a territory, as if we were posing the fracture of the State, which is not the case, and then we cannot agree, we cannot share it, because we are in diametrically opposed positions. I have to thank Mr Sebastián Ledesma, Member of the People's Group, for his work, with whom we have been talking for a while. He has tabled a set of amendments that show that he knows what he is talking about; a canary of the Port of the Cross is quite normal that he knows what he is talking about when we talk about tourism. I am trying to make this motion as simple as possible, because we are interested in it having the maximum level of support, and uniquely of the parties that make up the Government for operational reasons. I have proposed to you to transform your amendment to point 7 into an additional one, leaving it to the understanding that the deep meaning of many of your amendments, which I have not developed so much to promote consensus, do not differ at all from our approach. [[The Lord]] With regard to the Socialist Group, we have had Mr Hector and I long meetings here to exchange things. I believe that we can accept some transactions on the text that we have put forward, which does not distort the meaning of the question. This being the government party is important, Don Héctor, that is why we have loosened something more than we usually do. But one thing is clear, we insist that we must promote, at the origin of the countries issuing tourists to the Canary Islands, and I think it did the rest of the state, that the security condition of being free of coronavirus is an essential element to strengthen the demand for safe tourist destinations, such as the Canary Islands and much of the Spanish state. This is maintained, not a requirement, but let us trust that we work in that direction. Therefore, I am announcing to incorporate this additional amendment, to make the transactions that we have proposed, which in no way alter the text that we had tabled, and I am putting myself to it after the intervention has been completed. Thank you very much for the thirty-three seconds left, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u127	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Anyway, some call us president, others president, it's indistinct. In defence of the amendments put forward by your group, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u128	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating again here in this Chamber a new initiative on the Canarian tourism sector, a sector which in just one year has suffered the bankruptcy of its largest teleoperator, and also the absolute closure of its borders. An economy that, as the proposer has said, depends directly and indirectly on the tourism sector, accounting for 35% of regional gross domestic product and 40% of employment. The Thomas Cook crisis in October last year left a significant negative effect on the quality of the gross domestic product of 6.5% and it is expected that there will be an increase in unemployment of 10%. It is true that Canarias depends 100 percent on connectivity, as the motion says, as all tourists arrive by plane to the islands. At the time when all air connections were cancelled by the pandemic, the Canarian tourism sector was paralysed, and that is not the problem, because the whole country was paralysed, but the re-launching of the opening of the borders, which is going to penalize it and very much. Despite the painful measures, mobility restrictions have so far been shown to be the only weapon we have to fight against the virus, and so the Canary Islands did very well. However, the performance of the Government in recent weeks is incomprehensible. As improvised decisions continue to be made in Spain, such as opening the borders at a time and two hours later, our community partners are taking firm steps towards opening them. Uncertainty and mistrust continue to be created in Spain. Measures are beginning to take place in other countries. In addition, for a long time the Canarian tourism sector has relied too heavily on tourism packages, and we believe that it is time to expand that diversity in the tourism sector. Digitization, for example, could let us do it. But it is curious that the government still does not take a step forward and prefers to sacrifice our summer season and give it to other European countries with similar tourist offerings. The purpose of the motion is to deal only with the problem of the tourist sector of the Canary Islands, which we make our own, of course. We understand the specificities of the Canarian tourism sector, but we believe that the scope of this motion should go a little beyond the Canary Islands and include other regions, which, due to the importance of tourism in their economy, should also be a priority. This is no time to split. We believe that the Canary Islands needs this connectivity, but after the crisis of the COVID-19 it is time to look at the rest of the regions that have tourism as the basis of their economy. It is true that, given the ultraperipheral situation of the Canary Islands, the guarantee of stable, sufficient and competitive air connectivity is fundamental to its survival, and we understand it. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments, which I regret that they have not read, because at no time do we end up with the central idea that the Canary Islands has specific characteristics and needs specific measures, but that we have only wanted to add other regions. Right now we need the tourism sector to relive, to grow again and to be what it was. The Government has not yet launched the national tourism plan that it agreed with Citizens. As that plan arrives, it is time to help those regions through this motion. It seems that Thursday that tourist plan will be announced. Let us hope that it will be deep and include all the people we have wanted to join. The European Union has talked about opening up borders and urges Spain to open them as soon as possible, because we are losing the confidence of tourists. The tourism sector has also shown in the Reconstruction Committee that we must all be united, that we must help the hoteliers, that we must help the hoteliers, that we must help the small trade in the centres of cities and coastal areas and, of course, the trade and the canary hospitality sector. We need that plan to come into effect soon. Through this motion we thought that not only the Canary Islands could be included, but all the regions of Spain that have tourism in our country as a fundamental and strategic sector. We will be pleased to comment with the Joint Group on the amendments tabled. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u129	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Quevedo, I congratulate you on this initiative, on your concern for the main tourist sector of our land. It's a concern we share. So much so, that since the Parliamentary Group VOX we have presented a non-legislative proposal to promote the air connectivity of the Canary Islands and the rest of the extrapenisular territories in April, that is, more than a month and a half ago. You will agree with me, Mr Quevedo, that if what we want is to promote the recovery of the tourism sector, given that our main markets for tourists are Germany and the United Kingdom, time is a key factor, especially because of the advance with which they make the reservations. The measures we were proposing over a month and a half ago were very similar to those you are proposing today; but from the VOX Parliamentary Group we intend to promote the territorial cohesion of Spain, not just the future of the tourism sector, to which my family has been linked for three generations. They have been decades of hard work and we are proud of the fruits of this work, despite the fact that one of the communist ministers of the government of President Sánchez considers it a sector of low added value. I am obliged to note that such a consideration can only come from those who do not know the excellent work of the Spanish tourism sector, who have placed us as a world leader or perhaps from those who do not fully know the value of the work. [[Applauds]] Mr. Quevedo, the love and concern we share for our country girl, as Galdós called her, cannot prevent us from worrying about the rest of our compatriots. It is logical and human that we feel interest and concern for our fellow citizens, but, Mr Quevedo, we are national deputies, and the term national does not refer to a hypothetical and non-existent canarian nation, but to the Spanish nation, which our Constitution proclaims as unique and indivisible in its second article. [[One Member: Very well.-Applause.]] Mr Quevedo, being your motion a good thing, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we believe that you should not prevent anything better. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to your motion which improves and magnifies it. You said that the weight of tourism in the Canary Islands is not comparable to the rest of Spain. We invite you to extend the scope of your motion to the Balearic Islands, which have the same conditions, so that the proposed measures can be implemented. It has a strong influence on the tourism sector, almost in the same terms as in the Canary Islands, both in terms of the contribution of the gross domestic product and of employment, and its issuing countries are also similar, mainly Germany and the United Kingdom, which also share with us the fragmentation of the territory on islands, making air connectivity essential. You have just said, Mr Quevedo, that it is a lack of respect for Balearics to propose that your motion extend its scope to Balearics. Perhaps, Mr Quevedo, you should reconsider whether it would be a real disrespect not to accept an amendment and to deprive, in this seat of national sovereignty, the same solutions to those involved in the same problems. [[One Member: Very well.-Applause.]] As for the airport charges in paragraphs 4 and 5 of your motion, I think they deserve a specific debate because they pose a problem for the Spanish tax system. One of the general principles of our tax law is economic capacity, and airport charges for the movement of extra-penisular territories are not in line with that principle. In the extra-penisular territories, air travel is not the result of an economic capacity that allows access to a better means of transport to which it has the greatest economic capacity, but is the only viable option for passenger transport. Therefore, Mr Quevedo, I trust that you will not support or accept the amendment proposed to you by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, in which you seek those reductions that you are asking for... I don't know if you listen to me, Mr Quevedo... I believe that this is one of the most fundamental parts of your motion, because points 4 and 5 are very effective for the recovery of tourism. Rates must be reduced, and the PSOE approach is to sweeten, toast to the sun and no longer refer to reduction. Then I encourage you to be brave with your own motion and not accept that amendment which seeks to empty it of content. And I finish, Mr. Quevedo, with a quote that our illustrious countryman Benito Pérez Galdós pronounced right here in Madrid on December 9, 1900, addressing some countrymen who had come to pay tribute to him for the publication of a book: You have seen that the time has come to revive in our souls the love of the country girl to light the love of the great. In us lives and the Spanish soul will always live. We, the most distant, are the closest in the heart of the homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u131	Thank you. Mr Ledesma Martín has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is my first speech to this Congress, so I am pleased to be able to address all of you. As a canary, when tourism accounts for more than 35% of our GDP and 40% of employment, when the crisis of the COVID-19 has led us to a tourist zero, when the State and the Government of the Canary Islands have not presented themselves with a single measure sufficient to reactivate the tourism sector, nobody escapes that the Canary Islands will be the autonomous community most affected by this misfortune. Consequently, the cataclysm that awaits us is more than obvious. From the People's Parliamentary Group we demand unique measures to get the archipelago out of the economic well to which the crisis has led us, and which are necessary to reactivate as soon as possible the main productive sector of the canary economy, and this can only be done with a real plan of social and economic reactivation for the Canary Islands, being essential to articulate and promote tools that dampen the fall caused by the crisis of the coronavirus. However, today we have a huge concern about the poor management of the Social-Communist Government by improvising with continuous contradictory messages. To cite just one example, ten days ago the Minister of Tourism said that the borders would be opened on 21 June and at a few hours there would be a rectification from Moncloa itself and the opposite would be announced. Later, last Sunday, the president announced again that yes, disconcerting the whole sector and adding more distrust. Look, tourism needs planning, security and prestige to prevent customers from changing their destination preferences, because in this sector there is nothing insured for life. Uncertainty kills tourism. Therefore, in our view this initiative is fundamental, and I would like to thank Mr Quevedo for his reference to the work we have done through the various amendments tabled to the motion. We share the motion one hundred per cent, these are measures that we have already requested in a GNP that this parliamentary air connectivity group has tabled, but in our view, what the sector is demanding is fundamental, for example, an important issue for us, such as the extension of ERTE beyond 30 June. Well, now we've heard they're going to arrive until October 31st. We are going to remain faithful in demanding that for the good of all, for the good of the business fabric, but especially for all workers living in the tourism sector, they can be extended until at least the end of the year. Secondly, we need to put all the resources and technical means at our disposal to ensure that visitors travelling to the islands do so under optimal health security conditions, without being exposed to risk situations. The Canary Islands tourism brand, on which 40% of the Canarian workers depend, everything must be said, despite having experienced, as you have said, Mr Quevedo, a very favourable development because it is islands, because of our geographical situation, we cannot risk it, we cannot open up freely without having a series of health protocols to protect ourselves, to protect our main economic source. The PP's bet remains that of carrying out massive tests to the traffic, passengers and crews in origin or in destination, we don't care, agree; these are the improvisations that we have also denounced, both by the Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands. Agree, that's what the sector is asking. Look, without health there is no tourism possible. Thirdly, I suppose there will be some consensus among those present that the points I have just mentioned must be accompanied by an investment effort by the Spanish tourist administration. Canarias is an ultra-peripheral region that by its own condition is part of its disadvantaged situation, and the sensitivity of Madrid is decisive in trying to go back to the exit box, when? The sooner. That is why, in another of the amendments that we are presenting to the Government of Spain, with the help of the autonomous and local authorities, we put forward the adoption of a tourism promotion and communication plan, which is preferably aimed at our main markets, with a view to enhancing the destinations of the entire archipelago. We also talk about the ICO line, for us fundamental.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u133	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u134	I'm done, Mr. President. The ICO line for us is fundamental and, of course, the incentives you have expressed in your motion from the airport point of view. I finish, but there are several issues that I have not mentioned, such as the situation of tourism entrepreneurs, who are having a very bad time with the debts of the tour operators, which is a negotiation that should be undertaken by the Government of Spain and is not doing so, in order to try to make those 200 million euros that are due...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u135	Mr. Ledesma, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u136	I'm done. We will support them even if we do not trust that this Government can comply, and we will be here to claim it. It is also clear the passivity of the President of the Government of the Canary Islands, of which you are also a member, which is clear and obvious and is prejudicial to us. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u137	Mr Gómez Hernández has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Mr Quevedo, from the Socialist Group, we would like to thank you for your intention, your purpose, your will and your concern mainly for the tourism sector in the Canary Islands. We are concerned about some of the interventions that have been made here today, in this rostrum, especially this last one, which directly attacks the Government of the Canary Islands and the Government of Spain, saying that they do not trust each other, but that the People's Party has not been concerned either in the Canary Islands to raise a proposal, already talking about territorial criteria. [[Mr. Ledesma Martín makes negative gestures]] Yeah, well, that way; that way. You, who were the Director General of Tourist Infrastructure in the Canary Islands, know perfectly well the reality, Mr Ledesma, do not demagogue in this rostrum. Let us be aware of the reality of the sector and that the tourism sector does not recover as well as so, that we depend on the issuing markets and you know it well; be responsible, go up to this rostrum and speak carefully and strictly, which is what is needed. The tourism sector needs security, security in administrations, of course, within a joint dialogue in the Schengen area and also within the framework of the European Union, but we do depend on issuing markets. Of course there is a commitment from the Government of Spain and the Government of the Canary Islands, they are talking, they are opening up ways to establish safe corridors, and that the Canary Islands can recover. For the Canary Islands, tourism represents a lot, a lot more than the indicators in terms of GDP representation say, a lot more, because the sectors hang from the main industry of that autonomous community. And the Government of Spain will present this week a plan of impulse by dialogue with the private initiative, with the business fabric, within the framework of the social dialogue, and it is not only a question of tourism promotion, of improving tourist infrastructures. By the way, Canarias is the only community with a Tourist Infrastructure Plan. The nationalist parties in the Canary Islands are well aware of what has been done to achieve this Tourism Infrastructure Plan in the last few years for the Canary Islands. We live Thomas Cook's adverse reality, with a specific shock plan to counter Thomas Cook's situation. Has there not been any sensitivity from the Government of Spain? Because you say so. Of course it is, and they have recognized it from the tourism business sector. This has been done, not just by this spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the sector says. Obviously there are aspects to improve, obviously there are many steps to take, obviously this is our obligation also since the Congress of Deputies. Flexible measures are required, because we do not know what the evolution of the sector will be, we do not know how the pandemic will evolve. Therefore, market opening, security measures cannot be rigid... Of course, we are also committed to security, but it is not entirely and exclusively up to Spain or this Government. We depend on a common agreement within the framework of the European Union, beyond that, in the Schengen area, we are aware of that. From there we are also aware of the competences that are transferred in the field of tourism to the autonomous communities. Even so, from the Spanish government we encourage the autonomous communities to lead this process that is not easy. Mr Quevedo, you have given data and made an accurate and thorough diagnosis of the reality in the Canary Islands of the tourism sector. I thank you for the sensitivity and flexibility you have had in responding to our proposals, our commitment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government of Spain. We will comply, as the Government of the Canary Islands is fulfilling, and we will not maintain a doubting attitude towards the achievements in this sector. At the moment, the reality is being negotiated as to how the ERTE will come out, within the framework of social dialogue, as it has to be. I know that you are very concerned about this and in that sense there is an absolute commitment. Here there are parliamentary groups who say: you doubt the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you do not trust the government. For it is this government that is facing the challenge with courage, dialogue at the front and taking on its responsibility, in the face of other challenges that the People's Party Government had, with crisis - yes, yes, you know it - of turopers such as the bankruptcy of Monarch, where there was not a single action by the People's Party Government, and they cannot say otherwise because it did. [[Mr. Ledesma Martín makes negative gestures]] In any case, it speaks of a strong strategy in terms of connectivity, social protection, tourism as a cross-cutting policy. I want to say something here. This Government regards tourism as an asset and a major industry in our economic activity. That no one has any doubts about this consideration, and the Ministry of Tourism is working to achieve all the objectives. This week, as I mentioned earlier, a plan will be presented covering all areas. Everything is better, but in that sense it spoke of flexibility, and we are willing to pick up everything that incorporates us in this presentation of the plan. We are as ambitious as possible, but we know that it is a zigzag reality that we have to face with absolute flexibility. Therefore, Mr Quevedo, you will count on our support, with our commitment to this initiative, and we will continue to work not only with this motion, but constantly, for the tourism industry in the Canary Islands and throughout the country to remain a leader. Let us not forget that Spain is the most competitive country in the world from the point of view of tourism, the second in number of tourists, behind France, and the second in spending on destination, behind the United States. Therefore, we are a country at the forefront of public management as well. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u139	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] At the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u140	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Go ahead and support the motion. It is true that the great economic dependence of the Canary Islands on tourism has demonstrated the important vulnerability of this ultraperipheral community to the effects of the COVID pandemic. In the Canary Islands, tourism accounts for 35% of gross domestic product and over 40% of employment, which is above the state average. To this we must add that connectivity in the international area, which contributes 85% of visitors, is not beginning to recover, at least, until November, and has already stopped since March. In addition, we find a scenario in which tourism demand will change qualitatively with new criteria in the purchase decision, which will lead to an analysis and review of offers and services. Prior to the COVID, a trend towards more responsible tourism was already seen; the post-pandemic scenario may accelerate it by regulating public administrations and pressure from demand. The decisions taken in the field of public administration and management in the following months will reconfigure the structure of supply conditions and demand expectations and therefore, as I said, neither group will support the motion put forward by Mr Quevedo of New Canarias, who proposes a specific plan to boost tourism for the Canary Islands because it is a sector with greater weight in its economy, in coordination with other public, local and island administrations on the islands, economic agents and social actors involved. In this regard, it calls for a canary connectivity plan and tourism recovery with different measures, such as discounting airport passenger charges on inter-island routes, extending aid to workers and businesses to a viable revival of the tourism sector, a differentiated international communication campaign and measures to ensure the safety of visitors, workers and residents. In short, it is a strategy with concrete measures that, we understand, will enable us to start working on the recovery of the economy with total certainty. That is why I say again that we will support the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u141	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u142	Thank you, President. Survive an entire year with a month's income, that's the scenario facing the entire Canary Islands. According to the Canary Islands Institute of Statistics, all 2020 will reach the Canary Islands, in the most optimistic of the scenarios, the same tourists who arrived in any month of 2019. The fall in GDP will be 20%. For us to get an idea, in the previous crisis, in 2008, the fall was 4.8 in the Canary Islands and will now fall by 20%. The virus undresses us in front of the mirror; our productive sector has typically colonial characteristics: monoculture, with all the eggs in the same basket, the tourist; eggs that are also enjoyed outside. Out of every 140 euros spent by a tourist a day in the Canary Islands, more than 100 euros fly by foreign hands to foreign elites: all-inclusive tourism, etc. And there's a huge dependence on the outside for everything. Something as canary as the gophid we consume we do with cereal brought from the outside. In the land of the sun, alienation, volcanoes and Atlantic, we have not yet reached 20% of renewable energy production. We assume low taxation and low wages to attract investment; that is, we offer our land to pay few taxes and pay poor wages and then we are surprised that we lead the rankings of poverty, exclusion and the worst public services in the country. The responsibility for this situation is evident, it is enough to see who has ruled these islands for the past thirty years, with Coalition Canaria always the head, of course. And all of a sudden, the pandemic came and evidenced the fragility of a model that was already unsustainable when it 'functioned': destruction of the environment, capital flight, two-digit structural unemployment and nearly eight hundred thousand canaries and canaries at risk of exclusion and poverty; almost eight hundred thousand and we are only two million. See that the social movements, the local productive fabric and a very important part of the academic world have been warning you of time. Look, we've been called crazy a million times to say it here in parliamentary office. They criticized us when we voted against the reform of the REF Statute for leaving out precisely all the initiatives and amendments that allowed for a change in the productive model on the islands. Today, while we are here, two activists rose up on the cranes of the works in a hotel that does not comply with the law on one of the few virgin beaches left in Tenerife, on the beach of La Tejita, in El Médano, in the south of the island. One more nut turn, a few cranes that should never have worked; one more nut turn to a pick and cement model that has proved many times that it doesn't work. It is unacceptable that there are people in the social movement who have to play, literally, the physical to enforce the law. These works do not comply with the 100-metre protection servitude of the coast and are reported to the courts in three different ways. From here we demand the competent administrations to act without excuse, and they must do so already by paralysing the works. Now the time has come, no one can look elsewhere: either we change the model or many thousands of canaries and canaries will have to take the suitcase. There's no other option. Connectivity, of course. We will declare a public service obligation and set maximum prices for trips between the Canary Islands and the Peninsula, and so the airlines will not be supplied, they will not fill their accounts with the money of our taxes. In addition, we will offer affordable prices to peninsular tourism and guarantee the right of the canaries and canaries that have had to go outside to win the chickpeas. We have to value public care and services if not, we will not have learned anything from this pandemic: health, education, research, social services. Convert invisible jobs into jobs once and for all that are recognized, remunerated and have rights. What a better time than now to rehabilitate and modernize the hotel plant to make it more energy efficient, to adapt it to renewables and to improve the quality of the tourist destination. Also, why don't we take the digitalization and robotics train? No complexes, public-private collaboration in the software industry, video games, data management, intelligent destinations. Why not, if we have enough talent, we have infrastructure and we have legal certainty? The primary sector, of course. No one will ever again use the term bad or the term bad to refer contemptively to another person, because we know well how important it is when things get ugly a well-planted farm: food sovereignty on the islands, local production and consumption and modifications to import aid. For all this we have plenty of resources, we only need to change the tax system on the islands and those who have the most pay. In short, there is a way out. We can change the model and generate thousands of high-quality jobs, but if cowardice, inertia or the safeguarding of certain particular interests prevail, the Canary Islands will once again be condemned in its history, unfortunately, to insular misery and emigration. But do you know what the problem is? That nowadays maybe there's no place to go with the suitcase. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo, do you accept any of the amendments tabled, in addition to those you have already announced?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u144	I'm going to formulate a transactional according to what I've talked to the groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u145	All right, all right. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda after finalizing the health emergence of the COVID-19. [[LORD MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA]] [[File number 173/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u146	We continue with the motion following the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the railway policy of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda after the end of the health emergency of COVID-19. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. The railway policy was the object of the inquiry that I raised at the plenary session last week to the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda and, through this motion, I would like to ask the House for its support for the major emergencies both in Asturias and in the north-west of Spain, stressing two main messages. The first is that the Government must apply in its railway policy criteria of equity and equality between Spaniards who avoid territorial discrimination. For this reason, he has to explain to the Gijonese and the Asturians why in the rest of the Spanish cities, such as Oviedo or more recently Bilbao, Minister Ábalos maintains the agreement of the new railway station in Abando, adjacent to the current one, and in Gijón is maneuvering to fail to comply with the agreement of 2019, last year, consensual, to move it away from the outside of the city and thus favor the speculation of the soil and the denaturization of Zalia. For the same reason, regarding the incorporation of Asturias into the Spanish high-speed network and the finalization of the variant of Pajares - as we have been defending since the implementation of the Transport Infrastructure Plan 2000-2010-, I repeat that we do not accept Spain of two speeds, we do not accept autonomous communities of first and second, we do not, in short, accept that part of Spain advances in the 21st century while another part remains anchored to the 20th century. The second of the main messages is that the incommunicado of Asturias by land, sea and air is one of the basic factors that puts it at the tail of Spain in rates of population increase, economic growth, job creation, tourism development and industry. Hence the importance of recovering the very long lost time in the exploitation of huge investments already implemented so that social profitability is a reality as soon as possible and we have railway means of transport, both of travellers and of goods, that modernise the train, facilitate competitiveness and allow the creation of employment, our high priority. Ladies and gentlemen, on eight points the motion portrays the railway reality that I described last week and the most peremptory needs to urge the Government, firstly, to accord the same priority to the Atlantic corridor as that granted to other rail corridors so that the railway connection of the cities and ports of the Atlantic and Cantabrian facades with the interior of Spain and with Europe, both for the transport of passengers and for the transport of goods, is incorporated into the Trans-European Transport Network under identical conditions as the other rail corridors. Secondly, to incorporate the railway line of Asturias and its three major towns - Oviedo, Gijón and Avilés - to the Spanish high speed network with the same characteristics of technology and weather conditions as the rest of the AVE corridors already in service; that is, that it allows to communicate Madrid and Oviedo - the capital of Spain and the capital of Asturias - in less than two and a half hours, completing for this purpose the commissioning of the variant of Pajares, according to the original project on platform of double way of European width or standard. Thirdly, to provide the ports of El Musel and Avilés with standard European wide rail access, just like other Spanish ports of general State interest, to ensure their competitiveness as an essential factor for job creation. Fourthly, ratify the agreement signed in 2019 for the integration of the railway in Gijón, maintaining the location of the intermodal station in the fields near the Railway Museum and not in the already known location of Moreda, in order not to continue discriminating against Gijón regarding other cities; see what the ministry wants to do in Bilbao, as I pointed out before, with the future station in the very center of the city. That is what we want for the main population of Asturias. Fifth, urgently and without delay put in service the Gijón metrotrain, with the tunnel completed twelve years ago and its intermediate stations already built, with total independence of future studies, projects and works for its extension from Viesques to Cabueñes. Sixth, to implement the Plan of Neighbourhoods 2017-2022, agreed in 2017 by the Governments of Spain and the Principality, one of the People's Party and one of the Socialist Party, and supported by trade union and business organizations, as well as by civil society and the municipalities of the most representative populations. As my time concludes, I will point out that the motion also calls for ministerial attention to the Langreo underground. And finally, at one last point, the motion urges the government to develop the protocols for the integration of the railway and the construction of the northern round of Avilés, signed in that city in 2018 by the three administrations. By adopting this motion the Congress would give the Government a clear and precise orientation so that the railway is also in Asturias the modern and sustainable instrument by which the European Union is unequivocally committed. If you are so kind, Mr President, and in response to the request of several speakers, I would ask you to vote on this motion by points, separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u148	All right. Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Then, in defence of the amendments put forward by its groups, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place. Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u149	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Another week I dedicate my first words of this plenary session to the memory of all the Spaniards who have died victims of the pandemic and send a loving embrace, on my behalf and on behalf of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, to all their relatives and relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, the Principality of Asturias has held the last positions in the indices of economic growth and population development for decades, which has resulted in a loss of competitiveness and has placed Asturias above even Japan in terms of population ageing. With this background and focusing on infrastructure, we can say that the Principality of Asturias has a number of disadvantages with respect to the rest of Spain that prevent it from recovering positions: a shrinking demographic that barely exceeds the million inhabitants, a complicated orography that limits connectivity, an economic and endemic employment crisis, an industrial crisis that has emptied this autonomous community from economic activity, an incomprehensible underutilisation of the European financing routes and the precedent of the waste of mining funds. Within this framework, the infrastructure adapts perfectly to the general focus, which is a very complicated external connectivity, to the point that there are those who place this isolation of Asturias as one of the keys to the low incidence of the pandemic in the region, and an internal connectivity very focused on the private vehicle, with a railway network close to the ruin. Drawing this general context, I begin to detail what we think of each of the points of your motion. With regard to the Atlantic Corridor, during the last three legislatures we have presented a number of initiatives to give a real boost to these infrastructures so necessary for the territorial vertebration of Spain and connectivity with the rest of Europe, without which our competitiveness and that of Asturias are clearly damaged. We have carried it on the agenda of the autonomous elections, we have defended it in this House on several occasions and also in Europe our fellow MEP José Ramón Bauzá. Our commitment is maximal and we therefore hope that they will take on board our improvement amendment on this point. On the AVE to Asturias, we are again faced with the same problem that stalks all the critical infrastructures of our country, which is politicization. Do you know what is the most remarkable of the variant of Birds? That's sixteen years late. Look, while you guys are fighting over the kind of track, we've had a project that makes it possible to connect with the center of the peninsula. We cannot create new difficulties and delays when there is already a date and compromise on the opening of this variant; let us let the technicians work and let us leave these debates for those who know about the technical specifications that a project like this has to count on. On the ports of Gijón and Avilés, in our electoral program we were already looking to empower these ports as a way out of Spanish and European goods to the rest of the world. Again we refer to the recommendation of the technicians because it is not an issue that should be resolved by the politicians; we have technical professionals who, fortunately, decide on these aspects which, after all, are technical criteria and do not decide them for party interests. On the road map of Gijón, all political forces signed before the local elections an agreement for the development of this plan. The Mayor of Gijón and the Socialist Party are in favour of the change of station in Moreda, but they must offer certainties backed by technical reports and also unequivocal political commitments. They have to make sure that if the station is changed this will not lead to further delays or delays. Finally, we want to broaden the territorial scope of the motion to include one of the oldest claims in the Oviedo Council, such as the execution of a pedestrian walkway between the railway and bus stations and with respect to which the administrations involved have been giving long years and without wanting to take over. Almost in the same place there is another one of the actions pending execution, although in a more advanced state, which is the processing of the expansion of the passage under the bridge of Nicolás Soria. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a series of amendments aimed at improving the motion in the interest of the Asturians and the equality of all Spaniards over Byzantine debates, party interests or actions of politicians acting as if Asturias were their heritage. Accept them because these improvements are worth it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u150	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to extend our condolences to all the victims of COVID-19 and to all their families. Ladies and gentlemen, the railway infrastructure in Asturias is on the verge of suffocation, and that is not what I am saying, but what the Member of Podemos herself said during the campaign in November 2019. It is curious because they say this during the campaign and then, as soon as they reach a coalition government, they forget everything they said during the campaign, and this forgetfulness is the general focus of the railway infrastructure in Asturias. We are the eternal forgotten. The question is quite clear: they have forgotten about the AVE in Asturias, a project that was proposed in 2003 and which is almost twenty years late. They have forgotten a station in Gijón that left the centre on a provisional basis and that now they want to take it on a definitive basis even further. In the period since the station left the center of Gijón has lost approximately 70% of the travelers it had. What's gonna happen when they take her to Moreda's workshops? You'll lose the rest of the travelers. But, fundamentally, you too forget that subway tunnel that is already finished, that there is only one residual investment left to put it into operation. Just finish it and start making a profit on it as soon as possible, please. You too forget that Atlantic corridor that would connect all the ports of the Cantabrian and Atlantic giving you the breath you need. It seems that you would like to leave the infrastructure in Asturias to die for pure abandonment. And Asturias is sad, but it's not the only one. You, your Ministry of Transportation, have forgotten Badajoz. What about those rail connections to Badajoz? You've even forgotten about the so-called Mediterranean arch, which you yourself said was a priority. Well, it's about seven years late. Forgetfulness is the key to infrastructure. And let's go to another question, because you will say that if we have to spend more, we have to spend less. No, the key is to spend better. The AIReF itself said that in 2017 approximately EUR 15 billion in grants, which cannot be traced, have been spent - wasted - whose aims have not been met or were not clear. Well, 15 billion. According to Seopan, an association formed by experts in the construction of infrastructures, the maximum investment that would be required for the railway infrastructure in Spain to be at its optimum level would be EUR 45 billion, that is to say, with what you have wasted on grants, 30% of the amount needed to put Spain's railway infrastructure at its best. The question is logical, since the minister of the branch, the minister of Transport, has been very busy carrying suitcases in Barajas of fugitives from international justice, suitcases, by the way, of unknown content. [[Applauds]] We're waiting to see if they're finally telling us what these bags contained. In addition, officials of the Ministry of Transport will probably have already found personal injuries in the ministry that will not let them work as efficiently as they would like. In particular, I am thinking of those general directions created ad hoc for personal friends of the president of the government nothing more and nothing less, that councilman appointed from bodyguards of the minister of transports - surrealist situation - or even that director of Renfe appointed in July last year - surrealist also -, expressive condemned for the question of the black cards, of course with the socialist card, because there are also socialists among the prisoners. As I was saying, an expressioniario placed directly in a direction of Renfe. Yes, the minister has been busy, yes, he has been, and often he has a team to work on the infrastructure of Asturias. That is why we ask the minister to please keep the promises he made to Asturias. Confess, please, all these obscurantisms and trichinets that hide us and resign. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u152	Thank you. Mr García Morís has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start by referring to the representative of Citizens, Mrs Muñoz, who said here that it was the orography that put a stop to the incidence of the COVID crisis in Asturias. I wanted to tell you that what has put a stop to the COVID crisis in Asturias has been our excellent health system, our excellent professionals and the management of the Socialist Government of Asturias. [[applause]] If you want, we can compare management with the Madrid Government, which you are part of. Mr Martínez Oblanca, despite the black image that Asturias intends to transfer to plenary every week, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the unprecedented effort that the Government of Spain is making to modernise the infrastructure and railway services of Asturias. In two years of Pedro Sánchez's government, more than 300 million euros have been tendered, more than 257 million investments have been executed and more than 26 million investments have been made in infrastructure under the Neighbourhood Plan compared to less than four in the previous Executive. I think the data in this regard is clear. With regard to the point on the prioritization of the Atlantic Corridor and its likeness to other Spanish Corridors, no one more interested than the Socialist Party in defending and empowering in the same terms the two railway corridors, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic, and this with the inclusion of the branches of the north-west Spanish. From Asturias with much more reason, since from there we move the fourth part of the railway goods of Spain and we have the port of El Musel, the largest ferry traffic of the country, whose enlargement, by the way, was very criticized by you, by the Asturian right. As far as high speed is concerned, as the minister explained last week, Asturias will have services comparable in terms of services, in time and in all those of the major Spanish and European cities. This is progressing as never before, and you know it, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. We are in the final straight of the arrival of high speed to Asturias through the variant of Pajares and it is necessary that the infrastructures respond to both social and economic needs, both the transport of passengers and the transport of goods. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the tunnels have mixed width with triple wire and Iberian width and an exchanger in Campomanes, to reach the main cities of the metropolitan area of Asturias through our conventional route with the improvement of its current route. Therefore, from realism, from the technical criteria and the optimization of resources, Asturias will connect with the plateau through the variant, both at the level of travellers and goods, in times fully competitive and comparable to the rest of the State. Also, in relation to the networks managed by the ports of Avilés and Gijón, both with Iberian width and metric width, a decision has been made again with technical criteria to avoid leaving isolated the ports of Asturian - because that is what you intend, leaving isolated the ports of Asturian - that has no impact of travel, that does not mortgage the future and that allows to have European financing. With regard to investments in Gijón, the Socialist Party wants the intermodal station to be built as soon as possible, on which the best solution will be taken, taking into account the risks, the functionality, the cost, the environment and the time frame. We also want the metrotrain to be put into service until Cabueñes. This will revitalize public transport in general - not only rail - in Gijón and throughout the Asturian metropolitan area, as well as small trade, and will give new impetus to the Knowledge Mile. In relation to the Nearness Plan of Asturias 2017, it is being worked on. ADIF is currently engaged in actions worth more than EUR 400 million. Therefore, this Nearness Plan 2017-2022 is being implemented, which has also been integrated into the National Nearness Plan 2020-2025. With regard to Langreo, the Government is committed to urgently meeting the agreement to terminate and put into service the so-called Langreo underground. In relation to the infrastructures of Avilés, the same is true. There is a commitment to the underground of the railway and to the new access to the port, fulfilling the planned agenda. Mr Martínez Oblanca, the politicians we represent in this Parliament to citizens are to provide solutions, to make life better for citizens and to have decent services at all levels, but we are not here to create useless and meaningless debates, and you are doing so today, because with some of the points of your motion you intend to reopen debates that were already closed, such as the width of the road and the arrival of the AVE on our land. I would remind you that the decisions have always been taken in accordance with the technical criteria of the technicians responsible for this matter. Everyone in Asturias knows that this issue is an old obsession of the founder of his party, Mr Álvarez-Cascos, who, by the way, does not have a lot of people left in the Forum; you seem to be one of them, because, if not, you would not raise this debate. It is good that we talk about the Asturian railway infrastructure, but, please, let us be serious. It is clear that you and your party, again raising the debate on the width of the road - and I say this to you with all due respect - do not represent the interests of either the citizenry or the Asturian economy. For that, Mr. Martínez Oblanca, to be in sterile controversy, do not count on us. Asturias does have the work and the rigour of this Government and this parliamentary group to provide the railway infrastructure that is worthy and appropriate to our needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u154	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, good afternoon. Mr Martínez Oblanca, you know that transport infrastructures are basic for everyone everywhere and in all aspects of life. They are linked to economic growth, improved quality of life and territorial vertebration, which are aspects that condition the future of any society and contribute decisively to improving the competitiveness of enterprises and to more sustainable development. That is why we understand the claim of the Foro Asturias motion that infrastructure has a direct impact on territorial and urban developments, and those that it claims for the Principality will certainly be as necessary as appropriate. It happens, however, that the defence of the proposals that each group can make in this House cannot become a letter to the Magi. We understand that it claims for Asturias the connection with the Atlantic corridor of the AVE, although it should be pointed out that the really important thing is that, twenty years after the first high-speed interventions - or thirty, rather - none of the two corridors, neither the Atlantic nor the Mediterranean, has yet been completed. We understand your claim to improve rail access to ports of general interest in Asturias, but we do not understand that you do so in contrast to others or under the false assumption that we already have them in Euskadi, because we do not have them. It seems opportune for me to call for dealing with railway actions in different aspects and places in the Principality, but perhaps I should think that those who call for the transfer of competences in these areas do so not only because we believe that we can respond to our needs from our own institutions, but also because this prevents us from relying on those who, as it seems to happen to you too, do not know about your existence or your needs. At EAJ-PNV, the Basque Group in Congress, we are convinced that the infrastructures must be designed and managed taking into account the citizens to whom they must provide services, and to this end the Basque administrations, the ones closest to the needs of Basque citizens, must have all the competences in their design, development and management. You know the way in which you are going and who you are going to raise these issues, but we do not believe that the formula used is the most appropriate. On the basis of our pronouncements, of course, we are not going to oppose the approach you have taken on any of the points you have presented, which are various actions, but, feeling very much, we cannot support them either on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u156	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that the Spanish Government's railway policy has not so far been at all balanced, prioritizing the radial connections from Madrid and condemning the abandoned to other territories. In the case of Galicia the state of the internal railway networks is especially bloody, when they exist - for example, there is no between Santiago de Compostela and Lugo, despite being two of the main Galician cities - with obvious deficits or with virtually total absence of the service of closeness, a state that requires urgent action. That is why the BNG is calling for a change of direction in railway policy - we agree with the proposer here - a change that pays attention to the areas with the greatest structural deficit in railway matters. That is why in the investment agreement we incorporated the Atlantic freight corridor, complete the connections with the external ports of Ferrol and A Coruña and modernise and complete the railway network of Galicia. By the way, among the actions that we understand priority, being one of the most precarious lines, with the highest degree of deterioration, breakdowns and accidents, which makes it unreliable, but at the same time absolutely necessary, is the FEVE line that articulates the whole northern Galician of Ferrol to Ribadeo and continues to Gijón. That is why we are surprised that among the package of demands of the proposer is not the line of FEVE, perhaps sinning to look exclusively in the direction of Madrid and forgetting to turn the view to the west. In any case, for us, modernising this connection is also important. With regard to the proposals he makes for Asturias, logically, given the degree of knowledge we have of the adequacy of those proposals, we are going to abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u158	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully understand the position of Forum Asturias. If I were an Asturian, I would obviously defend it, because the Valencians have a very similar situation. Twenty-eight years ago - twenty-eight years ago - the first AVE was inaugurated in Seville; the second and third cities of Spain are still not connected by AVE. Inexplicable, isn't it? That's what happens in the Kingdom of Spain. Madrid goes through the third passing tunnel; Valencia is neither expected nor expected, and remains Europe's railway traffic light. It is the third city in Spain. The Mediterranean corridor is still unfinished. Would a Spaniard in his right mind allow this? 50% of foreign tourists enter the Mediterranean corridor. Fifty per cent of the Spanish population is located in the autonomous communities where the Mediterranean corridor runs; where 45 per cent of GDP is produced; where 47 per cent of the productive fabric is produced; where 46 per cent of the Spanish employment is located; where 51 per cent of the goods are located and where 63 per cent of the traffic in port goods is absorbed. And it is still not finished, twenty-eight years after the inauguration of the first AVE in Seville. Can anyone understand that? We have had PP and PSOE governments, and this remains unfinished. How do you think and how do you run infrastructure in Spain? Some of us have the answer in our heads, but, for education and so that I do not call the attention of the Presidency again today, I will carefully reserve the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u160	Thank you so much for both. Now, Mrs Fernández Castañón, for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, has the floor. I'm sorry about your previous confusion.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u161	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. [[Start your bable intervention]] If someone doesn't understand, I guess he thinks it's a tongue. So you know, co-officiality. [[Applauds]] I now turn to the motion that Mr Oblanca brings us to the House today. From Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal we have very clear, and we have always defended it, that the railway must be that which spills the territory and that, moreover, this is to speak of sovereignty. Good public communications that allow us to be connected, to develop our professional activity and to access public, cultural and relational services, in short, to develop our lives, must be a right at the same time as a contribution to our productive model. Let them tell autonomous people and SMEs, let them tell Asturians and Asturians, who know perfectly well what an improvement of our communications means. Mr Oblanca, I am talking about closeness, which is one of the points of your motion and with which we obviously agree. The state of FEVE is desolating. We could watch stepicursoras pass like those of the western movies when we wait on the platform in Moreda or Cabañaquinta. In your explanatory statement, Mr Oblanca, it seems that concern goes more towards a proposal that - I'm sorry - seems to deceive citizens, as needs versus personal fixations of their political formation and as reality versus science fiction. Look, no AVE will connect Madrid-Oviedo in less than two and a half hours. This is known by anyone - as is the case with this Member who does every week - who goes up and knows that from Madrid to León takes two abundant hours. It is absolutely impossible that from Leon to Oviedo, I will no longer say Gijón, we are in less than half an hour. I wish the transporter could, but it doesn't seem possible at the moment. He says in his statement of motives that it is bad communications that cause so many people to leave Asturias. As a member of the so-called ALSA generation, I will tell you that, above all, it is because of the lack of possibilities of developing a life that allows us to work, having a family. Many young and prepared people have gone, highly qualified, because they offered none of that, and there neither you nor the People's Party are taken away, because the cuts and precariousness in labor reform have been important generators of that exodus. The spokesman for Compromís, Mr Baldoví, said a moment ago that if he were Asturian, he would agree with the necessity of the AVE. For in this I imagine you will agree with me: the good thing actually is that from the territories, in this case from Asturias, let us think about what the priorities are. The priority for Asturians and Asturians is that we are well communicated within our territory, above being able to reach the capital of the entire State. I'm going on. You put, Mr Oblanca, this motion in the context of the health crisis. The pandemic has revealed to us what is essential and, therefore, it marks us what the road map to a new normality has to be: what we want to protect, what we want to shield, what we want for our society and for our country. Let's learn about what model of cities we want. He will agree with me that we want some people to communicate with us, to be able to walk, to be able to play sports, to walk and not drown in more pollution; the same was the asphyxiation to which the spokesman for VOX referred earlier. This is in conflict with point 8 of his motion, which is precisely what he proposes to prioritize vehicles above the needs of the citizenry. For Avilés we want a city that prioritizes people, not vehicles, and we want wisdom. Let us take advantage of the underground of railways to bury also those of traffic of vehicles. These ideas are not new, these ideas are from the sixties of the last century. We could see what Jane Jacobs was saying, but we can also listen to the citizens of Avilés, as, by the way, we have heard that of Langreo, that what he is saying is that it is also necessary to be buried; with that we also agree. It's not that hard to listen to people. I now turn to Gijón and the road plan, in the time I have left, because it is not so difficult to listen to the citizenry. Right now there are sectors that consider that opening the 2019 consensus, to which the motion refers, is an opportunity to improve the project. Good; there, in the search for consensus, certainty and certainty is where they will find us to do it. If you want, we talk about why we have been waiting so long, Mr Oblanca, but then I will have to go and list occurrences and negligence, like the subway, another famous expert - let's use that word - of Helmets, or like the million euros that rose from Forum and for which, by the way, the party denounces you. So, you'll see, but still this better not touch it. I'm closed now. There is a book that I like especially for many of his texts, which I find exciting, which is Castile, from Azorín. There he describes, in some of the fragments, what he meant for the country, what he meant for Spain at that time to see how he was crossing, with a very fine line, the whole plateau a train, a railway that served to unite the citizenry. This is what we have to be asking ourselves, what are the demands of the citizenry, and not so many infrastructures proper to a neoliberalism that neither brought prosperity nor allowed us to be better connected. If it is to meet the needs of the citizenry and not to invent them, we will agree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u162	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Gazquez Collado.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u163	Good afternoon. First of all, my memory of the victims of COVID, my condolences to family and friends and a great deal of encouragement to those who are still struggling to overcome it and to combat its serious consequences. I would like to make a couple of points. Mrs. Castañón, of course we understand you. The bable is not any demand, but quite the opposite; co-officiality does not want it in Asturias, and knows it. Mr Morís, your president does not breastfeed; in Asturias health has not worked well: one third of the inpatients have died - one third of the inpatients have died, I repeat -. President Barbon doesn't get his chest out of that. Better be more humble. The People's Group will support the motion submitted by Foro Asturias, which contemplates the points contained in our coalition programme and on which the People's Group has already submitted non-law proposals, written and oral questions. In fact, we do not ask them very much, only to conclude the projects drawn up and started by the governments - plural governments - of the People's Party and not to ruin them. I say this because they are both from Mr Aznar's government and Mr Rajoy's, because Mr Aznar's projects are still pending from the 2000s, paralyzed by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. We already know that the socialist governments are never going to look at new investments in Asturias - and they also have the complicit silence of the Asturian President, Mr Barbón, who is not going to claim anything from them - but we only ask them to conclude what we started. Asturias, as Mr Martínez Oblanca said very well, is isolated by land, sea and air: the ports of El Musel and Avilés, underutilized; the motorway of the sea, stop sine die; the road projects, paralyzed; the flights, with prohibitive prices, and the railway connections, the reason for this motion, absolutely chaotic. There are stops essential works, such as the Langreo underground, the northern round of Avilés, the Gijón metrotrain or the accesses to the ports of Gijón and Avilés, and we could also include, although it is an infrastructure work, the mentioned Nicolas Soria bridge. I'm going to focus on three of the investments that lately, for bad news, have been bogged down. Gijón intermodal station. Consensus and effectiveness arranged for their location to be in the vicinity of the Railway Museum. The ministry now decides to change its situation to a decentralized area that will make it neither efficient nor useful. It will pass as with the temporary station of Gijón - its station - whose bad location has lost 50% of the users. Mr Figaredo said 70%; we have not yet arrived, although at this rate we will arrive: we are at 50%. Mr. Ábalos is planning another big fiasco for Gijón. Close. In Asturias it can be summarized as follows: 4000 cancellations in four months. I heard Mr Ábalos in the Transport Committee in February praise the punctuality of this service in Asturias without getting colored. That's an insult to Asturian intelligence. Trains that don't leave, logically, aren't late. And, by the way, how is it that the notes are returned for delays in the vicinity of Valencia? And in Albacete, and in Badajoz, and in Asturias? Mariano Rajoy's closeness plan from 2017 to 2025 budgeted for Asturias more than 600 million euros in close proximity. The investment effort between different items for the 2018-2019 biennium was over 100 million. They have agreed to execute only 23.5 million, i.e. they have not reached 25% in execution; a real disaster. And as for the EVA, I have to tell the spokesman for Citizens that I speak with political and technical criteria. We want the same AVE that have the rest of the Spaniards, from city center to city center. Ours is 30 kilometers from Oviedo and more than 50 kilometers from Gijón and Avilés and, of course, must reach the three cities. Our AVE - to give you an idea, ladies and gentlemen - is the only one in all of Spain that passes through three different platforms: international wide platform, Iberian-international mixed wide platform and Iberian wide platform. It is clear that this implies that times cannot be competitive, and if you don't believe me - because from certain benches, when we tell the truth, they say that we cry or simply don't listen to us - ask Mr. Mazón - that I don't know if I see him around here - with whom I share a profession, because I suppose his technical judgment will not be suspicious. Last Wednesday the minister said - again without getting colored - that the time difference would be seven minutes. The AVE projected by you does not take seven more minutes, it takes seventy more minutes than the one projected by the People's Party. Mr. Ábalos is condemning Asturias at low speed. In any case, believe me, we do not consider Mr Ábalos to have anything against Asturias or the Asturians; unfortunately, we fear that the problem is due to his incompetence, because he knows nothing about this. There are four clear lines of railway action in Spain and still Mr Ábalos has not found out: to enhance proximity as a form of sustainable transport, with intermodal stations and dissuasive parking; to enhance the rail transport of goods, highlighting the corridors of Iberian width, improving railway connections and creating new logistic knots; to finish correctly the infrastructures of high speed: Galicia Cantabria, Extremadura and the Atlantic corridors - of the motion -, Mediterranean and central...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u164	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u165	I'm done right now. ... but Mr. Ábalos of this ministry knows nothing, it is very great for him; he may know some of the airports and the transit of suitcases, but he knows nothing more about his ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u166	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, do you accept the amendments that have been tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u167	No, I do not accept any amendments, Mr President, and I remind you of my request to vote on the point motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u168	Thank you very much. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the measures envisaged to grant flexibility to the key sectors of economic activity. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 173/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u169	We then move on to the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, on the measures envisaged to give flexibility to the key sectors of economic activity. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u170	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Last week, this group asked the Minister of Industry about the measures planned to give flexibility to the key sectors of economic activity. Industrial production, as you know, has suffered an unprecedented setback in April, going back in all autonomous communities, and by branches of activity the fall is widespread, but especially intense in motor vehicles. We, the Basque Nationalist Party, have always bet and bet on industry as an engine of the economy and have always shown concern, today more if possible, for the lack of an industrial policy; a concern that the sector itself is also highlighting; a concern that, far from diminishing, in last week's inquiry even worsened, because, on the one hand, no concrete commitment was made and, on the other, it was surprising that in an industry inquiry we were told about tourism. We want to talk about active, non-passive industrial policy, and a ministry that is really involved, that risks, because if it is not now the time for an industrial policy with which it is falling, when will it be? We say it loud and clear again: not investing in industrial policy is expensive, and we have already seen it. It is time to maintain the existing and to provide a new impetus to sustain activity, employment and industry in the short term and to improve their future competitiveness in the medium term. At the moment and as an industrial policy, we understand that the Government has the so-called sectoral agendas, eight agendas that are an update of the reports that were prepared by the Government of the People's Party, that made a diagnosis of the situation in each of the relevant industrial sectors and in which the current ministry has outlined some lines of action, the result of which is a series of general measures without just planning to carry them forward and that, given the current situation, they may be somewhat out of date. The measures now being taken to maintain and safeguard industry will be decisive for their maintenance, development and future growth. The expansion of the virus and its effect on productive activity are putting sectors with a high impact on the economy, dragging even the auxiliary industry into jeopardy. That is why we believe that there is a need for a specific impetus, as we have already said, especially for those sectors such as automotive, aeronautical and machine tools, which have a high impact on employment, technological development and the development of related sectors and which, as I have said, are also highly exporting and highly innovative. The machine-tool, aeronautical and automotive industries, among others, have been severely affected by the pandemic and, after initial manufacturing supply interruptions, are now experiencing a drop in consumer demand, with a recovery schedule that is completely uncertain. Faced with this situation, as I said, these sectors are addressing the situation generated by COVID with the implementation of adjustment measures to adapt to the new market reality, reducing operating costs and ordering their productive and organizational capacity so as not to lose people's talent. These are measures that we also said were not enough and, therefore, in the face of this uncertain recovery schedule, they need, on the one hand, greater flexibility to accompany the return of business and to be able to reintegrate the entire workforce as there is demand, and, on the other, a coordinated plan to support the industry and reactivate investment, so that the situation arising from COVID can be faced with financial muscle, but also those challenges that it faces. We have established three points in the motion. In the first point we raise the extension of ERTS sectorally as long as the causes that motivated them persist, even until the end of the year, if it is possible, for those who need it, for sectors that are competitive, because of course we understand that they have product-market, that they are reliable sectors, with growth potential and that they generate value through innovation. We also propose prolonging ERTE in those productive sectors and companies where it is necessary, and where they also have the SURE Fund for this purpose. It is true that the ERTEs end on 30 June, and that is why we believe that their prolongation is necessary, because the causes that motivated them continue to exist in most cases. It is therefore necessary to maintain ERTE and its effects so that companies can adapt to this crisis situation and to give safety to workers. Companies cannot wait until the last day of the newsletter to know what to stick to, to program their operations. Industry needs to plan the production chain, and that is why the decision needs to be made today and not tomorrow. On the other hand, the second point talks about facilitating an agile and flexible transition to new ERTE for economic and organisational reasons. The third point presents an ad hoc strategy and plan shared with the autonomous communities, defining the actions that can be implemented for those industrial sectors that are key in the economy. And point four speaks of creating a specific automotive sector table between the Government and the autonomous communities particularly affected by the assistance and participation of the sector, although again it is true that we have come across a plan in which, while partly responding to what is requested by this sector, the autonomous communities, which are aware of the assets available and the industrial capacities existing in this sector, have not been counted. And it is that we have once again witnessed a unilateral plan, rather than a shared strategy that brings together efforts to address the present, but above all, the future of these sectors, which are key to the economy. With regard to the proposed amendments, we cannot share those tabled in principle by the Socialist Group together with the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can because we understood that they implied little involvement on the part of the Ministry of Industry, as they first talked about continuing to study whether the ERTEs were being expanded or whether the new ones were being made more flexible by economic or organizational reasons. Our question was how long. It is not the time for a residual ministry, but for a ministry that we understand has to lead this industrial conversion and for this it needs to risk and take concrete action. In a second round we have been asked to approach the ERTEs, but we do not think it is enough, as it is still being negotiated without success, and it does not mean compromise. We're at the door of June 21st, companies need certainty and security. While other countries are betting for their industry, such as France, which has already announced an enlargement of ERTE basically between one and two years, here we continue to empty the margarita: ERTE yes, ERTE no. How long? ERTEs are not only a mechanism for safeguarding businesses, but also employment. When we talk about extending ERTEs by force majeure they tell us that legally it cannot be done. We understand that it is possible, first of all, because the causes that motivated them remain, because we are still in an alarm situation, because even if it is in extremis they have until 21 to 12 of the night to take this decision, and in fact they are negotiating it. As the Group of Podemos said, if you want, you can. We therefore understand that it is more a matter of political will. It cannot be assumed that companies want to extend and abuse ERTE. ERTE does not mean free bar, but if they are not to become ERE or bankruptcy, it is necessary to expand them, and if it is through collective bargaining much better. From an ERT you can get out, but from an ERE it is much more complicated. When they say that collective bargaining is being approached, making this commitment to this amendment does not mean that, if the others reached a lesser agreement in that collective bargaining, we would face it, because obviously if the sector has negotiated it it will be welcomed. On the other hand, with regard to the amendments concerning the extension of ERTs to other sectors, such as the one put forward by some political groups, we believe that this motion is extrapolable to another sector affected by the crisis and that they also need a ministry to deal with them, but we cannot include it, because our motion refers to other sectors, although, if they look at point one, we are talking about key sectors of the economy, which could be understood to be included. Finally, with regard to the amendments on the electro-intensive sector, we believe that this is a problem and a different motivation from what we are discussing here today. Its claim is totally legitimate, but we understand that more than in the non-law proposal that has been debated today and even in its possible incorporation through amendments, so that the highly intensive and electro-intensive, as well as the less intensive SMEs than those mentioned, can benefit from the current drafting of that statute, as I have explained earlier in today's plenary. Anyway, in response to some of the requests, we will try to draft a transactional that we will send you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u171	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which will also, in this turn, first and foremost, set out Mr Martínez Oblanca's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. The motion put forward by the honourable Member, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, is timely and necessary, because the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism has eluded in this forum substantial and sound commitments to overcome the critical situation facing the sectors of its competence and, in particular, the measures envisaged to give flexibility to the key sectors of economic activity, as called for in the inquiry. Those announced in the last few hours for the automotive sector, with a endowment of 3750 million euros, respond to a late plan - nothing to do with the other countries homologous to Spain - and insufficient and with absence of essential measures, among which could be, the reproach to the vice president Teresa Ribera, who does not satisfy in its radical ecologicalism with the desertification of the mining basins, the closure of the power plants and the obstacles to the electro-intensive industry, also shaken the car. Stay and go. Nor is the Government committed to industry, and it has therefore taken advantage of the opportunity provided by this initiative to table an additional amendment to urge the Government to position itself in the European bodies in unequivocal defence of industry and for the implementation of urgent trade safeguard measures that will enable our steel and metallurgy to compete in terms of equality with other world producers. We should not miss a single day in responding from Spain to the recent decisions taken by the European Commission, which, far from providing protection to the iron and steel industry, has promoted measures that will further promote the entry into the European market of products produced in different countries of the world where the labour and environmental costs do not apply, putting our industry at a competitive disadvantage, which in Spain, moreover, has another added factor, another penalised element, such as the high electricity tariff that we have so repeatedly talked about in the course of this plenary session. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u173	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the motion put forward by Mrs Sagastizabal as a result of the previous week's inquiry because it is true that, above all, in those communities with a greater industrial weight, its specificity must also be taken into account. In this case, moreover, many of these companies will notice the consequences of the crisis resulting from the COVID-19 in a few months; it will not be now, but because of its type of activity, they will notice it in two or three months and even a little more, and that is why that is fundamental. In that sense, it is true that the minister's commitment the other day was null and void, as the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party has rightly pointed out, and it is also true that at this time - it is sad, but it is so - many people who are in an ERTE are not charging for it, which is a problem added to the whole situation and to the commitment to be able to expand them. I do not know whether there will be any compromise on the part of the groups supporting the Government, but no one escapes from the fact that the Basque Nationalist Party has command in place and, therefore, I hope that, whether this motion is passed or not, then we can see that in this case it is being carried out by the Government. It must also be said that all these companies to which you are referring are companies, usually with many workers and therefore the economic impact they can have is tremendous. We hope that the Government will take account of this situation - of course, we must say, we have had a very interesting afternoon, talking about a lot of issues and I see that no one from the government has appeared all afternoon - as the spokesman for the Socialist Party said this afternoon. It seems that the Government is not very interested in what is being debated in this House, but I am very concerned that talking about issues that affect all of Spain, as before infrastructure and now industry, about specific sectoral issues of specific autonomous communities, on the part of the Government, let us see that there is total silence, and that is why they are not interested at all. I guess they're doing these Tuesday sessions so we can entertain each other and they'll come another day to decide. But, well, that was a parenthesis. It seems very important to me, it seems very interesting to me, and that is why we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u175	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u176	Thank you, President. We agree with the motion put forward by the Basque Nationalist Party. In Catalonia, as in other regions, industrial production has suffered a very significant decline. In the middle of the pandemic is announced the closure of the Nissan plant, a severe blow for the automotive sector. From Junts per Catalunya we understood that the motion could be extended to other sectors, for example, the services, tourism, restoration, culture or leisure sector. The proposing group has focused on the industry sector; we agree with its proposal, and accordingly, we have signed a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u178	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this motion recognizes the importance of the ERTE, which should be of full consensus for this whole Chamber, not creating the troubles to which, unfortunately, so ill-advised we have the right-wing bench. This crisis has caused us the immense pain of the loss of too many fellow citizens: parents, mothers, brothers, sisters, friends, friends, but it can and must also become a turning point to give a change to the economic structure of the country. An industrialized, more sustainable country with decent and skilled jobs and a fair distribution of wealth through a tax reform that complies with article 31 of the Constitution: that each one contribute according to his or her economic capacity, that is, who has the most contribution. So far, the largest contributors to the public sector have been the large masses of workers, self-employed and self-employed. Undoubtedly, ERTEs have been and are the most important tool to get out of the crisis. It is to be thanked for the work done by Minister Yolanda Díaz and her team, since the ERTEs have not only enabled more than six million workers to maintain a certain level of income, but also, together with other measures taken, have made it possible for many of our companies to survive. Unlike the PP in the 2008 crisis, this government has been committed to caring for the workers and the self-employed, to caring for small and medium-sized enterprises with the clear goal that no one is left behind. The EERTs have obtained the consensus of the whole society: of entrepreneurs investing in companies and of workers investing by financing with their taxes measures such as the EERTs or the necessary infrastructures, measures that make possible the economic development and the subsistence of companies in this crisis. From our parliamentary group we believe that the extension of ERTE beyond the state of alarm will be necessary and that it should benefit all companies, so we propose to Minister Yolanda Díaz that she continue to agree on the possibility of such an extension. This crisis serves to rethink the way forward: the urgent need to bet on the fight against climate change, the deployment of renewable energies, technological development, digitisation, science, i.e. to bet on diversification and sustainability. Now is the time to keep all possible companies afloat, through ERTE, by providing them with ICO loans, with European Union aid to reactivate the economy, thinking about the new normality that must also be a paradigm shift. Our aim must be to leave no one behind and all the measures we are consensusing are in this direction. We have tabled amendments to this motion to include all companies in all sectors because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of saving a few, but of saving all possible ones. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Nevado del Campo has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u180	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, my group regrets the difficult times in the automotive sector and we hope that they will be resolved as soon as possible, but if you want to know what are really problems, I invite you to take a look at Extremadura. It is a pity that a region so loyal to the Kingdom of Spain cannot come to this House to raise a 92% drop in production, because we practically do not have production companies; we simply do not have industry. Perhaps if we had Basque fiscal policy, we could be sharing problems right now. Extremadura is a region that has never posed a single problem to this Government or to any other and, because it does not have, has no way to reach the capital of Spain. You present a motion to give flexibility to a key sector for your community, as it affects more than three hundred companies based in the Basque provinces; a motion that is unambitious, selective and takes no more than what affects your territory. We understand that they focus on sectors that are competitive, viable and with growth potential and that generate value through innovation, and that they do so especially in the automotive, aeronautical or machine tools sector, as they are the kind of companies that you have in the three Spanish provinces you occupy. However, we must think of everyone. That is why, in those 5300 parliamentary initiatives that my group has presented during the pandemic, we have thought about all economic sectors and have included, of course, automobile as well because your community, gentlemen of the PNV, is our community and we care as much about you as we care about you. We can only support your proposal if you are willing to accept our amendment, including other sectors that have also been harshly punished, such as the textile, leather, footwear and furniture manufacturing sectors. We must not limit ourselves to facilitating survival and viability only to one sector or to sticking to production companies, since there are other types of companies that depend on political will to be viable or not. The primary sector, for example, has been calling for aid long before the pandemic began. They simply demanded that their crops should be harvested and, despite their tiredness and discouragement, when we need their help, they have parked all the problems and dedicated themselves to feeding us unvalued whether it compensates them economically or not. We have survived thanks to them, and now we are going to focus only on the industry sector? It is true that the primary sector in general is not affected by ERTE, but they are affected by many other problems that we cannot leave behind. Therefore, we would not oppose the extension of the ERTE, which particularly affects intensively industrialized territories, nor would we refuse to facilitate an agile and flexible transition to the new ERTE for economic or organizational reasons, but we must amend the motion by extending it to other sectors, not only industrial but also business in general, such as trade, tourism or construction. We would also accept the creation of a specific table for the automotive sector, provided that you agree to add a general working table for all types of production industry; a table for SMEs from other sectors and services such as culture, not to mention the bull sector; a table for trade, for tourism, construction and, of course, also for the primary sector. We expect that the PNV, which presents this initiative, will obtain Mr Sánchez's approval and will give in, just as it gives in to everything that these and other gentlemen ask of it, basically because it depends on its permanence. VOX will always support care for all those who are early and struggling and for all those who really need it. Spain deserves people willing to give themselves fully to the search for the common good, and not rulers who only seek a status that they would never have achieved without betraying those who trusted in them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u181	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moralesja Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u182	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a motion on industry here today and we are doing so because the treatment that the Sánchez Government has given to the industrial sector in general during these two years has been null and void, and the truth is sad, because today I am the fourth person who says this here in the rostrum. They have felt abandoned, one day they said one thing and the next the opposite, and one example is the car sector. Since the first day he has been mistreated, as has been said here, with some statements by the fourth vice president when he said that the diesel had the days counted. But, well, from the minute one of this pandemic that we have had and has devastated each and every Spaniard, the People's Parliamentary Group has been on the lookout for all industrial sectors in this country including automotive. We have met with them and tried to find the most appropriate aid, trying to make the government finally look at one of the most important sectors of our economy. Now they say they approve a plan; a plan - and that must be said - that had given them the sector for two months already. They're late, as was also said here. The car industry in our country has a deep wound and the tirite they put yesterday with the 3750 million euros is not only insufficient, as they said yesterday, but does not guarantee that the multinationals associated with the seventeen factories in our country continue to see us attractive to continue to manufacture their cars here and stay. The treatment given by Spain to the motor vehicle sector is very different from that given by other European countries in our environment, and that is also what we are seeing, ladies and gentlemen. We do not want companies to close, we do not want Nissan to close, because that is talking about deindustrialisation, because that is talking about relocation and because that, in short, is emptying our entire regions. However, this treatment of the industrial sector is repeated in other sectors. We have seen how they left to their fate, almost two years ago, a sector, to the electro-intensive industry sector, and a time has come when it is impossible for them to continue working - here we have Alcoa San Cibrao - and we also continue to wait for that status, that status that does not arrive, despite having been announced several times by this government in the various electoral campaigns in Galicia, both by its president and by its Minister of Industry. There are now elections on 12 July and I hope that if they go to Galicia to say something they will go with the approved electro-intensive status and with the allegations of the Xunta de Galicia, the Principality of Asturias and the Government of Cantabria signed and included in that status. Otherwise, don't come to Galicia. That is why we have tabled an amendment to add to this motion, calling for the adoption of that statute, including the amendments tabled by Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria, by the way, governed by different political colours. The critical situation in the electro-intensive industry stems from the absolute absence of an energy policy on the part of the central government. In this context, Galicia called for a unit of action and, after meeting with the electro-intensive Galician industries, with the workers of Alcoa San Cibrao and after maintaining a direct dialogue with Cantabria and Asturias, the three communities present these allegations to the statute, and present them because the Government's proposal includes clearly insufficient measures. The government should consider what is doing wrong when Galicia, Asturias and Cantabria, as well as Alcoa San Cibrao, Alu Ibérica and the entire Galician electrointensive industry and its workers, say to him: No. Well, let us hope that this Government will incorporate the allegations. In this sense, the allegations - apart from what has been commented here that it is the inclusion of the conspicuous decree electrointensive and some other things that have already been commented on in a previous PNL - request to recover the auction of interruptibility under the conditions that were convened during the governments of Mariano Rajoy, because now we do not know if there will be auction and, if there is, when it will be and under what conditions. Stop playing with the workers who depend on this industry and their families. Please meet our demands. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group we are betting on employment, we believe that it is fundamental and priority to accompany the companies and industries in our country on their way to recovery. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to the amendment saying that we advocate that these ERTs should be until 31 December. It has been answered by the proposer of this motion and we would like to take it from here to tell Minister Díaz that, please, she will be aware of the payments of these ERTE because there are still families waiting and it is the only livelihood they have. That is why I think Mrs Díaz should apply a little more. We don't want the ERTEs now to become the EREs and the redundancies tomorrow. We need a government to comply, a government...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u183	Mrs. Moraleja, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u184	We need a government that is up to it, that complies, that looks after its industry and its workers and that is consistent with the decisions it makes. Thank you very much. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Moraleja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Guijarro Ceballos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u186	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Good afternoon. Pick it up on. Certainly, this pandemic has changed our view, changed our perspective, also in economic terms, but fortunately, this government has once again invested in a social state, in a democratic state, and every day more and more we repeat that no one should be left behind. It is true that in the backpack we have certain uncollaborative heritages and attitudes, even trying to boost the magnificent work in Europe. Honestly, I don't know if they pretend the worse, the better, but it's a shame they haven't added up and just left their own country in such a tough time for Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]] From here, once again, we appeal to you to raise your shoulder for your country; not for this Government, for Spanish citizens. This parliamentary group wants to acknowledge the titanic effort that has also been made in the economic field, with packages of measures focused on job creation and economic activity and, moreover, with a permanent dialogue with the different social actors, cross-cutting and, then, in this phase of descalation, sectorally. An extraordinary economic resource plan has been implemented to support the country's employment and productive fabric. Examples include ERTE, benefits to self-employed persons, rent moratoriums and deferral of tax debts to Social Security. They are measures that have been implemented fairly - equitably - in each autonomous community. For example, in Euskadi, where the motion's rapporteur came from and I myself, Basque companies have obtained funding from the ICO line for more than €37 billion. More than 50,000 Basque self-employed women have received termination benefits. And entrepreneurs have had exemptions from social security contributions for more than EUR 14 million. This motion refers, in particular, to the ERTE instrument. It has been clearly demonstrated that they have been and are a great barrier to this crisis and we welcome the fact that an agreement is being worked out with the social partners to extend them until 30 September or as far as possible further extensions are considered and negotiated with the actors. This process of dialogue with social actors must be respected. In addition, this process is also exploring the possibility of maintaining ERTs in sectors with difficult immediate recovery and a flexible transition to new ERTs. In Euskadi, for example, more than 135 000 women workers have so far been able to benefit from an ERT and exemptions for companies not to pay social security contributions for these workers have added more than EUR 73 million. It is true that industry is complex. In some territories it is diverse and also complex, but we are confident, confident, of the efforts of this Government to place the economy at pre-crisis levels and continue to grow in a sustained and sustainable manner. The other sector referred to in the motion is that of automotive; a sector, as you know, strategic in the Spanish economy - Spain is the second manufacturer in Europe and the eighth world - with two million posts linked to it. In Euskadi 45 000 people work in this sector. We know that it has a tractor effect in many places in Spain and that is why we are glad that this socialist government has led a collective - collective - response plan in the European Union, which has supported companies in the sector with more than 3.8 billion in ICO-backed loans. And to all this is added the Plan of stimulus and reactivation of the automotive sector, which was presented yesterday. It's a good plan, a good plan. It was presented yesterday by the President-in-Office and its amount is 37 billion euros -3750 million euros -, the largest amount of direct subsidy to the sector since 2015. We would also like to highlight in this plan the economic support for the acquisition of more modern, more efficient vehicles, with reduced emissions, investments to promote modernisation and production, the drive for development and research or vocational training and qualification measures. Solid looks like the plan. It will also be very positive to share it with the autonomous communities - the pact for industry was in that too - and to launch that sector-specific table with the especially affected autonomous communities. In short, it is a bet decided to recover muscle in an industry that in some cases already weakened before this crisis. As you see - and I finish - work, much work, dialogue, resources, alliances, height of sight, but above all responsibility. We are in a tremendously adverse situation, but with a lot of constructive - though not all - attitude, together and together we will overcome them. Mila esker. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u188	Thank you, Madam President. I am sure you will allow me to reply for one minute for allusions to Mr. García Morís, who has thrown at me in the previous motion to say that the isolation of Asturias has allowed him to pass this pandemic with better data than other autonomous communities. I'm going to read you two dates. First. The near absence of inflows of infected cases from other countries and the absence of massive means of transport, such as the metro, have been important factors to explain the positive evolution of Asturias against the COVID. Monday. Asturias has some characteristics...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u189	Mrs Muñoz, I have to call you to the question, because, in a debate that belongs to another parliamentary initiative, we cannot go back to previous initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u190	Mr. García Morís, this is what Dr. Fernando Simón said. Thank you, President. With regard to the motion that concerns us, I would like to tell you that in Citizens we are very proud - and I will say this whenever it is necessary - of having managed to take away from the Government the commitment that the duration of the ERTE due to force majeure would be disconnected from the state of alarm and extended over time in exchange for supporting one of the extensions of its state of alarm. We also did the same with the benefits of self-employed people and with other measures against the pandemic and the economic crisis that have been very positive for all Spaniards and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased. Thanks to this demand, the ERTEs declared during the state of alarm have managed to extend, in a first step, until 30 June. We have always seen it as a very important but insufficient step, because the reality is that the vast majority of the companies that hosted the ERTE will not be ready to resume their activity normally by the end of this month. That is why we continue to ask and we will continue to try to negotiate with the Government to extend the ERTE, generally, at least until 30 September, and we can go further in those sectors that are particularly affected by this coronavirus pandemic, such as tourism or hospitality. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a useful policy, a policy that has a direct and positive impact on the lives of citizens. It seems that the negotiation to extend the ERTE at least until 30 September has been suspended. We hope that common sense will prevail and that the Government will no longer commit itself to conditions that are very difficult to meet for companies hosting these ERTs. Ladies and gentlemen, the priority is to protect and save jobs. The Government cannot impose measures that compromise the viability of companies and ultimately destroy the jobs they said they wanted to protect. On the other hand, we continue to hear complaints from workers affected by ERTE who still do not receive their benefit. We understand that, in the face of a problem of this magnitude, there can be temporary and punctual incidences in a system, but that this situation is prolonged over time - it is a problem of the company, it is a problem of SEPE - without anyone doing anything, with the consequent defencelessness of the worker, is also not tolerable. As far as industry is concerned, we share the desire to establish a dialogue table with the main players, as well as the ambition to reach a national pact for the industry that we have already presented, which my Citizens' Parliamentary Group presented last May, with some main axes, which are: a specific plan for the automotive industry; an urgent stimulus plan in industrial sectors with tractor and high technology effect; the promotion of investment, internationalisation and foreign trade policies; an industry plan that boosts the intermodality of the transport of goods, reduces the costs of the transport of goods and that culminates or abets the completion of the Mediterranean corridor; a review of autonomous and State local taxes and taxes to avoid double taxation, and also an industry plan that ensures that this energy transition, which is a guarantee of competitive energy without increasing costs. However, ladies and gentlemen, any technical proposal we send to the government should be subject to an infallible formula, and it is that Minister Garzón does not say that our tourism produces precariousness and does not bring added value, that the fourth vice president does not say that the diesel has the days counted, that the vice president Church does not ask to nationalize companies and that Mrs Díaz does not imply that there is slavery in our market. This, ladies and gentlemen, would do almost as much for our productive fabric and for the legal certainty of investments in Spain as any shock plan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will speak from the seat of my kind spokesman. We welcome and applaud the motion for a subsequent inquiry by his lordship, on which I cannot help but say that it echoes his excellent inquiry last week and that I regret that this time the transactional eagerness did not have the success I think it deserved. We argue that we will get out of this crisis better if we get out more digital, more sustainable and, above all, more industrial. Any euro invested in industry, particularly in maintaining industrial human capital, permeates and generates return. It is so obvious that neither production nor invoicing will be recovered, that the December 31 horizon is not, at all, adventurous and we will see which sectors may need more. In particular, we welcome the fourth point, which calls for a specific table for the automotive sector between the Government and the autonomous communities to invest on the entire value chain, to - I would add - do things better and not do them as always. And already put, throw the rest away and keep Nissan from leaving. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, I ask you whether you accept any of the amendments tabled or are working on a compromise.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u194	We're working on a transactional we'll get you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u195	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u196	We conclude with the point relating to the direct and read-only processing of the draft law repealing the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance, set out in article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Act on the Status of Workers, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October, from the Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. It will be voted in person at the end of this item. For the defence of your amendment, by the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in politics the form is the substance. One of these situations we find in this debate on the draft law on the repeal of article 52 (d) of the Workers' Statute. Our group has tabled an amendment to the whole with an alternative text to what it considers a desideratum, with important and serious formal flaws, while the House acts and is acting against its own acts. Mrs Oramas, last week - and it serves me for the present - in the debate on minimum living income she used, as a brilliant instrument of speech, the fable of the ant and the cigarette, in terms of the doubling in the exhibition to explain the measure that will shortly be modified, given the legal uncertainty that will undoubtedly cause its application. When I was talking about the cigarette, I had to say that I saw another fable, that of the peacock and the herd. A real turkey that, by opening its tail as a fan, intended to seduce those who were spitting in Vistalegre that the sky is not taken by consensus, is taken by assault; a real turkey that I do not customize, which represents the neocommunism that feeds the current government of Spain. Today, here, we see a new staging of the said peacock to strike at the table, a noisy legislative cannon whose sole purpose is not the defence of work or employment or the avoidance of abuse, only a coup d'état for the misleading media owner to visualize who marks the ideological agenda of this government. And, ladies and gentlemen, the form in politics is also the background. Last Thursday we talked about the use of the figure of the royal decree-law, with processing in one reading and, in an unexpected way, with procedural errors of importance, instead of the logic and paused discussion that could serve us all to perfect a norm with an antiquity of forty years, born with the UCD and molded to the alimon by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which now, with the gacha look, consent their silence not to defend what they conceived and nursed between them, giving a submissive pleasure to whom, in reality, marks the passage of this government, and also knowing of the serious procedural defects. Despite this, the neo-communists, interested only in a press headline and marking their ideological agenda, raze with any formal consideration, which is what is happening. In last Thursday's debate, my old friend Jaime Alonso-Cuevillas, now in the political antipodes, pointed out the holes in the hemicycle vault as an accompaniment to his political arguments. None of that must be repeated, but on the basis of unilateral actions such as those that occupy us, which force the meaningless legislative procedure, we are also throwing symbolic losses to that vault, where, in beautiful print, the allegories of the four cardinal virtues that should mark our modus operandi as legislators appear. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to mention them, to justify the amendment as a whole and to state our position in the face of the repeal of a rule which has already gone through without any glory. Strength; strength in our group to defend employment, enterprise, workers and wealth creation, as a laudable goal and unforgivable purpose of VOX. Strength to demand certainty, stability, good governance, common sense, fair and balanced standards. Fortitude, even, as in this case, to endure the distortions, slanders, insidiaries and lies of consensus progresses on us, pinned in right harmony with the truth, that is, with the defense of employment and the generation of wealth; and reminding this House that form is the background. Strength and temperance; temperance to answer, on the basis of reason, the false arguments that are made to justify a legislative abuse of a rule that was born earlier than the COVID, of which only some of the blue bank, possibly, knew its presence. Templarity to reject the PSOE and its unworthy improvisation that they launched last Thursday saying: how could we vote against such suppression, more now, after the pandemic; when the royal decree-law, which was passed, and which is now being processed, let us not forget, by means of a bill, is antecedent to it. But it is that the actual decrees themselves, specifically the 6/2020 and the final provision of 13/2020, explicitly say that they are expressly excluded, by being assimilated to work accidents, contagion or confinement. Has this been ignorance or lie, directly? Templanza to study the proposal, denouncing the expedient and inappropriate way of article 86 of the Spanish Constitution, with evident absence of its elements of extraordinary and urgent necessity; and it is that, in politics, the form is the substance. Templanza to announce that this royal decree lacks motive and opportunity, at the door of the already manida new labor reform or absolute repeal of it, according to the pacts of the PSOE with Bildu. Templarity to point out the bad legislative technique, since it has not even taken into account the usual rule of transitional law, where the effects over time should be ordered in the legislative amendment intended on the same situation, the degree of retroactivity even, known by your lords rule tempus regit actum, without even a derogatory provision, obviating, also, the justification of such absences, unusual in any legislative production. Strength, temperance and prudence; prudence that should not be the disguise of cowards to fear what they will say of us. So, we say that here the form is the bottom. Prudence to understand how, incomprehensiblely, the People's Party and the Socialist Party are paralyzed, unable to defend their own figure, the figure they have formed for forty years, is supposed, in the search for a balance. Prudence to be aware of the needs of a calm debate with the social partners, to make progress in the necessary balance of labour relations, trying to deal reasonably with the damage that absenteeism causes to the productivity of enterprises and, consequently, to their ability to create employment. But no, the drag and the decree. Prudence to be in solidarity with those workers who suffer the absenteeism of their colleagues, some of them unscrupulous professionals who generate overload of work and effort to the rest, and, according to the legislator of the past, one of the main purposes of the norm that end. Prudence to recall that the Constitutional Court endorses the rule that is repealed, and it will be said by some that applying the criterion of the hermeneutic value of international norms, when it has ruled by the Constitutional Court itself that it is not a discriminatory norm and is neither in contradiction with International Labour Organization Convention 158 nor with Community law. Strength, temperance, prudence and justice. We have already said that the rule had been frantic without accompaniment or pomp or circumstance, with the deliberate orphanhood of its creators, even before this legislative trigger, lacking formal justification and due to improper processing. Justice because we denounce unheard-of or deliberate forgetfulness in the very repeal that will be counterproductive to the very purpose that is said to be pursued, prioritizing false advertising and propaganda, which is only what interests neo-communists since they rule. Justice because the derogation in the terms in which it has been operated is inconsistent with what is claimed, since neither does it prohibit dismissal for unjustified absenteeism, by virtue of the application of article 54 of the Workers' Statute, nor the justified one, which would move from the origin to the inadmissibility, that is, from twenty days to thirty-three days. We already have a price for health that they claim to protect, thirteen days of difference, and with this a rule, the very derogation, unarmed, bearable by large companies and burdensome for small ones. Justice, because having produced only thirty layoffs in 2019 is the cause why it is now repealed with the wrong forms and procedure that we denounce - thirty layoffs in 2019-, and is that in politics the form is the bottom. Justice, because we want to denounce that this hasty and urgent application of the rule is not done, for example, to alleviate the situation of thousands of marginalized people in the economy and the system, pariahs committed in zombies who, due to the crisis of 2008, ran out of business, wealth or projects, being ruined, working on the marginality of black money through testaferros, without current accounts or the possibility of opening them, autonomous greedy of a second chance that do not deserve for your ladies and gentlemen the urgency with which they will ratify the derogation we are dealing with. In short, strength, temperance, prudence and justice to proclaim, without false debates, what matters to VOX, decent employment, the blinds that rise up joyfully, Spain that dawns to overcome each day, the companies that prosper, the entrepreneurs that invest, the workers that trace their future and that of their families with certain hope, and the solidarity of all Spaniards in the common good and decent employment. I'm warning navigators. With what we are dealing with today, with this failed, procedurally improper process, that turkey that teaches with ostentatiousness its fan, will become the worst of the bodies, because in this is the DNA of neocommunism of tambourines, queues of hunger and poverty, which commands in the road map of the Government - and with today's gesture we have an example - and they have neglected the minimum legislative criterion. From VOX we won't give them the option; at least we won't. Certainly, in politics - and on this occasion you will see it - the form is the bottom. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Aizcorbe. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito, speaking in the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group, spoke. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us once again to address a legislative initiative, namely the repeal of Article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute, which comes from Royal Decree-Law 4/2020, in so far as it eliminates, in the context of the causes of the objective dismissal, the still justified but intermittent lack of assistance at work, without prejudice to the fact that the repealed text has already excluded for that calculation several cases of medical and non-medical casualties. It is up to us, before that, also to examine the amendment to the whole of the VOX Group, which considers it appropriate to return to the wording before its repeal, because it considers - as the previous rapporteur has explained - that it would have negative effects. As far as this amendment is concerned - and I say it with all due respect - we shall vote against it, since, on the one hand, and as far as the text is concerned, it seeks to revert to an already debated wording whose rejection has been expressed by this Parliament and, on the other hand, it does not correspond to an appropriate use of the parliamentary means permitted by the Rules of Procedure to reproduce a debate which has already taken place at the time of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law. Having said that, it is also up to us, therefore, to analyse the feasibility and meaning of our vote in relation to the legislative initiative, but we also want to do so with regard to its handling from the perspective of the attitudes maintained by the different parliamentary blocs. Thus, in our intervention in the validation of Royal Decree-Law 4/2020, we were in favour of the proposed repeal and emphasized that the repeal of Article 52 (d) had little impact on labour relations, especially in the fundamental as a result of the constitutional doctrine, but also of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the judicial review of the proportionality judgment of the measures of objective dismissal. This led us to take that ad hoc measure, especially in view of its limited material impact, as the courts had already shown. Apart from other issues, what we wanted to highlight in that debate were the contents, far from other more media provisions, but also more unproductive since the prism of the agreement. With greater or lesser accuracy, we explain our position from the perspective that our participation in the parliamentary debate is directed more to vertebrate than to face, more to dialogue than to discuss, more to agreement than to mere confrontation, and it happens, in the opposite direction, that not all attitudes have been equal in this and other times. Even in legislative changes of such little significance, despite the word or bomb that some want to give it, what has been seen has been above all attitudes aimed at confrontation more with propaganda than with dialogue, even at the time of talking about the form of its processing, suggesting that this decision needed a debate. With all due respect, both the Government and the groups that support it maintained in this rostrum grandiose positions, completely removed from the limited effectiveness of this measure, and the response from other areas has not been less exaggerated and decontextualized, as we have just seen in the defence of the amendment to the whole; that is, that the content and significance of the debate from its material point of view is of little importance, only the media noise that the debate can produce. It is not difficult to see the existence of other debates of greater legal and social significance from the point of view of the change caused by the 2012 labour reform, which already anticipates that, if they take place within this House, they will only be subject to distorted treatment and attitudes that can only turn that land into a minefield. Even in times of sozobra like those we live in, parliamentaryism in this House is incapable of assuming its role not only as legislator but also as interlocutory and vertebral. As far as citizens are concerned, not only are solutions not offered, but crisping and confrontation are the characteristics of political discourse that bring to citizens an absolutely contradictory climate with the needs for calm and shared responsibilities that require a political time of pandemic. It is today's task to adopt this draft legislation repealing a paragraph of a precept through the procedure of Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, for a single reading. We will vote not on the amendment to the whole and the legislative text, but what is really more urgent is to repeal contradictory attitudes with the parliamentary function and to give content to what is provided for in Article 6 of the Constitution, in that it proclaims that the role of political parties is to be an instrument for political participation, not confrontation, not confrontation, but participation to build. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u200	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u201	Thank you, President. I promise you, I'll be fine now. For the third time, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Look, many Spanish families are looking to the future with fear because their livelihood hangs on a thread. From the minute one of this pandemic, in my parliamentary group, in Citizens, we set ourselves as a priority objective to save lives and then save jobs. We are now moving from the peak of the pandemic to a huge economic crisis that is rising before us. These are no minor challenges for our businesses, self-employed and workers, about whose welfare and working conditions this bill that we are debating now deals with. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the article to be repealed considers as dismissal for objective reasons the accumulation of lack of attendance at work, even if justified, and this is clearly intolerable. However, at the same time as this unjustifiable article was established, the same provision includes numerous exceptions, many of which you use to justify its repeal. This is what you do not tell, gentlemen of the government, I do not know if because you do not know what you want to repeal or because you are playing propaganda once again. And I'll explain myself. You have been spreading to the crowd that this article allowed you to justifiably dismiss for illness, when the same article also says that it does not apply in case of an accident at work, illness or non-work accident with a medical leave of more than twenty days or when the absence is due to a disease such as cancer or other similar in severity. You also said that this article 52 (d) allowed for dismissal by maternity or by reason of conciliation, when the provision itself states that it does not apply in the case of pregnancy, maternity, breastfeeding, for illnesses related to them or for the enjoyment of permits and leave related to the reconciliation of working life with the family and staff. So, what are we talking about, gentlemen of the government? As usual, from a government that plays an interest in confusion. The gentlemen of the Government announced that, if this article were repealed, dismissal in the event of, for example, maternity or paternity would at last be prohibited. And that is completely false, ladies and gentlemen, first, because our legislation already contemplates that assumption as wrongful dismissal - yes, gentlemen of the government, there were well-intentioned laws before We could exist - and second, because our legislation already provides for the nullity, not the inadmissibility, of such dismissals to protect workers in this circumstance. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious, let us treat the Spaniards as they are, elderly and responsible citizens. We are faced with a measure that in reality hardly passes from the cosmetic, a slight modification to which they have drawn a great political revenue with no less grandiose words. You have made her a whole flag, and she is nothing more than a mere patch, and perhaps for this reason you have to sell as a great conquest the repeal of a precept whose tangible consequence will be that the people who are in these circumstances may be entitled to compensation for thirty-three days instead of twenty, a great achievement, yes, but far removed from their great proclamations. From Citizens we have always argued that our labour legislation needs reforms to overcome decades-old patches and vices of unambitious bipartisanship, and to bring our labour market to the twenty-first century because all the measures that have been implemented so far have been incapable of correcting the structural problems that affect our labour market: high structural unemployment, precariousness, high temporality and low productivity. Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens supported the Royal Decree-Law repealing in its sole point article 52 (d) of the Workers' Statute, although we ask that it be treated as a bill so that we could have the opportunity to discuss the real reforms that our labour legislation needs, to solve the serious structural problems that it has been carrying out for decades and that neither the PP nor the PSOE, nor now We can, know how to solve. However, the urgent procedure and the one-reading procedure will unfortunately not allow this debate, so that there are no specific objections to the proposal already put forward in the Royal Decree-Law, we should not table amendments. Nor will we vote in favour of the amendment to the whole of VOX and vote positively on this royal decree which has already become a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u203	Thank you, Madam President. As we said in its day, when the Government brought about the validation of the Royal Decree-Law, this amendment to article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute seems necessary but insufficient. The health crisis, in our view, should not have been an impediment to repealing in its entirety labour reforms, as the government parties had undertaken to do, inter alia, in the investment agreement signed with the BNG. Among other things, because using the mechanisms of labour reform in the context of the social and economic crisis caused by the pandemic negatively affects the conditions of workers, but above all because, as we recalled in the March debate, the labour reforms carried out in 2010 by the PSOE and in 2012 by the People's Party were a severe blow to the working class, to which rights were taken away as a result of a process of precarious working conditions and the impoverishment of important sectors of wage earners because - and it should be noted - far from their theoretical objectives of promoting job creation, labour reforms led to job destruction, especially in the industrial sector, and also new forms of exploitation of workers through formulas such as ETTs, special employment centres, self-employed fakes or the use of subcontracting chains. All of this led to instability, low wages, labour poverty, because among the inheritance left to us by these reforms, especially in the years of the People's Party governments, there is evidence that having a job and a salary no longer guarantees leaving poverty. That is why, in this context of social and economic crisis generated by the COVID-19 pandemic, which, in the case of Galicia, overlaps with a previous deep industrial crisis, but which is now evident in all its brutality, it is more necessary and urgent than ever to repeal labour reforms, all and in their entirety, because maintaining them implies that we continue to live with job insecurity, instability, ERTS and also with EREs and dismissals unilaterally. By the way, Alcoa's recent decision to close the San Cibrao aluminium plant, which results in the dismissal of approximately a thousand workers, shows how labour reform harms the interests of the working class and even undermines the ability of public administrations to act to maintain economic activity. That is why we have put forward an initiative, a GNP, so that, as a matter of urgency, there will be a change that will restore the need to negotiate with workers' representatives the conditions of the employment regulations before collective redundancies and the subsequent approval of them by the labour authority, eliminating the possibility of unilateral collective redundancies on the part of companies, which would undoubtedly give the government more power to pressure and manage situations like this. That is why - and I conclude - we will vote against the amendment which seeks to reduce the rights of workers, but we note that this timely change is not enough because it does not solve the serious deterioration of working conditions, wages and, therefore, the lives of the working classes in our country. That is why we hope that this necessary measure will not really remain in an image operation that slows down or ends up leaving behind what really needs to be done, which is to repeal labour reforms.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u204	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Lord of VOX has made reference to the four cardinal virtues, moral virtues: strength, temperance, prudence and justice. Well, I'll use two: strength and temperance. Strength and temperance to affirm that VOX follows the famous quote: 'All for the people, but without the people'. In this case of a despotism, but not illustrated, little illustrated. Sometimes VOX says it defends early Spain, but early Spain sometimes falls ill and asks for a discharge, and the doctor justifiably grants it, and some entrepreneurs, who do not deserve that name, fire those people who had asked for that justified discharge. Justice: the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 18 January 2018, when it clearly states that this violates the right to non-discrimination on grounds of disability. And even if, as VOX's representative has said, it has only affected thirty people, it would be injustice; an injustice is injustice, even if it only affects one person. Moral virtues. And I'm done. Prudence, prudence to make a measured intervention in this case with reference to the virtues, so that the president does not see herself again in the obligation to draw my attention. Thank you very much. And, of course, I will vote such a big no to this amendment to the whole of VOX. Of course.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u207	Good afternoon, President. Thank you. Let's vote no, of course. The truth is, sometimes we understand that people see us with bad eyes. What is ignominious is that this article existed; if a person is sick, he is sick; if he has a justified discharge, he is justified. We have already voted not to do so in the form of a bill and, of course, we are going to vote negatively on any amendment because there is nothing to amend. If someone is sick he cannot go to work and he cannot be fired for an objective cause; we find it miserable to do so. Having said that, we also do not understand how an amendment - neither in form nor in substance - can be tabled when the proposer says - and rightly so - that it affects only thirty people. Well, that's too much, that's too much. What are we doing here, please? Obviously, we would also have liked to have brought in other aspects of labour reform that are equally urgent because they are really very harmful to the working class, and not this royal decree-law because it is regrettable that this article of the Workers' Statute exists, but it was not widely used, since employers had other articles that were much easier to fire those who wanted it, which is what labor reform has done. So let's vote no, and then a straight yes and move on quickly; let's go to other aspects of labor reform and the Workers' Statute much more important and much more necessary to defend the working class everywhere. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mrs Saavedra Muñoz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u209	Thank you, President. Good evening. This is my first speech in plenary after this pandemic situation. First of all, I would like to express my condolences and the solidarity of my parliamentary group with the people who have suffered the most from this drama and those who have lost family and friends. For me, it is an honour today to defend the position of the United Nations. We can support this bill that repeals the objective dismissal for justified inadequacies of attendance at work. This bill eliminates one of the most damaging aspects of the 2012 labour reform of the People's Party, and this repeal was already envisaged in the coalition government agreement. This bill ends with an injustice that shames us as a country and exemplifies a way of doing politics, of acting in politics, which was chosen in the previous financial crisis: to precarise and impoverish the working people and to rescue the rich, the bank, the highways and to give tax gifts to the millionaires. In 2012 the People's Party imposed this measure that allows people to be fired with a few days off justified to - they said - save the economy. They blamed the workers, the workers and the families, whom they accused - they accused us - of living above our possibilities, while they promoted a tax amnesty for the rich defrauders, they subtracted millions from public health to give them to the private, they went up the university fees expelling people who could not pay them and leaving them out of college, or they practically gave public housing to vulture funds, which they threw people out of their homes. All this while a legion of corrupts among their ranks stole public money at full hands and took it to tax havens. It is a very clear example of ideological political decisions, as you like to say about our proposals, exactly neoliberal ideology: prioritizing the interests of a few, placing people, health and common goods at the service of the economic benefit of a few privileged. It should be made clear that the unjustified absence from work already has in our system specific penalties, such as disciplinary dismissal, so that Article 52 (d) which we want to repeal penalizes justified and therefore essential absences. Therefore, the violation of rights is tremendous and it does affect - contrary to what you have said - people with long-term illnesses, it does involve discrimination on the grounds of disability, and it does affect and penalize especially women who assume a greater burden in terms of conciliation or care activities, so this rule generates discrimination on the basis of gender. In addition, there are complaints of dismissals arguing this article 52 that cover up situations of union persecution. Ladies and gentlemen, already before the October ruling of the Constitutional Court, which endorsed the dismissal of a woman worker for justifiable job losses - which shocked many decent people - we all knew for people in our environment and for people in the health field that many workers, after the labour reform, avoided asking for sick leave for fear of dismissal. Medical personnel report that there are people who apply for voluntary leave for fear of losing their job or situations in which, as a result of not taking the leave, the disease progresses to the end of a much worse picture or with chronic diseases. These things happen in the day-to-day life of the working people in Spain. All this, in addition to the danger of people being forced to go to work being sick and being able to infect others in their environment. In these days we are particularly aware of this collective responsibility. What would have happened if this rule remained in force in the current pandemic situation? Ladies and gentlemen, today with this repeal we have the opportunity to do justice to a terrible violation of the right to health and the lives of workers. When from the right and the right is defended a measure like this that we now want to repeal, when you refuse to repeal and, moreover, speak of virtues, what conception do you have of the dignity of the person? Do you think that working people are just labor, are they merchandise? Do you understand that the economy is above people's health and lives? Ladies and gentlemen of VOX and PP, do you think it's all right that there are people with broken bones who refuse to call them in so they don't get laid? Or is it okay for a woman to be penalized for going to school to pick up a child with a fever or her father with a broken hip? Or don't you worry about this because maybe you pay for these services? Gentlemen of the PP and VOX, today they have an opportunity to show that they really defend that early-morning Spain, those people who work and who can be dismissed for being unjustifiably absent from work; or if they defend the privileged who do not depend on their work, that 1% of the rich who live on income and who pay the minimum of taxes. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to repeal the form of dismissal for justifiable losses, in addition to being contrary to fundamental rights, by a requirement to comply with European law. From the United Nations We can be very clear about who we are and the interests we defend. We want to be the lobby of that 99% of the population, of the normal, working people, who are not on the boards of the big corporations and who need public policies to defend and protect their rights. Today in this House and with this bill, if it comes forward, we have an opportunity to show that politics, so detested today because it often translates into a sham and spectacle, politics with capitals serves to put life at the center, so that all social, labor and economic organization are at the service of the person and not the other way around. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u211	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing the final adoption of this bill and we are pointing out that the Group of the European People's Party is not going to oppose it, and we are not going to oppose it, because considering that many of you want to repeal market freedom, the Crown, because you want to even monitor the thinking of the Spaniards, because repealing a point in the Workers' Statute that has scarcely been used is the least bad thing you can do to the Spaniards today. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, you are compulsive consumers of headlines, so perfect, all for you. Keep making data, resurrecting dead and making a deal with the terrorists because reality, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with you anymore. The reality is that there are more than 100 companies in this country that these days meet at a big business summit to which you and your government have not been invited; a summit at which companies are telling us without saying that with you, without you and above you, the engine of this country will continue to work. Listen to them, learn something, because about how to create headlines you know a lot, but about how to create jobs you know nothing. [[Applauds]] Look, I think what you know most about is ghosts, I say it because you're always with ghost stories, dictatorship, coup d'état. Turn your head, and I won't tell you, so that you don't stress, that you turn it to the right, don't worry. Turn your head and look forward because the future of the workers of this country is there and not behind. Leave the ghosts of past presidents alone, ladies and gentlemen. Stop using Rajoy's labor reform as a threat. For the same reason, you will meet one day with Angela Merkel or Barack Obama himself and will remind you that they applauded this reform as - and I quote textually - a step forward. Look ahead, too, because if you look back, you're going to stumble over the unemployment figures left by the governments of Felipe González and Zapatero and you're going to get hurt, because those figures hurt a lot. Look, I haven't calculated, but I think former President Rajoy should still be preparing the opposition when Article 52 of the Workers' Statute was in force, and it's rare, with all that you like to look back, that you have never realized that this article has been in force continuously since 1980, has been with us for forty years and has been with the governments of González, Zapatero and Sánchez. I imagine you haven't noticed until now, and it's normal. Now that they have an army of state wage advisors manufacturing headlines, I'm sure some of them have proposed this mixture of lies and nonsense that means that article 52(d) of the Workers' Statute was invented by Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] But, look, that reality with which your Government has little to do with is committed to removing their reason. According to the data we know, in 2019 there were only thirty occasions on which this precept was applied; that is, 0.0001 % of redundancies in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember Adolfo Suárez? For he was the President of Spain in 1980, when article 52 of the statute stipulated that the contract could be extinguished because of the lack of work attendance, even justified but intermittent, with a number of exceptions that you surely know. The new Workers' Statute - the year 1995, the Government of Felipe González - does not modify the article. In 1999, the Act on the Conciliation of the Family and Work Life of Workers amends section 52(d) to provide greater protection for women, including as an exception the risk during pregnancy, diseases caused by pregnancy, childbirth or breastfeeding. In 2004 - Mr Rodríguez Zapatero - it was established that it could not be dismissed despite the absences, if these were motivated by the physical or psychological situation resulting from gender-based violence, which is very good for us and we fully support, but no trace of the repeal of this fateful article 52 so far. We continue with the modification. With the Labour Reform of the Socialist Party in 2010, what Mr Zapatero did was to tighten the conditions for the worker by reducing the requirement of general absenteeism of the workforce from 5% to 2.5%. In short, instead of repealing article 52, it did facilitate dismissal. Well, by the end of this chronological review, we are in 2010. We have been with this article for thirty years and there has not yet been a reform of the work of the People's Party in this story, as we have seen with completely objective data and not with nauseating speeches like that of the spokesman for Podemos, who I think wants to laugh at the intelligence of the Spanish. [[Applauds]] Those cases you've reported are just in your head. As we have seen, the 2012 labour reform is not responsible for the content of the precept. What the Labour Reform of the People's Party did is to give greater guarantees to workers by making them not compute medical treatments for cancer or serious illness. [[Applauds]] In short, it should be remembered that when in 2010 today's president, Mr Sánchez, voted in favour of labour reform, it already included Article 52(d). That is why I ask you to be consistent, to discover the healthy attitude of telling the truth, and even if it is only when you speak of important things, such as employment, those killed by the coronavirus or the pacts that you have in hiding with the terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen, almost 800,000 jobs have been destroyed in Spain from 8 March to the present, but what you really care about is an article that has been in the Workers' Statute since the song Tell me about you, the Pecos, was number one of the forty majors. Really? When we saw a million Spaniards without charging the ERTE for months, what really worries you is that forty years ago on Sundays families met to watch the TV show 625 lines? Three hundred thousand self-employed people have been denied an ICO credit and have six hundred thousand self-employed people waiting for the grant of that loan while paying monthly all the bills, but what is really in a hurry is an article that has been in this statute since the kids ate the famous Cosmos gums. [[applause]] I'm done, Your Honor. A Government is defined by its priorities and those of you have gone from being afraid to laugh, because when a Government and its governors are concerned about different things, that Government is finished. And that of Pedro Sánchez is today a finished government, which will soon be remembered as the worst that could happen to a country at its worst. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u212	Thank you, Mr. Movellán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cancela Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, when I came to the rostrum, I was thinking that I had two options in relation to the tone of the intervention. I can make a constructive intervention and also respond to the call made by the PNV spokesman - to be constructive, to respond to the mandate of the Constitution that we political parties are to build, to dialogue, to provide a service to the citizenry - or to use the same tone and forms as the lords of VOX and that the lords of the People's Party, but, as we are in disarray and this is the party of dialogue, which tends to reach out to them, we reach out to them again, ladies and gentlemen, but it is impossible, they do not want, they cannot. [[Applauds]] But, even if you don't want to come in, something has to be said, something, a little bit, from the constructive spirit always. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] Mr Aizcorbe of VOX says that our roots and our DNA, that of this government of progressive coalition, are in neocommunism. Let me clarify where the roots and DNA of this parliamentary group, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, are, with more than 140 years of history. Do you know where he is? In the workers' struggle. There's our DNA. [[Applauds]] And it's still in force, it's still in force. The spokesman for the Popular Parliamentary Group has gone back to Felipe González and Zapatero. He said they're the problem. The problem is not the labour standards of Felipe González and Zapatero; the problem is his 2012 labour reform. That's the problem. [[Applauds]] That's where the problem is. [[Rumors]] And now let's get to the point. Today is a tremendously important day, because we finally restore rights to the working class. We returned the legal certainty snatched by the Labour Reform of the People's Party, which broke the balance between parts of the labour relationship, because, ladies and gentlemen, traditionally, Spanish labour law was tuitious to the weakest part of the labour relationship and you broke up with that. What we are doing today, what this Government is doing today, is restoring a question of justice, a question of labour law that protects the weakest part of the labour relationship. [[Applauds]] With you, ladies and gentlemen, the working people of this country could be dismissed indiscriminately for lack of assistance at work, even if those lack of assistance were justified. In this way, dismissal operated automatically, dismissal without cause, when in our legal and labour law order the dismissal was always causal, because, if not, ladies and gentlemen, it should be null and void. That's what you missed and made it easier for yourself. Then, they say that there is lack of protection in the business sphere. But why? The spokesman for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations said so very well. We can, but if absenteeism is the cause of disciplinary dismissal, if the employer can act when absenteeism is unjustified and, of course, is accredited. Therefore, there is no defencelessness. Do you know what is, ladies and gentlemen, with the repeal of this precept now? There is social justice, legal certainty and compliance with European Union rules, because you obviously have a European directive to observe and comply with, because it is binding, and you do not say it on purpose - I do not say the word, but it is understood -; on purpose, knowingly. That's better. He likes it better, doesn't he? Knowingly. [[Applauds]] With regard to ILO Convention 158, for whom is this derogation? Who do you favor? They say we're talking about lies. Well, let's talk about the groups he favors, which are paradoxically the most vulnerable. Oh, but you don't care about that! They are not interested in talking about vulnerability, minimum living income or raising the interprofessional minimum wage. We understand, but we're going to explain it to you anyway. First, it favours persons with disabilities or basic chronic diseases who tend to incur a higher number of short-term medical discharges as a result of the pathologies they suffer. This has been pointed out by the High Court of Justice of the European Union in repeated judgments - and you know it, ladies and gentlemen - and, moreover, it has ruled that this is indirect discrimination on the grounds of disability. Disability, vulnerability. It also favours other groups of people with long-term illnesses and dependents. Ah, women! Women workers with dependants, because they are always women. Women in care account for more short-term absences from work. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are also talking about indirect gender discrimination. I know they don't like to hear it, but it's about gender. [[Applauds]] So, I recap very quickly. Fundamental rights of working people, especially those with disabilities, chronic or long-term illnesses, are guaranteed and dependent caretakers, who are working women caregivers, are protected. It provides legal certainty and helps to restore balance in the employment relationship. It adapts the rules to the European Union and to the international order and to any business decision taken under this repealed article shall automatically be declared void the dismissal. With regard to the amendment to the whole of the VOX Group, I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in substance and form we are going to vote no. I'm sure you understand. [[Rumors]] In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that this is a fundamental step, but it is the first. Get used to it. [[Applauds]] Then there will be the recovery of the ultraactivity of collective agreements, the prevalence of the sector agreement on the company agreement, the strengthening of collective bargaining, the contractual causality, the regulation of subcontracting so that there is no fraud,... We've got a lot of work to do. How are we not going to work with all the work we have? That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u214	Mrs. Cancela, I'd have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u215	I'm done, President. Thank you. I just want to tell you something. The most representative business and trade union organizations in this country are teaching us a lesson: social dialogue and constructive spirit, putting the general interest before the conflict and the partisan interests. And I invite the main opposition party, the People's Party, to pick up that glove, the glove that was launched yesterday by the most important companies in this country, which were talking about stability, dialogue, building and not chrispation. Why don't they? [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] I will tell you one thing, if you are up to the standards of citizenship, you will see that if you take that glove, ladies and gentlemen, you will be useful, and you will see how good it feels to be useful to this great country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u216	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cancela. We vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. Vote on the point relating to the direct and read-only processing of the bill repealing the objective dismissal for lack of labour assistance provided for in article 52(d) of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October 2015 from Royal Decree-Law 4/2020 of 18 February. The amendment to the whole alternative text tabled by the VOX Group was voted on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 112 plus 232 votes in favour, 344; in favour, 18 plus 31 votes in favour, 49; against, 63 plus 144 votes in favour, 207; abstentions, 31 plus 57 votes in favour, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-06-16-CD200616.u218	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from 10:45 p.m. today until 2:00 p.m. tomorrow the remaining items on the agenda can be voted on electronically. The vote on these points will take place at the end of tomorrow's sitting. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and forty-five minutes of the night.
