ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the session is open. We begin with the point concerning the consideration of proposals for a law of popular legislative initiative and, in particular, the proposal for a law on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health facilities and other areas. The Socialist Group has called for the use of the turn in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Prieto Nieto. [[Rumors]] To start the plenary, I will ask you, please, a little silence. [[Pause]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, good afternoon. After the very hard months that we have lived and the difficult days that we live and will still live, we in my parliamentary group are very much aware of all the victims of the pandemic. I will therefore be allowed my first words to be again in memory of all the people who have died because of the COVID. [[Applauds]] I launch from this rostrum a sincere message of support and affection for your family and friends. I would like to highlight the work of those who make up the courageous and effective health army. They are women and men who give their best in the exercise of their profession, even at risk for their own health. In circumstances of great tension and enormous complexity, they have been and are a great example for society as a whole. It is a gratitude and recognition that we want to uniqueize in the nurses and nurses of our country. You have been on the front line caring for us, healing us and saving our lives, working with enormous generosity and spirit of sacrifice, at the limit of your physical and psychic strength and even with your lives, with the solidarity that drives you to help the weakest. I now move on to our vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law on nurse ratios, taking into account its origin as a popular legislative initiative. Our group undertakes, through amendments, to work to enable legislative measures in this field to be taken that better conform to the competition framework. Let me congratulate the nurses and nurses of Spain in the person of Don Manuel Cascos Fernández for this ILP, this popular legislative initiative, endorsed with 660,000 firms of nurses, nurses, citizens, citizens and patient groups. It shows a commitment that is also ours, this commitment is to guarantee and provide security to the patient in the health care and care he receives, regardless of where he lives or his economic situation. This is social justice, ladies and gentlemen. We have experienced the worst pandemic in the last hundred years, we are plagued by a health crisis that has exposed in these months health and social suffering, and has also exposed the seams of our public health system. We have encountered a system thinned by cut-off policies throughout successive governments of the People's Party, of the right, where the need for nurses and nurses has become evident. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, the purpose of the new Isabel Zendal hospital is a clear example of forced transfers, but what is this? Is that how you manage, ladies and gentlemen of the right, with forced transfers? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] [[Rumors]] The conclusions of the Commission for the Social and Economic Reconstruction of Spain, approved by the majority of the groups present in the Chamber... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u4	... last July - well, with the exception of VOX, who withdrew and did not want to participate in this Commission - agreed to an increase in the number of public health personnel until we were on average in the developed countries in terms of the number of health professionals per inhabitant. With regard to primary care, the Ministry of Health has promoted the strategic framework for primary and community care. This reflects the need to adapt the ratios to the new area of primary care to be defined. We believe from my parliamentary group that, as is also reflected in the strategic framework, it is necessary not only to define ratios but also to scale the staffing of primary care teams. We must establish posts of all specialties and professions, both health and non-health, to meet the needs of the population. We must also establish criteria for the number of people enrolled in a primary care team, taking into account mainly the demographic, epidemiological and socio-economic characteristics of the population. In any case, we believe that any initiative taken in this regard must seek to eliminate the differences that currently exist between the Autonomous Communities from the outset. Far from being a purely numerical issue, not having an adequate ratio has a serious impact on health care and patient care. Ladies and gentlemen, an adequate allocation of patients per nurse or per nurse in our health and social health facilities would improve patient safety, as it is directly related to mortality and morbidity. It would certainly resolve delays in health care and provide a more agile and secure response to emergency situations. But above that, it would even mean improving humanization in health care and care. Nurses fighting, I know you're listening to me. This group of nurses from my land knows well what the precariousness of the infirmary in Galicia means and its impact on the health of the citizenry!,, and there they continue, nurses fighting, fighting. [[applause]] The patient is the center of the National Health System and the patient is by and for whom all health professions work, as we have been taught and given examples in this pandemic. This popular legislative initiative expresses the commitment of the whole nursing profession to ensuring patient safety, as we also understand in our parliamentary group. I am finalizing, ladies and gentlemen, because, as I anticipated at the beginning, you will have our vote in favour of the consideration. We will vote yes; we will vote yes with the height of vision we demand from the rest of the groups, although we know that this support leads us to a scenario that will not be easy because the complexity of competitive architecture necessarily involves the autonomous communities. This initiative will have an immediate impact on the autonomous communities, which are responsible for the management of health care through health services. Certainly, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System will be an important actor, but we understand that competition issues are not enough to deny us consideration. For example, military health is also on the table, which has its peculiarities and which, like the competition issue, will have to be taken into account in the final regulation. We will vote yes, ladies and gentlemen, because the Socialist Group wants, once again, to find consistency between what we say and what we do. We will vote yes, ladies and gentlemen, so that those applause that we give you in Spain at eight o'clock in the afternoon every day from our windows and from our balconies will become facts and improvements. [[Applauds]] We will vote yes for all those fourth grade nursing students who, with this generosity that characterizes this profession, volunteered to work in the worst moments of the pandemic, for them and for them. Thank you to the nurses, thank you for your work now and for your work always. We will vote yes, ladies and gentlemen. You count on our unconformity. We don't resign when we have the chance to make things better than we do better. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs Prieto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco asks for the floor]] Mrs Vázquez, there is a turn in favour and it has been consumed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The rest of the shifts are in position-fixing unless there was a turn against. I understand that's not the case. Don't you? [[Denials]] Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In this 2020 that the World Health Organization declared weeks before it began as a year of nursing for the bicentenary of Florence Nightingale's birth, I would like to begin by thanking the promoters of this proposed law on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health centers and other areas for their efforts. In the person of Mr. Cascos Fernández I greet especially all those who have been architects and collaborators of this popular legislative initiative. As a professional colleague and also as a veteran member of the union who has promoted the massive collection of signatures, let me be proud of the tenacious and anonymous work done by so many people and that should be appreciated on a double side. A first aspect because it is about ensuring the health of the Spaniards, which is a top priority and, being aware of this, the prolonged and tragic contagion of the coronavirus that we are suffering and that continues to put in check the world has revalued more if that right is available. Consequently, we are committed to having the appropriate means of health care to ensure and protect their health, as reflected in article 43 of the Spanish Constitution in an explicit and unequivocal manner. The second aspect of this popular legislative initiative is also related to the priority in health care, but it highlights the nursing task as a key, responsible and indispensable element and figure in the management and administration of resources during the provision of health care. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a good initiative, very well proposed, which aims to have a greater capacity to ensure the safety of patients, as well as to improve the quality of care provided by the nurse, by better adjusting the workloads to which so far there has been no regulation in this area. To put it very briefly - this is the foundation and the substance of what is proposed in this initiative -, in Spain we need nursing professionals. And we need a lot of nursing professionals. I would also like to stress that this initiative comes from years ago, in particular from the XII Legislature, so it is fair to acknowledge that those who promoted it and promoted it in times long before the health emergency and therefore already warned about the shortage of personnel. In other words, they were able to anticipate the problem we have because of the obvious lack of nursing professionals. Congratulations, therefore, to those who were able to appreciate the magnitude of the problem and anticipate an unquestionable need because we are faced with a palmary need. Just check the indicators. Today, a decisive step is being taken in the project to provide us with pioneering legislation in Spain, legislation that will make us one of the first European and world countries to incorporate into its regulatory framework a safe and adequate ratio of patients for each nursing professional and that this is reflected in all hospitals, health centres and other health and social health centres without distinction of ownership, whether public or private. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures compared to many of the countries similar to Spain put us in the queue in the nursing supply. That explains why the tragedy of the COVID-19 has been a brutal added to the stress to which all health personnel are subjected and which includes emotional pressure for the terrible experiences of which they are participants, physical fatigue, concern for contagion, fear of taking him home and discouragement. Allow me, in any case, to make reference to the exciting State tribute to the victims of the pandemic that took place last July and to recall the words of the nurse chief of emergency at Vall d'Hebron Hospital when she evoked before all of Spain the hard work in the fight against COVID-19: Let us never forget the lesson learned, she asked the public authorities that morning, Aroa López Martín. The consideration of this bill by Congress at the request of popular initiative must also be one of the consequences of that call for attention. Patients and nurses have complementary interests. Some want to recover their health and the others want to work more safely. Hence the sensitivity and correctness of the proposal to pose quality with better care for patients and greater safety to provide the best treatment and care during the disease. Spain has to move towards another 130 000 professionals to accommodate the national nursing ratio to international recommendations. We are also far behind the Community average, since in our country the ratio is about five nurses per thousand inhabitants, while in Europe the average is just under nine. Even in Spain, when talking about this issue, there is also a problem of territorial inequality. Let me refer to Asturias because in my community of origin we are also very detached in this. We would need the Asturians of the order of 2400 new nurses to approach the European average and incorporate professionals into the National Health System who respond to this optimal parameter, to that indispensable ratio that is reflected and promoted in the content of a text structured in six titles, a transitional provision, an additional provision and a final provision, a law that, as has already been said, is promoted with the aim of improving health protection. I conclude, Madam President, by reiterating that this proposal for a law of popular initiative is essential for Spain and I will give you my favourable vote, which is at the same time a testimony of gratitude which I extend also to the nursing and the rest of the healthcare staff. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u8	Thank you, President. On behalf of our parliamentary group and before commenting on the initiative, we would also like to take this opportunity to join the recognition for the work carried out by the entire group of health and social health professionals, nursing professionals and the rest, and to express our gratitude for the efforts that are being made throughout this health crisis. On the other hand, before laying down a position on the proposal for a law, we must also say that we believe that the efforts made by the promoters of this initiative to defend the interests of the collective they represent by using the various channels they can have, including this popular legislative initiative that enables popular participation, are commendable. Having said that, it is now up to us to look at the initiative that brings us to this House and see if it really deserves to be dealt with. Our parliamentary group is going to reject the initiative because, if it succeeds in the parliamentary process, it would involve a considerable invasion and interference in the existing competition area. Mrs Prieto, you know perfectly well that this initiative is unconstitutional. Throughout the proposal for a law, as Mr Martínez said, there is a reference to the constitutional text, to article 43 which refers to the protection of the health of individuals, but at no time do they refer to Title VIII which establishes the territorial organization of the State. Nor do they cite article 149.1.16 (a), which reserves the State the capacity and competence in the field of health to establish the general basis of health. However, establishing and fixing the ratios of nursing staff as intended by this proposal of law in no case - in no case, and you know it well - can be considered to be a general basis of health. No way. In fact, the decision to establish and fix the ratios of nursing staff, as of any other professional group - because, to set ourselves to establish ratios, we could also establish ratios of anesthesiologists, doctors, surgeons, nursing assistants or collators - would be confined to the field of human resources management of organizations and health services. That is the area to which the proposal that is being put forward must be confined. The management of the human resources of health services and organizations will meet scientific and material criteria from proximity and from immediacy in order to respond to existing demands with quality. That is what needs to be done: respect for the area of competence and allow each competent body to take decisions. In this bill we are debating today, it reserves itself to Congress, to the Government and to a possible or proposed interterritorial commission of nursing ratios the ability to decide throughout the State what are to be the ratios that are allowed and that is a clear competitive invasion. That makes it very clear that this proposal we have here is unconstitutional. In addition, it not only refers to the public health field, but also aims to establish nursing ratios in the public and private health and social health fields. If there is a clear competitive invasion in the health field, the greater is the competitive invasion in the socio-health field in which the State has no competence. In our case, it would be up to the Basque Autonomous Community to dictate the rules in this area and to the historical territories to implement those rules. The competition field must be respected, each thing must be called by its name, which does not mean that it is left with the quality of the service it provides. It is excessive to attempt to fix the ratios of nursing staff through a rule with a law rank, as is being proposed with this measure. That is why our parliamentary group rejects the process of this initiative. As we said at the outset, our commitment to the management of our institutions is clear. We do not understand that political formations in this House which have responsibilities in the management of health organizations in different autonomous communities - you have them, you have them, and others who are out there also have them - support the processing of this initiative. The autonomous communities in which you are governing, in the area of your responsibilities for implementation and management, do not comply with what is being proposed here. It is political hypocrisy not to do where it is appropriate to do what is to be done and to put here, where it is not appropriate, the processing of this initiative. It is not up to Congress or the Government or any other committee to decide this issue. It is a proposal that needs to be put forward, I insist, in other bodies. We have health management responsibilities and we have nursing ratios of the highest in the state, which will not lead us to be quiet, but to continue working to improve them and to ensure that, from the management of health and social health systems, in the historical territories, we are able to respond effectively and correctly to the needs and the new reality existing in Basque society. But our responsibility in this Congress is to analyze the proposed initiative, see if it respects the existing competition framework and, therefore, decide and fix our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u10	Thank you, President. I cannot begin this intervention without thanking all the health and skin workers who are leaving themselves to cope with this pandemic. If we were at normal times, that guest gallery would be full of them all, who have brought this popular legislative initiative to this House, and we would be here to applaud them all. Instead, we have already heard how walnuts prefer to keep talking about their competition, their competition and their competition, and to keep picking nuts, of course, instead of talking about something that is for the good of all Spaniards. But we already know that you left that debate a long time ago. Many formulas have been used to express the great work that all health professionals do in these long months - they are already too many - but it can be said that health professionals in general, and those of nursing in particular, have been doing what they have always done, which is to take care of us. In these dark days, where the danger that comes upon us above all is greater than in normal circumstances, those who care for us have much more work to do, a burden of work that only with sacrifice and an insurmountable vocation can carry out. The word vocation is the key word when we talk about nursing. There are so many highly vocational professions that can match that of nursing, but none can overcome it. The vocation of caring has a profession, that of nurse or nurse. Those who have been hospitalized have received the care of the nurses, and those who have experienced it know well what we are talking about. All Spaniards have had some time of their lives dealing with a nurse or nurse. That is why this popular legislative initiative is an initiative of all Spaniards, accepted by many Spaniards, by more than 700,000 Spaniards, who know who their nurses are, who know what those who care for them do. When the Nursing Union has moved to bring this initiative to Congress, it has met with all the necessary support. And I think this is not easy, many of you know that this is not easy, but it is perfectly possible when what is asked is just and when what is asked is also seen with great affection and sympathy for citizenship. This popular legislative initiative has had to come back to Congress because of the premature dissolution of the Courts in the previous legislature - many of your ladies and gentlemen already know it - and it is true that these measures are being delayed and taken into consideration. It now comes again coinciding also with a crisis, with a pandemic that tests our entire health system, and, if the structure, organization and forecasting is true that they have failed, there is a part of the system that has kept it standing, avoiding the collapse, and it is precisely the health professionals, among which nurses and nurses must highlight in a very special way. The entire system has been subjected to the toughest test. Poorly protected professionals, with very high rates of infection, all of them have worked tirelessly, with risks, without looking at them, precisely because of that vocation we were talking about taking care of ourselves, caring for all citizens. And it has even more merit if we consider that the nursing ratio in Spain is low if we compare with other countries in our environment. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the origin of this ILP. We need to remember all the excellent nursing professionals who have had to emigrate to other countries because in their own country, in Spain, they have not been able to fulfill their dream of serving and helping others, all citizens. How nice if they'd been by our side these months! And I also want to have a very special memory for all the nursing professionals of our Armed Forces, clearly insufficient and badly treated, poorly paid above all, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative aims to establish criteria for the application of these ratios - we have already talked about this - and I believe that it is crucial that there be equal ratios, it is a principle of equality between all Spaniards. Of course it is a competition problem, of course there are competition problems, Your Honor, of course it is. But does it not seem reasonable to you that there is a treatment, a system that is capable of sustaining equality for all citizens? Don't you think it's okay that there are ratios that are minimal? Listen, then you in your community apply whatever you want, subdue them, give more services, give more quality in services, they will thank all your citizens, but there are minimums for all equals. This is what this initiative is about, not rights and competences. You have not understood it, as always; you never understand anything about it. But we also believe that these ratios should not only give the medical part, but also the social part. And there are a lot of professions in which professional ratios that are associated with our country's National Health System should also be handled. That is why this initiative, a legislative initiative signed by all citizens, Your Honor, not only by those who do not live in their autonomous community, but also by many of those who are in their autonomous community and, of course, of the rest of them. We, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, know how important and just this claim is, and we will therefore support it, as we have of course communicated to the associations and professionals who have initiated this legislative initiative, not only because it is good for nursing, not because it is good for nurses, not because it is good for the National Health System, which is, of course, good for it, but, ladies and gentlemen, because this initiative is good for all citizens, so that all Spaniards have more people who want to dedicate their lives to taking care of us. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u12	Thank you, Madam President. We welcome the idea of establishing an appropriate ratio of nursing staff to patients to ensure adequate and safe care. In fact, the bipartite government in which the BNG participated established in Galicia a ratio of one nurse or nurse in primary care for every 1250 inhabitants, a decision that was quickly eliminated by the People's Party once it assumed the Galician government in 2009. In addition, it is evident that further progress is needed in improving the health systems and the care quality of patients, especially where, as a result of cuts, privatization and precariousness, there has been a continuing deterioration. In my country, in Galicia, the ratio of nursing staff per 1000 inhabitants is 5.3, below that of the Spanish State, 6.5, and a long distance from the European one, which is 8.8. These data were provided at the beginning of this year by the Galician group Enfermeiras en Loita precisely to denounce the precarious situation in which they carry out their work, with large doses of public service spirit to compensate for the poor performance of the Galego Health Service, which involves a lack of material and human resources, in addition to a very high percentage of temporality. They will therefore understand that we share the objective of this proposal. However, there are elements that we are concerned about and want to point out. Firstly, we see it inconsistent that the proposal seeks to regulate these ratios by law, particularly when, in particular, it regulates only nursing staff, rather than also medical staff and other groups necessary for the proper functioning of health systems. Beyond that, we believe that a laudable goal like this will find it difficult to implement if the troop replacement rate is not eliminated, as proposed by the BNG approved this House in July as a recommendation to the Government, which, however, failed to comply with the recent approval of the State General Budgets. The way of temporary recruitment for functions that are not always implies the precariousness of jobs and therefore affects the quality of the public service. And, thirdly, we are once again faced with a proposal for a rule that invades the autonomous competences in this matter and adds to that constant centralizing impulse that we see in this House, shared to the right and left. It should be recalled that Galicia has the competence not only to provide the service, but also for the legislative development and implementation of the basic health legislation of the State. And not everything can be considered basic legislation, because in that case we would be nullifying, de facto, the autonomous powers. The BNG is in favour of this debate, because it seems to us to be a prerequisite for improving public health, but we believe that this must be done in accordance with the competences established.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u14	Thank you, President. Today we take into consideration the proposed law resulting from a popular legislative initiative on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health facilities and other areas. First, I take this turn to thank once again for the work done by health professionals and for the services provided before the COVID and mainly during the pandemic. I believe that we have been taught a great deal of professionalism by all citizens. I am sure that the initiative we are dealing with today is based on the best of intentions, to designate minimum ratios of nurses to ensure patient safety, to improve the effectiveness of citizens' rights with regard to health benefits, to strengthen the right to health protection, to allow better planning of human resources; in short, we are talking about the organization of these. The organization, operation of personal and material resources of each of the health services is a competence that belongs exclusively to the Autonomous Communities. It is not because we say so, it is regulated in the General Health Law 14/1986 and in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. As a result, this bill involves an invasion of the powers delegated to the Autonomous Communities in the area of health. I believe that everyone here agrees that we must improve the ratio of nurses to patients and reach the European average of 7.8 nurses per 1000 inhabitants. But the fundamental problem of health today is not to define and establish ratios of nurses, technicians in auxiliary nursing care, doctors or collators. The problem is to have more financial resources and more funding so that the autonomous communities, which have the competencies, can hire nurses, hire doctors and auxiliaries, build a new hospital or primary care centres. This issue, with the corresponding funding, must be addressed by the Autonomous Communities, which have the competences and the ones that best know their own realities in managing health. That is why we cannot vote in favour of it, for a simple and purely competitive reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always a pleasure for our group to be able to discuss initiatives that have been transferred directly to Congress by organised civil society. This popular initiative precisely allows us to bring a central issue to debate in order to understand and address the challenges facing our health systems. I'm talking about health systems, not health systems. It is the debate on the shortage of human and material resources that they suffer and, therefore, all citizens who are users at one time or another of these systems. Indeed, our model suffers from a clear lack of healthcare professionals, especially nurses, just as we suffer from a pay system that makes it very difficult for us to retain talent, which in many cases prefers to go to work in other countries in our environment. We share the real need to drive mechanisms to ensure adequate care for the patient, as well as decent conditions for the exercise of the profession. The pandemic has taught us precisely that the health system is the first and most important safety net that we can give ourselves as a society to face the challenges of the uncertain future presented to us. We are fully convinced that nurses are an essential part of that gear that we have not cared for, valued and protected as it deserved. Our commitment to the principles and diagnosis of promoters is really clear. However, we should also point out some additional considerations to those set out in the motion for a law that we are voting on today. Firstly, we believe that it is important not only to talk about the nurse-patient ratio, but also about the specialized training of nurses, who can open the fork of ratios and improve the quality of care. The ratios actually matter, but they cannot be disconnected from the context. Care needs are not the same in an environment of high social complexity than in an area with less chronic rates or multipathologies. Therefore, the ratios depend on the environment, they really depend on where they are located. Addressing diversity and complexity in a specific way is a necessary condition for a model of health system development that guarantees equity and social cohesion, even more so if we talk about a decentralized model like the one we have. We also find it very adventurous and even re-centralizing to propose a change that affects the scope of the recruitment of professionals from the various health services of the Autonomous Communities without having the governments and parliaments of those territories. In fact, perhaps this ILP would have to have been presented in each of the parliaments of the autonomous communities, where the competences really fall and on which their funding depends. It is not the interterritorial council, as has been said here, that has to manage this; it is the autonomous communities that have full competence in direct management. The interterritorial council now serves for the state of alarm, but it is not the space where the competitive framework has to be regulated. The competition framework is very clear in the Constitution, and it has to be in the autonomous communities, which is where competition really lies. It is also unacceptable or strange that this proposal should not be accompanied by a financing mechanism for its development. They will tell me that we are always with the same thing, that we always ask the same thing: money, financing. Man, we have experiences with laws such as dependency or the incorporation of the portfolio of oral health services. We have the experience that we approve but then no money comes, and in the end who has all the responsibility, who all the weight and all the political pressure are the autonomous communities. This is the experience we have and, therefore, we do not trust much in that good will of the Socialist Party or We can about it being dealt with, we approve it and then we will already pay, we will see how we finance it. It doesn't work that way, because our experience is different. Even so, we consider it essential to strengthen our nursing staff and therefore it is more necessary than ever to talk about funding. That is why we say that public health suffers from a chronic shortage of resources, which causes current expenditure on health to be perpetually above budget forecasts, generating a pattern of repeated deficits, especially acute in those autonomous communities whose fiscal balance suffers from a greater imbalance. This is not just a problem in Catalonia, but it affects the majority of autonomous communities. This deficit is closely linked to the lapse of the autonomous financing model that the Spanish State refuses to reform. Despite this, and thanks to the work of the professional dialogue forum promoted by the Department of Health in order to identify the needs of health care professionals, we have succeeded in strengthening our professional staff. Precisely the increase in nursing places in Catalonia is the highest in the whole State at the moment and achieves a historical maximum of almost 300 places in a year. We're above the Spanish average. The offer of specialized health training approved by the Department of Salut for the call of the state exam next year exceeds the historical peaks achieved and is expected to reach in 2021 until 1630 places in 54 different specialties. All this represents a 13.1% increase over the last call and maintains the upward trend of the last five years. This, even in spite of the economic impact of the pandemic and the narrow financial margin of the Generalitat. Why? Because the Generalitat is very clear that it is a priority to strengthen the health system. But don't be fooled, there has to be funding behind it. Let us not deceive ourselves, let us not trap the lonely, because it is very easy to sell the owner and then to charge the dead to the autonomous communities with the issue of financing. [[Applauds]] We must not lose sight of the fact that in the coming years the social structure will be different: the child population will decrease due to the reduction of births and the elderly population will increase thanks to the increase in life expectancy. This scenario shows that the health system will have to cope with a significant increase in chronicity. Therefore, we cannot talk only about ratios, but must also focus on the care and specific needs of each person, each community, each disease, etc. All this forces us to rethink the care models of our health system, with the aim of focusing on responding to people's health needs in an integral way. These new models require new professional profiles and, above all, require the guarantee of the adequate number of staff, promoting territorial equity. We have important challenges on the horizon and we need to address them comprehensively and through appropriate channels, be ambitious and rigorous. The health system doesn't just have to heal, it also has to take care of, and that's the difference. In this the infirmary has much to say, and more will say in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u17	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Márquez Guerrero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u18	Thank you, President. After living her first day of work equipped with the PPE, Rocío Cubero, a nurse at the ICU at the Virgen del Rocío Hospital in Seville, a member of the COVID group, understood very well why she had to be in that unit. His long experience would allow him to work in sweat, wrapped in vaho, practically blind, almost alone with touch. After the hard day, a shower with soapy antiseptic, drying hair, skin and even soul; swollen face, ears and sore wrists. On returning home another shower, direct clothes to the washing machine at 60° and look at yours at two meters, the longest and hardest distance in the world. She, who claimed once and a thousand times that she would be a nurse again, never thought, however, that she would be a soldier in a war. The applause, yes, represents a minimum part of the recognition that the nursing collective deserves. However, now is the time to translate those applause into measures that guarantee decent, safe and quality work. We need more and better public services to ensure the effectiveness of social rights and democracy in our country. Spain ranks twenty-four in the European Union in nursing staff per 1000 inhabitants, and it is no coincidence. Our country suffers from serious structural deficiencies in the development of public services. In the last decade, cuts have damaged our health care system. Economic recovery was not matched by an increase in health resources. As Amnesty International recalls, between 2009 and 2018, while gross domestic product rose by 8.6%, public health expenditure fell by 11.21% and public health investment per capita by 10.54 %. One of the key elements in this process of dismantling public health has been the reduction of jobs, which, together with precariousness and temporality, has caused many of our health professionals to have to leave to countries in our environment. Today nurses are being hired not for months or weeks, but for days and even hours. Thus it is very difficult to give quality care. Your Honor, the state's greater or lesser development of welfare varies as well as the quality of a country's democracy. The title of the essay by Vicenç Navarro Insufficient Well-being, incomplete democracy, rightly expresses this. To have strong public services it is necessary to democratize political power, to put an end to privileges. Only in this way can the interests of the social majority be protected, only in this way can the public sector be defended. And I say in all sense the public res, because there is an invisible thread that connects the impunity of the monarchy with the structural scarcity of our public services, and I am not just talking about tax fraud. [[Applauds]] In this debate about the lack of nurses and nurses, not all political forces are equal. For decades, the right-wing, a political expression of neoliberal thinking, have been dedicated to systematically rushing against public services, applying cruel and useless austerity policies, which have reduced and precarioused employment. Only in the General Administration of the State have we lost 40 000 public jobs in the last decade. Faced with this, a week ago United We defended improving teacher-student ratios in order to achieve higher quality education. We didn't make it. That is why it is so important for civil society to be organised. Pressure must not come only from the powerful; we need strong social movements, an organised civil society that is pressing for progress in a social and democratic direction. In the case of nursing staff, empirical evidence on the incidence of ratios in the health of the population is overwhelming. A study by Elena Fernández, professor at the University of Seville, concludes that the lack of nurses increases the mortality of patients. This researcher has studied eleven hospitals in the Andalusian public health system and comes to the following conclusion: from nine patients, each more increased in the ratio assumes that the chances of dying increase by 19%. Ladies and gentlemen, 20 00 nursing jobs have been destroyed in Spain under the pretext of the crisis in the last eight years. Spain has a ratio of 5.7 nurses per 1000 inhabitants, far from 8.8 of the European average. We need to increase the ratios, as agreed in the conclusions for social and economic reconstruction. Remember, increase public health staffing generally to an average of doctors, nurses and nurses per 1000 inhabitants in developed countries. This bill, like all, is likely to improve. Perhaps it is necessary - certainly, Mrs Gorospe - to perfect your fit in the competition framework, it is essential to connect the improvement of the ratios more with the essential reinforcement in primary care and, of course, we must pay attention to the conditions, Mr Eritja, such as the rural environment or other social and demographic factors. That is what parliamentary procedure is for. Finally, I would like to thank the organizations and signatories who have promoted this initiative, and especially the nurses and nurses. They have taken care of us under very difficult circumstances. It is time for public institutions to look after them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u20	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Socialist Group has worked today as much as it did yesterday in the presentation of Decree 21/2020. Nothing. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, could we have avoided deaths in this terrible epidemic if we had more nurses? Our group thinks so, no doubt. But having an adequate ratio of nurses per patient would not have compensated for the terrible, terrible ineptness of this government. For example, having a nursing ratio three times higher than that of Spain has not compensated for the mismanagement of the Belgian Government, ladies and gentlemen. The Spanish Government and the Belgian Government on the podium of ineptitude in Europe. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, would fewer nurses have been infected? Of course not, given the terrible shortage of personal protective equipment - and in that you have the blame -; a shortage that led to the proposer, Don Manuel Cascos - who, at the time, is president of the Nursing Union - to denounce Spain to the European Union on 31 March 2020. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] What would have been, ladies and gentlemen, is a lower expenditure on garbage bags, which the nurses had to use to protect themselves from infection. [[Applauds]] Having said that, our group welcomes this proposal for a law, which is born of a legislative initiative of the people and has great social and professional support, because we believe it is justified and necessary for the health of all Spaniards - Mrs Gorospe, of all - and for the proper exercise of the health profession of nursing, organized by the Law 44/2003, of the Order of the Sanitary Professions. The proposer focuses his argument that this proposal is based on security, unity and equality. These three words must be venerated. Let us move on to the reasons for this proposal. Well-founded legally, from our point of view, it is surprising that no further scientific evidence is provided. This could be for three reasons, the first is the traditional allergy to science that jurists have when they make the laws, an allergy that doctors also have to the laws and that I am now dealing intensively but there are two more powerful ones, one is the paper for the study of economic and human resources, which dated 18 June 2010 said we had to hire more to adapt our ratios to the level of the European Union. [[laughs]] And there is another: the proposer, in the Committee on Health, provided scientific evidence to support this proposal. Well, ladies and gentlemen, our group believes that the proposer is full of reasons and we are going to support his proposal with some additional data, because the additional data have shone because of his absence from the exhibitions, possibly because the groups believe that the Spaniards know them, but we are going to say some more. This is the ratio we have in Spain, 5.5, or so, 3.72 in the National Health System, and compared to the European average of 8 or 8 and something. Spain is in the number twenty-second or twenty-fourth position, depending on the denominator. It is therefore insufficient. I thought they were going to bring in reports from the Nursing Union or reports from the Ministry of Health itself in 2009, but they didn't bring them. I will bring a more recent study, a study of three Spanish units, 326 centers - unlike the eleven that it has quoted Podemos - that give a ratio that will be more or less the ratio of deputies of VOX to Podemos that we will get in the next votes. [[Laughter and applause]] Well, this study of 326 hospitals and their corresponding ICUs provides data that also reinforces the proponent's thesis: for the hospitalization plants, ladies and gentlemen, they did not meet the quality standards of 36% in the morning, 75% in the afternoon and 59% in the evening. Only Navarra did it at work and tomorrow; that is, if you get sick in Navarra it's quite fine, but as long as it's Monday and morning. And as far as ICUs are concerned, the ratio of 2 per patient was not met by any autonomous community, ladies and gentlemen. As far as nursing ratios are concerned, let me remind you, Mrs Gorospe, that Soria, Palencia and Cáceres are more or less in the top seven points, like you, having less money, look. And low ratios have consequences, of course they do: increased morbidity - therefore, increased disease - and increased mortality, no doubt, in hospitalized and critical, yes, and also in primary care, because in primary care in chronic patients increases the risk of poor follow-up, of course they do. Therefore, there is evidence, ladies and gentlemen, that the nursing ratio per patient is very low and this is also reflected in more morbidity and mortality. In conclusion, increasing the ratio, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, throughout Spain, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, will increase the health of the Spaniards. Of course, additional nuances will have to be introduced, that is for sure, and we will have to see not only the ratio, but the complexity. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by pointing out once again that our group supports this proposal for a law. At this time of desolation and health crisis we need more and better health professionals, more and better nurses. Will these personnel resources compensate for the natural tendency of this negligent government to err, to always follow the wrong path? We do not believe this, but VOX's mission is to point out the right path and, therefore, we will support this proposal, which has the merit of pointing it out to us. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u22	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, I would like to start by recalling that the situation in Spain in this pandemic remains dramatic, with more than 1 750 000 confirmed cases and with more than 48 000 people killed, according to the Ministry of Health, which unfortunately are many more, as we knew last week in the update of data of the deceased of the National Institute of Statistics. My condolences to their families, as well as my desires for early recovery for those suffering from the disease. With regard to healthcare professionals, we have overcome the barrier of the 90,000 infected, ladies and gentlemen, the highest number in the world. All my thanks and that of the People's Parliamentary Group for the great work they do, sometimes under very improved conditions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, many of these infected health professionals are nurses, and not only have they been infected by COVID in a significant number, but also nine nurses, nine companions, have cost their lives. All my love and that of my group for their families and loved ones. Speaking of nurses, this afternoon we discussed the consideration of a popular legislative initiative on nursing ratios to ensure patient safety regardless of where they live and the health or social health centre where care and care are received; a popular initiative that is endorsed by the signature of more than 660,000 citizens who have been sensitive to this proposal. So that we can understand the breadth of support I give you an example: in Spain we have about 300,000 nurses, and support for the initiative has doubled; it has been the support of nurses, healthcare professionals and associations of patients or citizens without more, and this at a time when nothing was yet known about the pandemic. I'm sure if you got to pick up signatures at the time of the pandemic the support would have been even greater. This is a sign of the great trust that citizens have in nurses. Despite this, our health system is deficient, it is a situation recognized by international organizations: the WHO or the ECDE, and by reports from the Senate or the Advisory Council of the Ministry of Health itself; also, we have been asked by different representatives of the profession in the Reconstruction Commission and also by Manuel Cascos Fernández himself, on behalf of the commission that promotes this bill in the Health and Consumption Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, safety is a key component of care quality and a recognized patient right in the developed world. Adverse effects secondary to health care are an emerging problem and represent a cause of morbidity and mortality that needs to be addressed and patient safety must be placed at the centre of health policies, as stated at the Fourth World Summit on Patient Safety and even the International Nursing Council itself suggests that higher levels of nursing staff must be achieved to ensure patient safety. In the case of Spain, and it has already been said here, comparing us with how we are in the European Union, we only have 5.7 nurses per 1000 inhabitants, and our country is the sixth largest in the world with fewer nurses in relation to its population and occupying 22 or 24 of the countries of the European Union in the number of nurses per 1000 inhabitants. There are also great differences depending on which autonomous communities we find ourselves in, and we are not talking about invasion of competencies; we are talking about how a patient must be safely cared for, regardless of the autonomous community where he or she is hospitalized or receiving care from a nurse. In our health facilities, it is common for a nurse to have more than 15 or 20 patients assigned to her daily care, also that in the intensive care units of hospitals the safe ratio of a maximum of 2 patients assigned to each nurse is not respected. Or we could talk about primary care or social health centres. The lack of nurses in the COVID pandemic has become even more pronounced, as we have seen how health services, if they wanted to hire nurses, could not because they did not have them. This has generated a great stress and mental exhaustion in them, with long working hours, with hardly any rest and without being able to reconcile family, and for the patients it has meant not getting to the level of care they needed, which resulted in their safety. With this ILP we can address two challenges: to cover existing deficits by failing to meet nursing ratios to ensure patient safety and to replace retired nurses. Retirement is another aspect that needs to be addressed, as in Spain, about 20% of the nurses who are still working will retire in the next ten years, as it coincides with what we met last week at the World Health Organization. In planning the number of nurses, aspects such as population ageing must also be taken into account. In Spain, we have 2.8 million people over eighty years of age who represent an important demand for nursing care, or with the degree of dependence of patients, because we currently have the number of nurses allocated according to the number of beds and it is necessary to address these issues in human resources planning. It has been said here and addressed in the Reconstruction Committee, but, ladies and gentlemen, in our group we believe that there are sufficient reasons to support this popular legislative initiative. These are the reasons, among many other issues that we could also address, Mrs Prieto, and which are not recognized in the State General Budgets, for which my group is going to support this initiative. I conclude by stating that for me as a nurse, and knowing very well the great work carried out by all my colleagues, it has been an honour to intervene in this parliamentary initiative. Thanks to the leadership of my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, for this opportunity. Nursing is a great profession and deserves the attention of all your lordships. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velasco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u24	We continue with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, organic, amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judicial Power, for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judicial Power in office. For the presentation of the initiative by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group and the Confederal Group of the United Nations We can bring a proposal for a law to alleviate one of the effects of an anomaly which has been taking place for two years now, since 4 December. I would like to draw up a number of legal arguments, although throughout the intervention, of course, I will enter into political nuances, because there are. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for an organic law is intended to establish the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary in cases of expiry of the term of office of its members without its renewal within the five-year period laid down in the - attention - Article 122.3 of the Constitution. I already quote an article from the Constitution because I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that it is good that you become familiar with the Constitution, with its articles, that you read each and every one of them and not just those that suit you. Thus, the first paragraph of this 122 indicates that the General Council of the Judiciary will be composed of the president of the Supreme Court, who will preside over it, and twenty members appointed by the king for a period of five years. A brief pause, ladies and gentlemen. You've heard well: five years. Not five and a half, not six, not seven; five years. In addition, I have read this article and I am not right to see the vest of: except when the PP is in opposition, and then it will last as long as its blockade lasts. This shade does not appear in that article as much as I can read. But we continue with this article 122. It defines the Council as the governing body of the judiciary and refers to the organic law to determine its status, regime of incompatibilities, functions, appointments, composition, etc. Thus, this proposal for a law, as I repeat the Constitution, amends, therefore, two articles of the Organic Law on the Judiciary: the 570, adding an bis, which lists the powers that the Council may continue to exercise when it is in office because it has not proceeded in time to the renewal of its members, adding a closing clause to carry out those actions that are indispensable to ensure the normal functioning of the body. And 198 bis, where it is agreed not to cease the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretary-General of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, among other things, the current situation is characterized by a regulatory vacuum, as the organic law itself does not so far incorporate a specific legal regime for the period in which the Council has expired, expired or without renewal. Call it whatever you want. It is established - that is to say - that the Council will remain in office until the new one is taken over, but so far there is no complete and adequate legal regime for when the renewal of the Council - and the PP is in opposition - does not take place immediately at the end of its mandate. It is known that the other two powers, the Legislature and the Executive, have a well-established and very precise regulation of the powers that they can continue to exercise when they are in office in order to avoid a temporary extension of their powers, on the one hand, and a stoppage of their activity, on the other. Hence the meaning of this bill. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's all tell the truth. Spain has been experiencing an institutional anomaly for two years now. That is the time the Council has spent with the expired mandate. The blockade by the PP prevents the normal functioning of a key power. It is irresponsible, it is harmful, and I will also tell you that it goes against the European guidelines. The Venice Commission itself, in its report of 24 September 2019, says - and I quote -: The majority rule on appointments should not prevent, at least not for a long time, the appointment of authorities or members of a collective body, since without them the State cannot function properly. Thus, in these circumstances of blockade and without ever abandoning negotiations with the PP - by the way, up to three times have denied the agreement and you are not precisely St Peter - this proposal is presented aimed at regulating the interimity of the Council as the governing body of the Judiciary. The report on the rule of law that we were able to discuss last week with the European Commissioner for Justice, Mr Reynders, points out that this situation is a challenge, and that is true. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, for you your concept of democracy and parliamentaryism is to affirm without blush and before the Commissioner himself that you have three red lines to agree on the renewal of the Council. Faced with the Commissioner himself's stunned expression - because I was there - his spokesman said without being colored that the second was that United We may not be in the negotiation. You are vetoing a party in front of a commissioner, that is the concept of democracy that you export to Europe. I see that you do not have the same scruples when it comes to vetoing in your agreements to the far right. Ladies and gentlemen, at that appearance, which I do not know if you followed closely, the Commissioner commented that he was aware of his blockade and that he was concerned about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make some things clear to you. Firstly, in Spain, democracy is not questioned, however much some are committed and how much some MEPs are going around Brussels, sowing confusion and lies in an act of manifest disloyalty. Secondly, there is no legal argument - I would say no argument - to justify the blockade and damage they are doing to the institutions, beyond the Trumpian attitude of which they have lost five elections and do not accept reality. And, third, and also very important, judicial independence is not at risk in Spain. The judges in Spain are independent and will continue to be independent. Ladies and gentlemen, another message only harms Spain and its institutions. By the way - I do not say this - 99% of judges and magistrates in a Council's own survey ensure that they feel completely independent in their professional decisions. In addition, a purpose of the Council is to bring democratic legitimacy to our judiciary. There is no point in dividing powers if they are not truly depositaries of national sovereignty. Therefore, giving the public authorities democratic legitimacy was and continues to be an a priori consideration of their organic functioning. It is imperative to link the judiciary to national sovereignty, to article 1.2 of the Constitution, and to the Spanish people from whom the powers of the State emanate. The connection between the government of the judiciary and the courts, far from corrupting, legitimizes and dignifies the judiciary, making it an indisputably democratic figure. By the way, you know that the three powers of the State emanate from sovereignty, for this power, the Legislature, exercises its sovereignty with its legislative capacity, even if it hurts you. Ladies and gentlemen, the loss of the constitutional mandate to expire on the five years set out in Article 122 entails a certain loss of legitimacy on the part of the body. Its non-renewal in time and form degrades the normal functioning of the democratic system. Adhering to the constitutional mandate for the renewal of Council members is therefore an unavoidable obligation for you, for the representatives of the legislative branch, who commit themselves to leaving office when they intentionally prolong the exceptional situation in which the body is established. I will stop now in a data that, sometimes, is not said. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, seven out of every ten passed in the judicial career were women. Since 2004, they have approved more women than men. 54 per cent of the judicial career is women. On the contrary, seven out of every ten members of the so-called central organs are men, reaching 85% in the Supreme. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no full democracy in a system that does not guarantee access to half the population, but they do not seem to be interested in that. [[applause]] It's not healthy and it's not fair. You speak of democracy, but you really mean power; power and who holds it. They do not care about full democracy, equality, justice or transparency, they care about power, either through the front door or through the back door. I'm finishing up, Madam President. The legitimacy of the Council is not lost by the proposals of those who want to defuse it, but by the lack of renewal. It is you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, who politicize the Council. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Man!]] Its blockade is, above all, political. I know this hurts, but it's true. [[The Rumors Continue]] Its blockade - I insist on it, in case its voices have not allowed it to be heard - is above all political. Its blockade responds to short-term political interests and is a more - regrettably - consequence of the loss of five consecutive elections. Its blockade means denigrating and politicizing the Council by putting it at the service of its interests and complexities. Therefore, apart from the consideration of this law, it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to end this shameful act of institutional obstruction, with this parliamentary filibusterism, with this blockade, and that ball, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, remains on its roof. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u27	President, ladies and gentlemen, believe me when I say to you that I deeply regret having this debate again today in this House. I regret this because no democracy that is valued deserves a kidnapping of the judicial dome, a subversion of the constitutional order like that which the People's Party has been subjecting to the rule of law in recent years. The truth is that, at a time of crisis like the present, we should be talking about the challenges we face as a society; however, these days we are again immersed in an institutional crisis, which has two epicentres, the monarchy and the judiciary, used as a ram against the legitimate government out of the ballot box in the midst of a noise of sands. The drama of Spain is that we have a right with a genetic, with a pre-democratic DNA, a right that we have left half the country. In the background, more than bipartisans, many of you are more of a monocolored state, dressed in green or blue, as the case may be. That's why, when they lose the election, they'll be entangled in the judiciary. They did so in the Republic, they did so in the Government of Zapatero - two years were until the key decisions, such as the statute of autonomy, were made by the Constitutional Court - and they do so again now. They have always believed that any government other than yours is illegitimate. Like the Crown, they believe that power belongs to them by birth. That is why, when they govern, they use their structures, the state sewers, to pursue their political opponents and try to ensure impunity for their corruption crimes and thus remain in power. And when they lose it, they try to recover it by any means, also by illegitimate means, using fake news, lies, agitating hatred and confrontation, causing a climate of threats and coercion in the networks, in the streets and calling, even from here, from this Chamber, the Army and the king to take control of the situation; or last week, Aznar, Aguirre, Ayuso comparing Spain with Cuba or Venezuela; or Mr. Casado speaking directly that he was willing to risk his life for freedom and democracy, because, of course, we are in a dictatorship. [[Rumors]] You know that these speeches are not innocuous, that they have consequences, because you, when you say that the government is an illegitimate government, a criminal government, a constitutional dictatorship, you know that, in front of that, many people believe that everything is worth to overthrow, whether it is to harass the vice president and the minister in front of their home day after day, or to take a shotgun and simulate a shooting of all the members of the government, as happened; or even that some want to shoot not only the members of the government, but 26 million Spaniards, and some keep quiet, and some others say that they are yours, right, Mrs. Olona? Silence is eloquent. That background noise we know well, it had also been heard in the 1930s. So, as now, the scarecrow of Socialcommunism or that of Spain is broken was used as an alibi for its coup and apocalyptic sopplamas; and although some of you have evolved little, Spain has indeed done so. We are in Europe and our democracy is consolidated, but, despite that, let us not be mistaken, we cannot disregard that background noise that comes from the military sewers of the right, but also from the media, the police and the judiciary. That is a threat to coexistence, but also to democracy, because democracy is legitimized precisely in popular sovereignty, not in the king, as some believe. The institutions of any democratic country are based on this, and it is this legitimacy that allows the renewal of Congress, this House, and the Government of the Executive and the Government of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, do you imagine a government in office that will continue to govern, opposing the dissolution, after two years with the expired mandate and against the mandate of the polls? What would we say about that government? That it's illegitimate. What would we say about that situation? That we are facing a blow to democracy. Even some might speak of a coup d'état. Well, that doesn't happen in Latin America or Africa, that's happening in Europe; it happens here with the judges' government in Spain! And in the face of this subversion of the basic rules of political alternation, in the face of this institutional coup against the constitutional mandate we cannot stand idly by. [[Applauds]] Our obligation as democrats is to adopt a reform like the one we are presenting today to do precisely what this Congress does, what the executive power government does when it is in office, which has limited powers. Therefore, this law is a law of rescue of justice, which you have kidnapped. Once I have explained to you the reasons why this law needs to be passed today, I will explain to you the reasons why you are going to vote against it. Obviously, you are going to explain them now, but let me interpret them first, you will correct me already. [[Protests]] You will now have the floor, please don't interrupt me. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u29	Let's make things clear. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to turn the government of the judges into an impregnable bunker to continue corrupting, to continue colonizing and controlling the key positions of the judiciary of the Supreme Court, including the Constitutional Court; a colonization that has already begun in the years of Aznar, with Federico Trillo, and which has continued so far. They have the majority of 2013 and there have been four elections; they have 90 deputies here of the 350 and, instead, they have the absolute majority in the government of the judges. Why? Because they want their man, Mr Lesmes, who was a high office of their governments, eight years, to continue to fraudulently, unlawfully appoint judges like you. Or does anyone think it's a coincidence that you named Mr. Hurtado a month ago? Is it a coincidence that it was precisely Mr Hurtado who opposed the condemnation of the Gürtel, the testimony of Mr Mariano Rajoy, who freed the wife of Bárcenas, even though she had been sentenced to thirteen years in prison and released her? Does anyone really think that's a coincidence? Does anyone think that this has nothing to do with the pact of silence with Mr. Bárcenas so he wouldn't pull out of the blanket? Does anyone think it has nothing to do with the People's Party lawyer's visit to the prison where he was or with the SMS, the message from: Luis, be strong, do what we can? Because, speaking of messages, we all remembered another famous message, that of Mr. Cosidó, his senator, who yesterday was splashed by the Kitchen controversy. We remembered what Mr. Cosidó said, he said that you were in control of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court and he also said that the appointments of hundreds of judges were basic for you, for your survival; that's what he said. Of course they were basic, because without that control, do you believe that Mr. Married would be sitting in his seat after the gifted master's case? [[Protests]] You think I'm very ill thought out; maybe I am, but you put the judges who filed that case in the Second Chamber. [[applause]] [[Protests and rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u31	I'll be a misunderstanding, but the investigating judge - who didn't put her there, who won the position by opposition, who didn't put her to the finger - thought he should blame Mr. Married, but, of course, as you ascended to your related judges they filed it. That's what I think; at least it's very suspicious. Just as all the judicial careers of their related judges, such as Espejel, Enrique López, are very suspicious, the two who were challenged by the Gürtel. Espejel, in the Criminal Chamber of the National Audience, one of the most powerful armchairs in the fight against corruption; Espejel is to whom Cospedal said when he decorated her: Dear Concha. Enrique López, who was charging for FAES, you put him up, even came to the Constitutional Court; he was a member of the Constitutional Court until he had to resign for drunk driving, and from there you rewarded him by putting him in the Government of Ayuso, where he is now a Councillor of Justice. And he could give more names: Francisco Pérez de los Cobos, another member of the People's Party; they put him in the presidency of the Constitutional Court. Perez de los Cobos, we all know him, the soldier's brother who falsified public documents; the same. And so he could be giving names of the right-wing pastry with the appointments that send a very clear message to the judges: the power of justice is of the PP and if you face that party do not expect prizes or quick promotions, and, if not, let them tell Pablo Ruz, who thought it was one of theirs and came out frog, that is why he is no longer in the National Court; now they have sent him to a court in Madrid's extraradio. The worst is that they do not settle for buying the referees, they also want to kidnap the government of the referees, the General Council of the Judiciary, and demand as a ransom the expulsion of the playing field of the parties that represent more than 7 million, because they do not like them. It's as if we said that in 2023 we're not going to call elections because we don't like VOX being in institutions. [[Rumors]] But we know that the current model of democracy, the one we defend... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u33	... is much stronger than the threat that VOX represents, so we will not make a barbarity of those characteristics, which is what you are doing. That they don't like those who rule? They refuse to comply with the Constitution. That's the example you have of a country, that's why you cheat on justice, that's why you try to win what you've lost in the polls through the courts; and that's not what I'm saying, it was said by your former spokesman - now converted into famous youtuber - when he claimed that justice was the last bastion against us, against United We can, against the coalition government. Mrs. Ayuso also said so. Ayusus said that the monarchy, the king, justice, and she - in an attack of self-centeredness - were the three pillars to stop us; they were - he said - the antibody in front of us. And that's the problem too, they've done with justice the same thing they've done with the king, turning it into a part of justice. But unlike the monarchy, without which this country would greatly improve, democracy cannot live without justice. And yet - I conclude, President - ladies and gentlemen, despite your threats, your outbursts of tone, as we are seeing, your continuing illegalities, democracy is continuing and this government is now stronger than ever after approving the budgets and this government is not going to give in to its blackmail. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u34	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Santamaría Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I am not going to spend much time responding to your macedonia of ex-abrupts, Mr Asens, but I do want to say - you have referred to the 20th century - that of course this government is legitimate, of course that Podemos has the legitimacy that votes give in electoral processes, of course they sit legitimately in this House, but the 20th century shows us a multitude of examples of democracies in which parties that legitimately acceded to the institutions were truffled parties of dyes and dictatorial maneuvers, as happens in the case of Podemos, Mr Asens. You are a party that comes from the narcoregimenes, with totalitarian leaves and of course with perverse nature, Mr Asens. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] From there I will focus on responding to the explanations of my colleague Mr Aranda, whom I believe he has had to defend the indefensible and explain the inexplicable today. Sincerely, dear Paco, after yesterday's strong statement from the majority association of the judiciary on the content of the bill we are debating, I did not sincerely expect the Socialist Group to defend this bill by resorting to legal arguments. I did not expect it because, as that communiqué literally says, its proposal produces blush - literal tenor - because of the lack of knowledge of basic legal issues. Smiling, Mr. Aranda. And you're wrong that you're wrong. Applying what you propose would be as much as blending in black or applying the adjustment letter on Spanish Radio-television while we appoint or appoint the Board of Directors, which would make no sense, and today you still insist on it. Mr Aranda, your group is forcing you to be Don Tancredo, and believe me, I am sorry, but let me tell you why your group is forcing you to defend a proposition that everyone knows we are going to vote against. If I wanted to be well thought out, I would reply that this is the political cunning of a government that acts like a maligned child when the People's Party does not go into its pretensions. But it's not like that, I can't be well thought out. This proposal is nothing more than a provocation, a provocation by the Government to have arguments justifying the modification of the majorities required by the Organic Law of the Judiciary when it comes to electing the members of the Council, which is unconstitutional, it violates the conclusions of the Consultative Council of Judges of the Council of Europe, the recommendations of Greco, the warnings of the European Association of Judges, it is contrary to the work of the Venice Commission, it has been criticized by 90% of the judges, by the Association of Prosecutors, by nine TSJs, by the European Commission and ultimately by the whole world of law. What would the passing of this law mean? For the Judicial Power would have fallen and with it much of our freedom and democracy and also that the council would be a monocolor organ turned into the true ministry of judicial truth in the hands of Mr Sánchez, Esquerra, Podemos and Bildu. That is the sad truth of the government's anti-democratic and fascist maneuvers when it pushes to renew the council, as they are doing today, and its true and ultimate goal. That's why they make you come up to this rostrum this afternoon to defend what you can't defend. If it were a legal issue, they would have treated it as a bill and we would have the legal knowledge of the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary. But it's not about that, it's about you trying to build up arguments to impose a single-color judge government on judges, and that's unacceptable in democracy, ladies and gentlemen. I am convinced that when this debate is over you will see a smile on the faces of the parties that you have come to the leadership of the state, because you know that in this way you are much closer to the regime change you are proposing, as Mr Asens has just explained. This proposal is nothing more than a new attack on judicial independence on which the supreme value which we are trying to protect and which you are trying to destroy, which is nothing more and nothing less than the separation of powers is based. You accuse us of blocking the renewal of the council when in this House, ladies and gentlemen, there is no parliamentary group that has enough seats to block the renewal of the council. Do you realize what you are doing, how unusual your accusation is? The only thing you are pursuing is not reaching any kind of pact, because the day that sanchism decided to become a broken toy in the hands of radicals, phylo-terrorists and separatists, that day decided that it did not want to understand constitutionalism and that it was on the side of a regime change. That is the only truth and what we are debating today, Mr Aranda and the Socialist Party. With these partners, lords of PSOE, it is you to democracy that scumbags the wood: you act from within the institutions to destroy them. Answer me, if not, why do you think the independenceists want to occupy the judiciary? Can you answer me? To put a more court in Toledo, to build a better and more united Spain or to build the Spanish public res? Gentlemen of the PSOE, wake up because they are telling you every day with their statements. Answer me, why do you think Bildu wants to occupy the judiciary? To share a common project with the rest of the Spaniards or to demolish one of the pillars of the state on its path to independence? Or Podemos, a party that is born of the corruption of the narcoregimes and whose only objective in its particular assault on the heavens is to break with the legitimacy of the transition to bolívarize Spain. What can We claim but the destruction of the council itself as it has been doing with its attempt to demolish all the institutions of the State, absolutely all? There is not a single state institution in this country freeing itself from the ruthless attacks of Podemos. Do you not read the press, gentlemen of the PSOE, nor do you listen to Churches and their effervescent followers? How will it be a valid interlocutor who permanently interferes with the work of judges and judges and, therefore, who does not accept that judges should be neutral, impartial and independent? Do you think Podemos is on the side of judicial independence or do you think he's come to destroy the judiciary so it doesn't interfere with his plans? Because I believe in the second, Mr. Aranda. Have you not read the statements of Mr. Asens - we have just heard it - and Mrs. Isa Serra, sentenced to nineteen months for assaulting a policeman, trying to destroy magistrate Marchena for the decision of the Supreme to repeat the trial to Otegi? Do you think that Judge García Castellón denounced to the National Police the threats he suffered from Podemos for pleasure when he considered that Churches should lose the status of interested in the Dina case? Or do you think Judge Escalonilla enjoys the pressures and threats he suffers from investigating Podemos' irregular funding? Ladies and gentlemen of the former Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, that socialism seeks to take advantage of this revolted river and this regime change to consolidate Mr Sánchez in perpetual power is proper to certain regimes of infamous memory in the European history of the twentieth century. We are not the ones who sign the Tinell Pact; we do not like the vetoes, but your budget with Bildu and the separatism that this House adopted a few days ago is nothing more than a new Tinell Pact to exclude constitutionalism from the new regime that you intend to build. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our chairman is a person with a proven sense of state. Before this legislature began, he offered the President of the Government thirteen pacts in matters such as, for example, justice, so that Spain could face without sectarianism the main challenges that we Spaniards have to face in these uncertain times, and the answer of the beloved leader was always no, it was always opting for the Manichean division of the Spaniards, it was always opting for the polarization of Spanish political life and it was always opting to destroy the institutions, following the example and dictate of Churches and, among them, the Judicial Power as its main objective as a trampoline to assault the skies of a regime change and as a step before the attempt to perpetuate Sánchez and socialism in power. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to defend the freedom, the separation of powers, the rule of law, judicial independence, the constitutional framework and the space of coexistence in harmony that is born of the Transition, in which we believe and whose defence we assume by seeking spaces of encounter in the difference and with dialogue as the main instrument for political action. We do not believe in order and command as a way to rule, let alone obey. We do not believe that Sánchez and Spain are the same, and we do not confuse loyalty to Spain with loyalty to Sánchez. The Government's position has always been to break all the consensus on which our coexistence is based, with the view given to that regime change, and for this you know that it is necessary to end the independence of the judiciary. They said no to the first proposal for a pact put forward by the president of my party, and while my party was talking about guaranteeing judicial independence, you were placing a PSOE deputy and Justice Minister with Sánchez at the head of the State Attorney General's Office for scandal of your own and strangers. Do you think you can seriously talk about the prosecution investigating any criminal proceedings in Spain while Dolores Delgado is the state's attorney general? Do you really believe that these are the bases on which the dialogue of such an important legislative text can be established? This weekend we read in the newspaper El Mundo that the Government also intends to know the content of police investigations, while the text of the new Lecrim will allow police officers to share information with the Government, thus ending the secret that presided over the exercise of the functions of judicial police. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a coup under democracy, this is a coup against the flotation line of Spanish democracy, which without the independence of the judiciary will never be a full democracy and which you intend to threaten. They also said not to judicial independence on the day of the reform of the system of election of the State Attorney General and also when they said no to the judges electing the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed, loved and persecuted that the method of election of the members of the council be changed so that the judges can elect the persons who lead them, and we have always met with a no of the government, an irrational one and a no that obliges us or that necessarily calls us to the method of election currently in force, which offers us a paradox or, if they want, leads us to a dead end: either we break the constitutional mandate to renew, in breach of the current legality, or the government will, as it is announcing, unilaterally amend the organic law to alter the necessary majorities to elect the members of the council, as I have already had occasion to expose and whose consequences I have already told them. To be aware of this and to avoid it is not collaborationism, ladies and gentlemen, but a desperate attempt to ensure that the judiciary does not fall. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by reiterating our negative vote on this lying proposal from a government that has made lying a way of being in politics. The Government of Spain lies, it usually does so, continuously, with descarce, despair and impunity. He lies with the number of dead, with the public television, CIS, Illa with the experts, Ábalos with Delcy, Marlaska with the immigrants fleeing in a tracking attitude of this House, Campo with the reasons that lead him to reform the crime of sedition. This is not a government, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great lie. Spain suffers from a pandemic and, on the other hand, a terrible epidemic of lies that try to hide the obvious, that this government wants a change of regime and that is much more comfortable with the philosophy of terrorism, with authoritarian modes, with separatism and with breaking with everything that unites us more than with the agreement and coexistence of the Spanish nation, Mr Aranda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Santamaría. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u37	Thank you very much. I never thought that the first time the PP used the fascist word would be to refer to a party of one hundred and forty years instead of VOX, but things you see, Mr. Santamaría, you decide your allies. To me it's a little strange that you talk about Macedonian and let go of all that kind of improvisation in your speech. I do not know if I am taken out or if you are taken out, but I will tell you one thing so that it will also remain in the Journal of Sessions, because sometimes we are more attentive to tweets than to what remains in this House. For me it is a pride, it is an honor to go out on behalf of my group to defend any legislative initiative we have. [[Applauds]] Maybe you can be bothered, but do you know what's going on? That you have no arguments, you have a copy shop. I challenge you to change your speech and instead of judicial power, put euthanasia, put education, put budgets, put minimum vital income. You guys have a copy shop, and that's where all the speeches come from. With which I urge you, I advise you to continue giving it to the copy shop, because you have a little time, ladies and gentlemen. You were talking about a bad boy. You remind me - and now I'll tell you some comparisons - of that kid in the yard that when he lost the game he took the ball and left. Well, your leader, married, is a little bit alike, when he doesn't like what's there, he locks up and takes the ball. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Santamaría? That discussing the law of gravity with you is absurd and we are forced by each plenary to discuss the law of gravity, perhaps because your right-wing terraplanists force you to that kind of attitude, but it is very complicated. I suggest reading a well-known philosopher that you will remember, who is Norberto 'Obvious', because it is obvious that this blockade is for the personal and political interests of your party. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it is obvious that you block the judiciary, it is obvious. You did not mention what this legislative reform was about; you had a speech for another law, you came out here and up to the 11th minute of twelve - go to note! - you did not mention that this initiative seeks to regulate the interimity of the General Council of the Judiciary. You get what happens to that driver who goes down the highway and hears on the radio that there's a suicidal driver in contradiction and says, "No, one, no, all." For you are that suicidal driver who also leads to an extreme right-wing copilot who does not interest you and who leads you on a wrong path. Gentlemen of the PP, you have an elephant in your house, a very large elephant in this piece of cheese, an elephant you don't want to see and that you're preventing them from doing real politics. I suggest, after these improbations in this plenary, that you return to the path of agreement, to the path of reasoning, to the path of words and abandon any kind of frentist discourse as with which you have delighted us here. Today it is true that by this order of the plenary the three tenors have not come out together; you have gone out alone to sing the air without your company, but I imagine that in the future, when they speak, Citizens and VOX will follow them. I repeat, Mr Santamaría, you have no political or legal argument whatsoever. [[Rumors]] They basically have a problem with democracy in this country. You have reiterated once again that you do not want a political party to participate in the negotiations and that is a direct attack on this Parliament. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u39	Thank you, President. Mr. Santamaría, I am surprised that you are surprised by our criticisms of Marchena, which you say you control from behind, according to Cosidó's message. I am also surprised that you use the General Council of the Judiciary as an argument of authority in your criticism of this proposal when it is a council that you control. And I am surprised that you use Europe's argument. Ladies and gentlemen, what concerns Europe, and much, in particular the European Commission, is the blocking situation in which we are, and this is why we were reminded of it on 4 December recently: we need to address a way of unlocking the situation. In fact, what worries Europe is the existence of a right in Spain that agrees and reaches agreements with the extreme right. In fact, the same leader of his European party, the European People's Party, recently said so. He said: The problem with starting flirting with extremists is not that you find common interests, but you start thinking the same thing as them. [[Rumors]] I think it's meant for you. That's what worries Europe...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u41	He is concerned that we are the exception to the democratic and anti-fascist values that founded it. Because the difference between you and the rest of the right-wings in Europe is that you understand that being a Democrat is not being antifascist. Not by chance in Spain, unlike the rest of Europe, fascism was not defeated. The Democrats had to deal with those who persecuted them, imprisoned them, tortured them or shot their relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, the reason for the blockade to which you have submitted to the Judiciary is not called Podemos or Pablo Iglesias, it is not even called Bildu; the blockade to which you continue to submit to the Judiciary is called the Kitchen case. Hearing them talk about depoliticization of justice sounds as ridiculous or cynical as when they come here to give us anti-corruption lessons; you, who had a minister, a chief prosecutor and an anti-corruption prosecutor repudiated by this Congress for obstructing justice. You, who have more than 800 accused or convicted of corruption. You, of which the courts, the police and the UDEF said you were a criminal organization. You're the ones from the D.A.'s office tuned it up to you. You, who are the ones who were financed illegally. You're the ones from the state sewers. You, for all that, want to keep the person who was high with Aznar, as president of the General Council of the Judiciary, to continue making appointments fraudulently, to continue colonizing, as has been the case for years, the dome of the Judiciary. There is something worse than lying at parliamentary level and it is to do so with the cynicism with which you have done it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u42	Thank you, Mr. Asens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mr. Santamaría Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Asens, what we want is for the judges to elect the members of the General Council of the Judiciary of judicial provenance. See if it's simple. For someone who is already fifty-one years old, as is my case, and who has known the socialism defended by Mr González and others, such as Mr Nicolás Redondo Terreros, it is very sad to see the PSOE and we can oscillate on account of ending the independence of the judiciary, bringing to this House a proposal for a law with the twisting intention of taking a step towards a reform of the Organic Law of the judiciary that will allow them to destroy the General Council of the judiciary from the institution itself. And we will, of course, do everything we can to avoid it. They are confused again, there is not a single group in this House with the number of seats sufficient to address any blockage. Mr Asens has referred to a number of issues that produce some hilarity. He forgets that his party was born basically of the narcoregimenes, in which is the origin of his political force. You are originally a corrupt and structurally corrupt party. Let me give you some names. Yesterday Isa Serra was convicted for nineteen months; she could continue with her partner Rodriguez, about to sit on the bench; we could remember the paradox when Iglesias called Monedero honest after he regularized 425 000 euros with the tax, by the way, eleven days after he went out in the press and before Hacienda decided to open a trial against him. It's you like the master Ciruela, who didn't know how to read and yet he went to school. That's the school you guys put in. He could also quote Del Olmo, Daniel de Frutos, Neurona, Kinema, Rocío Esther Val, Gloria Elizo, Marta Flor, Celia Cánovas, Carolina Alonso, Carlos Sánchez Mato and Celia Mayer in Madrid, Carlos Ubero in Aragón, Jorge Luis Bail in Huesca, etc. You are a party whose summit is being investigated at Judge Escalonilla's 42nd trial, to which you are pressing and threatening because you do not like it and are the first party investigated. [[Applauds]] You're being investigated as a party. From there, talk about being a valid subject... It is that Mr. Iglesias has been reprimanded three times: two by the Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary after appearing in Antenna 3, when he criticized Isa Serra's conviction, and the third when he criticized the suspension of permits in the case of the trial. It is you who are cruising Mr. Marchena; those who are attacking Mr. García-Castellón, who has had to seek protection from the National Police because he is being threatened; those who attack Judge Escalonilla. And you're the ones who want to be on the General Council of the Judiciary? I understand that, of course, to destroy it, so that it is not an impediment, to set foot on the wall and to destroy this young democracy that we too have defended, as you, and therefore, do not give us any lessons in democracy. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, I have referred to your intervention at the outset and I remind you of the ridiculousness that you have made after the report that the main association of judges in this country has made public, which, of course, is something more legal than I know; I do not know if it is your case, Mr Aranda, but you have made it very clear what your position is. He has not responded to the fact that this is a government that is installed in the lie. Mr Campo, Minister of Justice, has announced that he will reform the crimes of sedition and rebellion to modify a criminal type that, according to him, is obsolete within the framework of comparative law. This has nothing to do with the situation of the nine convicted by the trial, nothing to do with it. For we understand that this is an a la carte legislative process, and since it is right to legislate a la carte, why not change the type of embezzlement, as four of them have been convicted of the crime of embezzlement. Or let's go a step further, why don't you change the conspiracy crime so that Oscar Puente, Mayor of Valladolid, can continue receiving prebendas in the form of yachts and trips to the Mediterranean islands and so he doesn't have to blush? [[Applauds]] You can continue to legislate on the letter and amend the Penal Code before anyone accuses Mr Zapatero of supporting or advocating crimes against humanity in relation to his performance in Venezuela, where he is justifying Mr Maduro's crimes, I imagine that in exchange for substantial amounts that are regularly pocketed. [[Rumors]] Or else, why don't they change the crime of prevarication so that the president of the Barcelona Parliament and the mayor of Hospitalet can distribute funds at her own will in accordance with the tradition of the Socialist Party and the Andalusian Socialist Party, which is responsible for distributing and misappropriating ERE funds at a standstill for the greater enjoyment of homes of lenocinium and psychotropic substances? [[Rumors]] That is the reality of this Government which lies, Mr Aranda, the reality of this Government which lies, which wants to change the regime by putting an end to the freedom and independence that the judiciary enjoys today. That is why we stand on the wall and say no to a renewal of the Council that endangers our democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u44	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u45	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. The PRC will vote in favour of today's proposal, and although we are aware that this is just a patch and does not solve the problem, it seems quite logical that a functioning body should not go beyond the red line of day-to-day ordinary affairs, of the rules and those that do not compromise the discretionary decisions of the incoming body, but it is clear that there is a gap in the current system of appointments of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary and, whether or not there is agreement on this occasion on their appointment, it is necessary to change it in the future in order to prevent this anomaly from continuing. [[The Lord]] Look, the moral lessons are fine, but since we are here to be constructive, I am going to put forward a reform proposal that is valid for that proposed law presented and paralyzed today. Based on three indisputable basic constitutional principles; that the powers and justice emanate from the people, that the General Courts represent them and that justice must be exercised independently by judges and judges whose governing body is the General Council of the Judiciary; my proposal is simple and seeks to combine the two positions of the recent Spanish legal order for the election of the twelve members of the judicial career: election by parliamentarians and election by members of the judicial career. Under the current system of appointment by agreement of 2/5 parties, a maximum period of 30 days has been established since the end of the term of office. After the expiry of this deadline without the agreement having been reached by the Members of Parliament, it will be the members of the judicial career who will be in charge of presenting their proposal to this Parliament, which can be rejected in these Chambers by an absolute majority, because it does not seem logical that the proposed law, which is now frozen, of a second election by an absolute majority of Parliament, would make the first stage unnecessary and useless in the future, in addition to all these obstacles which are known to everyone. If the proposal of the judges is rejected, the first stage could be repeated, but my preferred proposal is to renew the Council by lot among the candidates who propose each of the Members and Senators and who at least support 10% of the Members. This amendment will be put forward in a complete procedure, with the corresponding quotas, etc., when the period of partial amendments to participate in a debate is opened, which I think would be very interesting if we focused it on criteria of democratic logic, since there are many possibilities outside the strictly partisan criterion and, moreover, passing through this Parliament to reach some kind of agreement. For the time being, we will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u46	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u47	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The law we are debating today is a flagrant attack on democracy that seeks to politicize justice. No precious democracy can afford the kidnapping of the justice that you are perpetrating with the law that you bring us here today. And it can only have one objective of this law; to try to make the General Council of the Judiciary change with less votes, it is only in the interest of putting judges at the service of the Government instead of putting them at the service of the law; that is the objective of who is bringing us this legal reform today. It is an attack not only on justice and the division of powers; it is an attack on the very essence of democracy. But that attack on justice began very soon, as soon as you joined the government. They began by appointing a prosecutor general and were so brazen that they had neither a complex nor a cover-up, so that no one had any doubts as to who the prosecutor's office depended on. In case anyone had it, you've already made it very clear with the appointment. And once they've already controlled the State Attorney's Office, they're now going to bring us a legal reform to change the investigation and that prosecutors can do it instead of judges because that's how court proceedings are better secured. And in case this were not enough, moreover, the police, when acting as the judicial police, will have to inform the government, it will not be that what happened to Mr Marlaska, that they are investigating something from the government and escape its control, because you want all control as a good government with partners who like totalitarian regimes very much, and this measure has much of that totalitarian vision. In addition, in case, when judges give sentences that you don't like, they already open the door to pardon, it won't be possible to condemn some partners and you politically harm them. Also when the judges are going to sit on the bench of the leader of Bildu for being part of a bloody terrorist gang, at that time all the hosts of the Government and its partners come out to accuse the judges of being politicized, just because they do not make the decision that you politically want them to make, not on the basis of the law but on the basis of politics. And all we needed was to hear Mr Ábalos say yesterday - of course, it's a bag without a fund of indecency Yes, yes, a bag without a fund of indecency, because it takes swallows to make the statements he made yesterday - that being part of a terrorist gang is something very personal. [[rumors]] [[applause]] [[Rumors]] I will explain one thing to you: Mr Otegi is to Bildu the same as Mr Ábalos to the lack of scruples when it comes to politics, his leader, exactly that, his leader. So stop manoeuvring justice because there can be no democratic country without independent justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u48	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today the Socialist and United Group We can bring a proposal for a law for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judiciary. It is true that there has been a lacuna of law, but it is also true that, if it does not come to be because of the blockade that the General Council of the Judiciary is currently experiencing, that lacuna could last another 41 years. This is forced by the situation of political blockade. At the bottom of the blockade of the General Council of the Judiciary - Mr Aranda pointed out when he said that the People's Party had dared to try to block a political formation that was part of the Government so that it would not be present in that body - a political content; at the bottom of the issue is the politicization of justice - I will save myself part of the speech because Mr Asens has explained it very well - i.e. to have controlled a large part of the judiciary politically. The Socialist Group's spokesman said: No, the vast majority of judges are independent. Of course, I share that too; the problem is that in the large judiciary there is a background race on the part of these gentlemen and those who have control of the General Council of the Judiciary to appoint more and more posts that are not so independent. It may be 1%, yes, but it's those who make decisions like the ones we saw yesterday. The Second Chamber of the Supreme Court is the highest example of political pollution by a high-ranking judiciary organ. This does not call into question either the People's Party, with the famous message that has already become well known in the General Courts, which said they controlled it from behind. When it was announced that independence forces were going to support the General Budgets of the State, we saw how that Second Chamber determined that the third degree should be revoked to Catalan political prisoners, a measure of exception and revenge. What they were supposed to want was to condition on the basis of that exceptional measure. Unfortunately, he didn't miss me. Yesterday they took a much more curious step because, contrary to the jurisprudence and the interpretation that has been made so far of the laws, they determined that Mr Arnaldo Otegi, our secretary general, and four other comrades who were unjustly condemned in the past had to go back to trial. I do not know if you have heard Mr. Garzón this morning, who curiously was the person who imprisoned you, who said today on Spanish Television that it seemed to you a barbarity and a nonsense and that it would already be a condemnation to go back to the National Audience. Time has shown that this accusation was absurd, implausible and false. Similarly, European justice determined that these people, these comrades and these companions, had not had a fair trial. Moreover, I do not know if you know this, but Mr Arnaldo Otegi is the only person for whom the European Court of Human Rights has sentenced a State twice. I bet whoever wants a dinner that Spain is going to be convicted for the third time on the basis of an accusation against Mr Arnaldo Otegi. It is true that here there are some gentlemen and some ladies who say: No, Spain is an exemplary democracy with judicial independence! Well, they get shot in the foot when they bet on that justice of exception and revenge, but they don't give a damn about challenging the European institutions because they think that these decisions should be made here and not in Europe. Who are these judges in Europe to determine that these people were unjustly convicted? Now that we're talking so much about noise of sands, rusty sands, what's at the bottom is also a noise of togas, dusty togas, franchisor togas, which are trying to influence politically and are revolting when they don't like political decisions that are seen in this House or in the Senate. They are revolting and, in the face of it, they want to condition, participate and make politics also because they are obviously controlled by the People's Party and by its most ultra split, which also has representatives in the judiciary and those politicized courts. Sometimes I have listened to Mr.Asens a phrase from Montesquieu: There is no greater form of tyranny than that exercised in the shadow of the laws and with the appearance of justice. Well, that's what we're seeing today. As you said, it is obvious that they want to have control of those courts by the time their cases of corruption arrive, but also by the time those of the emeritus arrive. They want to keep them under control so they can't make decisions that they can go a way they don't like. The measures they have put forward today, frankly, seem to me to be insufficient. I see them well and we will support them, but we must bear in mind that there are some gentlemen who are in rebellion. Mr. Santiago said: to resign; of course, that would be logical, but no, how will they resign if what they want is to continue to influence politically? We should look for another way, which is the proposal I bring. The representative of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria said that he was bringing a proposal, and I am bringing another proposal, that it is to cease the members who have finished their term of office - for this purpose, when appropriate, we will present an amendment - and that a small permanent parliament should remain, as is the case in these General Courts. There are proposals by jurists that only three persons remain - the oldest, the youngest and the last or the last who have entered the General Council of the Judiciary - and that alone and exclusively have administrative and sanctioning functions; the rest, ceased. His term of office has ended and, in order not to repeat the situations we have seen, the most intelligent thing is for them to cease. Finally, the representative of the People's Parliamentary Group said that our intention was also to be on that General Council of the Judiciary. No, the truth is that we have no desire to be, as our spokesman Mertxe Aizpurua said. Our will is to unlock and, above all, to depolicate and 'unblock' justice. For that our vote will go free in exchange for nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in the affirmative, beyond any doubt we may have. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u50	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u51	Thank you very much, President. We are debating the amendment of the Organic Law on the Judiciary in order to establish the legal regime applicable to the General Council when it is in office, thus completing the provision provided for in Article 570 (2), which limits the powers of the Council in office exclusively to the election of a new President. It is now intended to broaden the scope of the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary when its members have completed their term of office and the body has not been renewed when legally appropriate. However, ladies and gentlemen, this reform proposal cannot be removed from the context that surrounds it, the dispute over the Council since the 1985 reform of the procedure for the appointment of the twelve members of judicial origin, converting from that moment to the date its twenty members of full designation by the Courts, a dispute to which it was not alien, and I have to remind you, the option of the only judicial association at that time, APM, to bet on a majority system to approve the candidatures of judicial origin. The dispute reaches its present day, and although the TC in its Judgment 108/1986, in response to an appeal of unconstitutionality of the People's Alliance against Law 6/1985, points out that article 122 does not contain a definite formula for choosing the members of judicial origin, leaving it at the disposal of organic law, it did provide arguments to keep the dispute alive through, as Professor Don Pablo Lucas points out, the exegesis of the purpose of the Constitution to attribute three fifths of the Council to those of judicial origin and how, in his opinion, that purpose was more easily achieved. In any case, as I have stated on other occasions, associating parliamentary intervention with partyism with negative connotations means accepting the reverse association, artificially opposing political and supposed technical, which is but another ideological position. Nor would a council whose members had been elected by their peers have necessarily produced different results in terms of internal confrontations, bearing in mind that the different judicial associations and their elected representatives represent and associate themselves with the same ideological tendencies and currents as the society in which they are integrated. On the other hand, the shared experience and the case of the Council of the Italian Magistrature confirm this. However, ladies and gentlemen, the most surprising of all this controversy, as I said to you, since 1985 with regard to the politicization of the Council, initiated by and continued by the party that started the PP, is that the People's Party did not proceed to restore the elective system of judicially-origin members when it had an absolute majority after the 2000 and 2011 elections. This is a claim that only proclaims and claims when it does not govern and as justification for blockades when it is in minority and opposition, as it happens right now and as it happened in the past, when the Council expired its mandate in November 2006 and was not renewed until September 2008, almost two years later. [[applause]] It was a block similar to the current one, with the same actors and the same roles. On the other hand, and in the face of this barren and exhausting debate, we have already pointed out on other occasions that, in the different judicial models of our environment, political power intervenes either in judicial appointments or in the bodies appointed and governed by the judiciary, i.e. the judicial councils. Examples of the first are the American model and the European continental model, and examples of the second are the judicial councils. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform that we are now discussing, as I have already pointed out, indirectly deepens the problem of the blockage in the parliamentary appointment of judicial officers. However, this is not the first time it has been done in this House, in the courts. So it happened in Organic Law 4/13, which produced a very profound reform of the General Council of the Judiciary; certainly, sponsored by the PP when it had absolute majority and without counting on the opposition. In one of the amended articles, 570, it is possible to set up the council if only one of the Chambers of the Courts makes the appointment where appropriate, even if the other does not, acting from that moment on with the newly elected and the other half remaining in office, in order to overcome the fact that the late renewal of one of the Chambers makes it impossible to renew the council completely every five years and thus assuming de facto the instrumentalization of the procedure for appointing the members of the council by the parliamentary groups, as explained in paragraph 3 of the explanatory memorandum. Now, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Podemos present a proposal for a law with the indirect aim of overcoming political blockades through a legislative option that also, along with other purposes, seeks to alleviate the effects of an anomaly that generates a situation that is manifestly inadequate for the proper functioning of the institutions. In any case, we must point out that, in our view, neither before the statutory reform of the PP, in 2013, nor now, with express reforms and without having regard to both internal reports and opinions of European organisations, the alteration of the structures of the council is the best way to deal with the problems arising, among others, for the election of its members, while calling the current blockade of the People's Party unacceptable so that the instrumentalization of a guaranteed process reverses for the benefit of those who carry it out and, moreover, to the detriment of the proper functioning of the council. Nor is it acceptable that between more than 5000 judges and judges and numerous prestigious jurists we will not be able to find twenty vowels. And it cannot be accepted that the debate on the candidates and the procedure should continue through the media and that those who do not want to solve the problems through a respectful and constant dialogue should try to trap it with justifiable traps. Finish...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u52	It must be over now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u54	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u55	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Look, I want to tell you, Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Members of the United Nations, that the presentation of the consideration of this bill is, without more or less, without another word, an insult. It is an insult to the intelligence of the citizens; it is an insult to this whole House, to the members of this House, but, above all, it is an insult to those to whom we have dedicated our lives to the public service of justice and believe in that independent justice. In less than a year I have seen here, in the Congress of Deputies, making absolutely arbitrary decisions regarding the independence of the judiciary, and you do not cease to strive. When we thought we'd seen it all before, you're moving on. Mr. Aranda, don't try to fool us. I will tell you what three reasons your two parliamentary groups want to carry out this reform. The first, to weaken the judiciary. The second, to press the People's Party to renew the twelve members of the council. And, third, to appoint his people to the leadership positions of the judiciary and influence the sentences. [[Applauds]] These are the three reasons. First, weaken the judiciary. It turns out that you want the General Council of the Judiciary not to have the power to appoint the presidents of the hearings, of the TSJs, of the National Court, the chamber presidencies, the judges of the Supreme Court, the judges of the Constitutional Court, the vice-president of the Supreme Court, the promoter of Disciplinary Action or the head of the Court Inspection. You don't want these charges to be named. This Thursday, the General Council of the Judiciary intends to appoint the president of the Social Hall of the National Audience, the president of the TSJ of Castilla y León based in Burgos, the president of the TSJ of Asturias and the president of the Provincial Audience of Cáceres, and you do not want them to be appointed, you want these posts to be vacant. What you want is to decapitate the judicial power, to kill the judicial power by starvation, that your leadership positions, the highest judicial branches of the judicial power, remain uncovered. If we join this in time, prolonged, that there will continue to be retirements, that there will continue to be deaths, that voluntary surpluses will be demanded, that some will move to special services, you want to sow chaos in the judiciary. The last three appointments made by the council were three judges of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. What, if European justice finally brings us to Puigdemont you don't want independent judges in the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court to be able to judge this fugitive from justice? Is that what you're playing at? Look, let this make it United We can, let it go to attack the judicial resolutions when you don't like it, let it say when I was in opposition that you want the system of choice of the vowels to be changed, more or less one can explain it, but let it be explained to you, that you have ruled Spain, that you lend yourselves to this game of attacking the independence of the judiciary is truly a shame. Indeed, we are no longer in the same Socialist Party that ruled Spain, we are in another party. Secondly, they try to pressure the People's Party to get them into the game and be able to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. What do they do? What you do many times: you sow in chaos, you blame this chaos on another and then you want to appear as savers of this chaos. We've seen it many other times. Have you not thought that the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary has collapsed? It's already collapsed. Wake up, for God's sake, from the dream of bipartisanism. We are no longer in bipartisanship, you can no longer divide yourselves ten for you and ten for me; you name whomever you want. The system has to change and we have proposed that reform: that these twelve members be appointed by judges and judges between judges and judges. If you would like to process that law - see how you have processed the Budgets Act, see how you have processed the Lomloe - in February this problem was solved, in February the General Council of the Judiciary was renewed, but you do not want to. And they don't want to, you know why? For the third reason, because they want to name their own. They want when an appointment is made by the General Council of the Judiciary someone in the Socialist Party, someone in the United We can, say: It is one of ours. You remember, don't you, the Scorsese movie? One of ours. Do you also remember what that movie was about? What you want is for that ignominious wasap of Cosidó to say that you are going to rule the Supreme Court to be sent by Mrs Lastra, Mr Simancas or Mr Echenique. That's what you want; you want the same thing that you have criticized the People's Party, exactly the same thing, but that's very serious, because when you want to dominate Spanish Television, Post Offices or Paradores it's a troupe, but when you try to dominate those people who are going to issue sentences, who can judge politicians for possible cases of corruption, the thing is very serious, and that's what you want to do; what you want to name your own. The spokesman for justice, Mr Aranda, comes up here and says this falsehood that the only legitimacy is in this Parliament and, therefore, we have to appoint all the members of the General Council of the Judiciary and this is the only possible system. No, no, Look, Mr. Aranda, read the Constitution, as you say to the People's Party; it says: Justice emanates from the people and is administered on behalf of the king by independent judges and magistrates, immobile, responsible and subject only to the rule of law. [[Applauds]] Not the empire of the executive power, not the empire of Mr Sánchez, not the empire of Mr Iglesias. Independence. And you say that it is not you who lead in the opposite direction, that it is not you who commit suicide, when the European Association of Judges, when all the associations of judges, when everyone thinks that justice should be depoliticised. Commissioner Reynders, last week in the Commission of the European Union, said that Europe was very concerned about the bias being taken by the reform of the judiciary in Spain. He said you should count on the opposition, and you want to appoint the twenty members of the General Council of the Judiciary by an absolute majority and in the meantime deprive the Council of appointment powers. Leave justice alone, Mr. Aranda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u57	Thank you very much, President. Sometimes I agree with Mr Bal, not many, but I agree that the system of choice is collapsed. That's why we're in the situation we're in: a party playing hortelano dog, neither renewing nor letting renew; a party that's obstructing, embarrassing, blocking the election of expired members and which is also allowed to say who can be in the negotiation and who can't. But who did you think is the People's Party? A party that today, only today - and it is every day - has been condemned and has paid 245 000 euros for its conviction; a party that today is in the courts for trying to erase evidence with reserved funds. Is that party the one that has to say who can be and who can't be? [[Applauds]] I'm done. Why don't you quit the council? Or, as Mr. Iñarritu said, why don't we stop him? Finally, why don't we come up with new formulas so that we're not four years out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. The next item is Mr Errejón Galván. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In our view, the Government made a mistake in purporting to alter the majorities so that the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary would depend on less qualified majorities, and I am proud to say that we claim it as the only progressive force that said it, that it said that the governments are passing through, that it said that no majority is external, that what today are limits are guarantees and that this reform could become a boomeran when the majorities change. Today I am glad that you have rectified and that you have brought a proposal that is entirely reasonable: that the limits that apply to the other powers apply also to the appointments made by the General Council of the Judiciary. Of course I think we need a reform of the judiciary!, but it has to go to the root of the issue. Today we talked a lot about how the vowels are appointed. I also want to deal with an issue that is never discussed, where the vowels come from, and where those who have access to the judicial career come from. Which family can afford ten years of studies without scholarships, without paying a single euro because their studies are of exclusive dedication, spending thousands of euros on preparers and on agendas? Well, very few, and almost always... [[Rumors]] Don't worry, some of yours sure is. But he said that very few, and almost always then of the same environments, and that bias definitively marks the character of Spanish justice, which in that case resembles very little real society. Only when it seems entirely like the drawing system will it be a fully democratic system. To democratize justice is also to democratize access to those who can reach the judicial career. That is why we propose a judicial mir and a public academy, so that opponents can be trained with accessible fees and earning a decent wage during their years of preparation, so that the origin of those who arrive in the judiciary can also be extended. I close with one thing, gentlemen of the People's Party. This blockade is entirely his fault. You are abducting the institutions and laughing at popular sovereignty, and you are doing so for a pre-democratic and patrimonialist conception of the Spanish State and political power according to which it is only legitimate if it belongs to them and if it does not belong to them it is never legitimate. They say here with the small mouth that it is, but they act by abducting institutions as if it were not, and this is nothing new. I remember the 'go away, Mr. González', the 'Zapatero, go away with your grandfather', and now we have the deal with this government. Gentlemen of the People's Party, has there ever been a government that, without being yours, has been legitimate and treated as legitimate? Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u60	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u61	Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, yours is exciting. The Titanic is sinking and they worry about the music repertoire that musicians can play. If this goes from the reform of the judiciary, you already know the formula - it was explained, Mr Asens, and it is published in the Diario.es of October 15, two months ago -: let us name in this Chamber the twelve vowels of judicial origin, let us name them in the same way that we name the tables, that is, so that each deputy can only appoint six vowels, with which we ensure plurality. And if the law insists on further blocking, it can only block the eight members for whom the Constitution requires a qualified majority; eight members who, by the way, should not be judges, but lawyers and other jurists, to put that counterweight, as provided for in the Constitution. We have a judicial power with many problems, Mr Errejón explained: problem of access to the judiciary, problem of effective controls to prevent politicization and make the courts politically neutral. It is a justice that seems proper to the Earl of Romanes; let us remember: to the indifferent, and only to the indifferent, we apply the legislation in force, because to the enemy - I will say it softer - I strangle him and to the friend I slap the chanchullo. But it is that the problem is not only of the judicial power, the problem is the frank decadence - and I say well, 'franca' - of the powers of the 'defranked' state, starting with the military in the reserve who would like to 'fly 26 million sons of bitches' - I don't know if they have done the math, but I fear that all of you are also within this contingent -; a fine-tuning prosecutor who has become an advertiser of 'The Verdugo' turrons; a security force and a police force every day more patriotic and less democratic; a doped media that aligns with the most backward theses in that inmundo empire of the without Reason; a church that is among the legionaries and the'scrivans' - of Balaguer -; a 'florentino' and 'faesistas' economic powers, and a Crown that fortunately has no vote, but, as you know, has an excess of voice. [[pointing to the left half of the Chamber]] This is the real Spain. Lords of the PSOE, wake up, because for all these, for the blues, the greens and the oranges, you are not part of the equation and to which you can go for you too. And friends and friends of Podemos, you wanted to storm the skies, but you're so chained to the caste that today you've changed it for the swallow. [[Rumors]] Break the chains and go back to the squares. Finally, I hope that this year 2020 will end and that, at the end of this year, all of you will enter the twenty-first century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u62	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u63	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. The General Council of the Judiciary has been in office for two years. Its president has been illegal for two years. Two years ago, the Government should have renewed it and it was not courageous, and now we are facing an expired General Council of the Judiciary, which has camped to its breadth, doing and undoing its will, fingering its fellow citizens, securing its conservative and ultra-right hegemony. Precisely those who ensure or must ensure compliance with the law are the first to miss it. All the scandals that precede the members of the General Council of the Judiciary are public and notorious, especially the members appointed by the People's Party, from militants of the Popular Alliance, such as Carmen Llombart, or José María Macías, the strong man of Married in the current General Council of the Judiciary, and all the rest, who leaves no one indifferent. And what about your president, Mr. Carlos Lesmes, who owes most of his career to the People's Party! He was a senior member of the PP government in the Ministry of Justice, under the orders of all the ministers of the branch appointed by José María Aznar: Margarita Mariscal de Gante, Ángel Acebes and José María Michavila. At the head of the General Council of the Judiciary, Lesmes has not only taken advantage of his majority to place conservative judges in many of the key positions of justice, but has also moved threads in favor of the PP, which he has helped in many of his judicial problems. It was the General Council of the Judicial Power of Lesmes that decided to remove Pablo Ruz from the National Court after ordering a register against the headquarters of the PP, who pressed for Gomez Bermúdez not to be able to investigate box B, who removed the judge of the Gürtel, Ricardo de Prada, from the decision as to whether Luis Bárcenas's wife was going to prison. Come on, Lesmes did everything the People's Party told him. Although not all because, contrary to what former Minister Rafael Catalá asked, he did not block Mariano Rajoy's interrogation as a witness to the Gürtel case. A good example of judicial independence in which the PP so much believes and fills his mouth. But it is that the current government of the PSOE and United We can be complicit in this because it has been allowed for two years. And don't try to transfer responsibility to the rest of the parties because it's you, ladies and gentlemen who have the responsibility and the obligation. But, of course, a veiled blanket covers the eyes of the government when it comes to protecting the sewers of the state, where Lesmes moves so well. It is therefore urgent that the judiciary stop doing politics and get its hands off politics. The judicial summit has not been elected by the citizens; let it be limited to doing its job and let us do our policy, to those we have been democratically elected. We are sick of seeing how the state's cloacas, with the cooperation of the judiciary, influence politics and act to favor the big lobbies, who look elsewhere when corruption in certain sectors, such as that of the monarchy, is so scandalous and flagrant. As for the Supreme Court, it is covered with glory with every decision it makes, and an example are our political prisoners, Carme Forcadell and Dolors Bassa. It bothers them that they can go out, that they can talk to people, that they explain the truth. And as it bothers them, they are suspended from the third grade and sent back to prison, despite the fact that the Prison Guard judge granted it to them. And in the same way he suspended the third degrees of our comrades Oriol Junqueras, Raül Romeva, Joaquim Forn and the rest of political prisoners. [[Applauds]] In any case, how naive you think that's how you'll shut us up! You, from your hate-stained pulpits, tolerate and consent to the corruption of the monarchy and allow the flight of the corrupt Bourbon, and even propitiate it. You understand that it is so hard for my group to understand this, because with almost ninety years of history we have no cases of corruption, and not everyone can say the same. [[Several Members: Uuuh!]] It's unfortunate. But look at the case of the recent president of the Diputació de Barcelona and mayor of L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Nuria Marín, of the PSC, who is so with the support of the former Convergence, let's say by the way. [[rumors]] A person who is stained with corruption is not legitimized to be president of the Barcelona City Council, the second strongest economic institution in the country. But if all this is not enough, in the last few hours we have been aware of a new democratic scandal. The Supreme Court wants to re-judge Arnaldo Otegi for the same facts. With this, what the Supreme Court is doing is prevaricating. [[Protests]] Do you know what it means...? How it bothers you, huh? Do you know what non bis in idem means? [[Protests Continue]] That no one can be judged by the same facts. That's first in criminal law. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Where has it been seen that a person is being tried, convicted, brought by the European Court of Human Rights, saying that the trial he had was not with all the guarantees and now they decide to repeat the trial because they do not like the resolution? [[Protests]] Come on, the Supreme Court is charging itself with human rights like this, with a pen, although it's not the first time. This reminds me of the famous phrase of Marx, not of the philosopher but of Groucho Marx: These are my principles and if they do not like, I have others. It is evident the persecution of the State against anyone who does not think like him or, as in this case, attacking and persecuting the Basque and Catalan independenceists. The judiciary has an influence on politics and wants to change the electoral results: by removing the minutes to Oriol Junqueras, by suspending the third degree to Dolors and Carme or in relation to the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights and Otegi. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Your time's up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the Iberoosphere, the socialcommunism of the twenty-first century or castrochavism has endorsed the methodology applied for decades by the dictatorship of Cuba: the total control and manipulation of the judiciary that turn justice into a mechanism of repression and political persecution. How has it been possible to subject judges at first independent? Through enabling laws that are emptying of content the once firm guarantees that the constitutions contained. At present, justice systems in countries such as Cuba, Venezuela, Bolivia and Nicaragua prove that judges in those countries are enforcers of repression and protectors of impunity for members of the regime. The judiciary, called to guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens, has been converted by the dictatorships of 21st century socialcommunism into a repressive arm that has institutionalized fear, systematic violation of human rights, political prisoners - the real ones -, persecution of the dissident and the dictatorship of one thought. The judges are executioners, the trials are lynchings, the defendants are victims and, democracy? Democracy dies when the judiciary falls. [[Applauds]] Because they are, precisely, the independent judges the last line of defense of the freedom of societies, of societies in freedom. That is the reproach that today they call justice in the countries of the iberosphere dominated by the socialism of the twenty-first century. Following my beloved and admired Carlos Sánchez Berzaín, a persecuted and exiled politician from Bolivia, this is the reproach that today they call justice in one of the two Americas, the one formed by the countries that, led by Castroism from Cuba, are authentic dictatorships of organized crime that exert power criminally as a system of transnational organized crime. They are friends of former President Rodríguez Zapatero and also of Vice President Pablo Iglesias. [[Applauds]] Tell me, ladies, does that sound distant to you? Do you feel like something else? For I have just described to you the new Spain that is born in this House today. Today socialcommunism gives an institutional coup d'état from Moncloa itself, using a legislative power kidnapped to, precisely, approve an enabling law that empties the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and that ends with the independence of the judiciary in Spain. Today, our justice ceases to be independent and a painful path of degradation is begun to become a mechanism of political repression and persecution, with a single objective, that of the proponents of this initiative, and that it is none other that the judges are at the service and are an instrument of protection for the members of the regime. The same path that our brotherly peoples have already taken in Cuba, Venezuela, Nicaragua and Bolivia; the only path to the destruction of the rights and freedoms that socialcommunism knows. A little over a year ago, almost four million Spaniards placed their trust in VOX and we promised them that we would act as an authentic containment dam, we promised them that we would act without fear of anything and anyone, giving the battle for Spain and for the Spaniards. Already on the same election night of November 10, 2019, we said loud and clear that the qualitative change is that, thanks to that confidence of the Spaniards, we had obtained more than fifty deputies, that number that sets our Constitution at least in order to be able to appeal to the High Court against the laws adopted by this House and the autonomous parliaments. What we have promised we have fulfilled and in these twelve months the VOX Parliamentary Group has lodged eleven appeals before the Constitutional Court, eleven of which I will highlight: amparo appeal against the formulas of those Members who more than swearing in against the Spanish Constitution; amparo appeal against the kidnapping of Congress agreed five days after the first state of alarm was imposed; an appeal for unconstitutionality against the inclusion of Mr. Pablo Iglesias in the commission that controls the CNI; an appeal for unconstitutionality against the first state of the weapon and against the second state of alarm, decreed for six months; amparo appeal against the authorization of this House which, using the parliamentary roll, has kidnapped the Spanish people for a period of six months and prevented President Sánchez from appearing before this House, as required by the Constitution, every fifteen days and yes for a period of two months. None of these eleven appeals have been resolved by the High Court. And do you know what we've been up against? We have met with a Constitutional Court kidnapped, kidnapped by the parties to whom the chairs and their appointments owe, People's Party and Socialist Party, in some cases with the support of Convergence i Unió. And what do we have in this House today? We have Podemos, through Mr. Asens, crying bitterly because he wants his piece of cake. I love your tears progress, Mr. Asens. [[Applauds]] I am going to address the judges of the Constitutional Court and I am now speaking as a representative of the Spanish people, on behalf of my parliamentary group, to announce to them something that has not been said in this House by any of the parties that have expressed their opposition to this bill, some because they do not have enough Members and others because, although they have it, as always, they have great speeches but few coherent actions. The fifty-two deputies of VOX will appeal to the Constitutional Court this infamous proposal for a law that only assaults the judiciary! [[Applauds]] And from being able to be kidnapped, we tell the judges of the Constitutional Court to break their chains because their chains are much easier to break, because the tolls they had to pay for their appointments cannot include the overthrow of our democracy, and that is what they are allowing by inhibiting their historical responsibility. As a legislative power, VOX urges them to comply with their constitutional obligation, because when they are most needed, when the need for their existence becomes more evident is when they are abandoning the Spanish people. We do not intend to pressure them, ladies and gentlemen, because we are not the PSOE, we are not the PP and we are not Podemos, but we do tell them to comply with their constitutional obligation and resolve, because with their silence they are not aware of what they are putting at stake, and if they are, if they are aware, that history will judge them for their complicity with the institutional coup that is being perpetrated in our nation. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u66	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u67	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the no-law proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the consolidation of temporary public employment. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u68	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We present to you for consideration an initiative on the stabilization of long-term public employment, which is estimated in the general public administration as a whole to be 800 000 interim officials out of a total of 2.6 million. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that this remarkable long-term interim payment, which is a unique and exceptional circumstance, requires a solution, and is more than plausible in cases of abusive chaining of successive contracts. The situation, which is already serious in itself, also calls for an early approach following the recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 March and the judgment of 30 September. In these judgments, the Court of Justice shows that the abuse of temporary recruitment of staff in the service of public administrations constitutes a breach of clause 5 of the Framework Agreement on fixed-term work, clause 5 which limits the successive and abusive use of fixed-term contracts, calls for measures to be taken to ensure that compensation and redress are not re-produced and provides for compensation to victims of abuse with effective and proportionate measures; all of these measures are to be taken by each Member State, or by its courts in accordance with its national law, or by ex novo legal measures addressing the consequences of such abuse and to prevent it from happening thereafter. Ladies and gentlemen, in this scenario of measures to be taken, the initiative we are presenting to you is based on the adoption of ex novo legal measures, as the existing stabilisation processes are not always adequate solutions to the general problem facing the various public administrations. Firstly, because it cannot be applied to interim staff appointed after 1 January 2005 and, in addition, we believe that a 2020 problem cannot be solved with a fifteen-year perspective, when, moreover, a large part of the problem has been made worse by successive replacement rates imposed, which has led to vacancies in uniquely public services linked to the welfare State being provided by this type of staff, in order to avoid the deterioration of the benefits of citizenship. Secondly, the stabilisation processes provided for in the current legal order are not always adequate to stabilise long-term and contract-chaining templates, in accordance with clause 5 of the framework agreement and the decisions of the Court of Justice of the Union, since their organisation is empowering for public administrations and does not take into account the consequences of the infringement of Union law in relation to candidates who are victims of abuse. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that addressing the situation of abuse of long-term inadmissibility in the public sector calls for an ex novo regulation that gives an adequate response to the rules and decisions of the Court of Justice of the Union that allows, in a proportionate and effective manner, to repair the victims of abuse; ex novo regulation that the processes of stabilization of temporary employment do not call into question the efficiency of public services, and even less their continuity, and that do not result in squandering the knowledge and human capital of people with many years of temporary work and service in public employment; ex novo legislation in which each public administration must be able to set up its own personnel policy without, of course, of the necessary elements of cohesion and the precise coordination instruments; ex novo regulation that also avoids the permanent micro-conflict that is now suffering and, finally, new regulation that also allows for the control of the temporality of public employment to avoid further exchanges of abusive temporary employment and that thus brings us closer to the different public sectors of each administration to the European goal of reduction of time at a rate of 8 %. I will conclude, President and ladies and gentlemen. The various public administrations are faced with a unique and exceptional circumstance that needs a coherent response with the same effectiveness of the provision of public services, with compliance with European rules and resolutions of the Court of Justice of the Union, with the articulation of our territorial constitution and for other legitimate constitutional purposes, and to this end we propose for your consideration this initiative in whose specific terms a compromise text has been reached with various groups of this House and which we trust will be able to count on the satisfaction of the rest. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by its groups, the Plural Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place, which will also lay down its position. That is why Mr Rego Candamil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we agree with the analysis of the proponents of this GNP, the Basque Nationalist Party. It is clear that there is a high percentage of temporary public workers and that it is up to the public authorities to provide a solution that guarantees the rights of public employees, but also the quality of the service they provide. There are sectors of public administration where this rate of temporality is already unabated. This is the case of public health, a particularly sensitive sector at the time of the pandemic in which we live. The data relating to Galicia speak for themselves. Over the past six years the weight of temporary workers in all staff has risen to 40,2 % when the European objective is not to exceed 8 %. The steady increase in temporality was also reflected in expenditure. Between 2012 and 2018, expenditure on statutory staff increased by 5.62%, while expenditure on labour personnel fell by 48.26 %. Legal reforms should indeed be made to lower the rate of temporaryity, but such a solution will only be effective if the replacement rate is eliminated and then negotiated a multi-annual employment plan to increase the number of stable staff and new jobs, all of which, logically, are agreed in accordance with the areas of negotiation of each country at the autonomous sectoral tables.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the Basque Nationalist Party, its parliamentary group and, in particular, Mr Legarda for presenting this initiative. In fact, it is an issue that should have been resolved for a long time. Beyond the different judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, we should not have waited for these judgments to resolve an issue that is not in fact new, although it is indeed getting worse as time goes on and it is not being resolved. Legislative initiatives to address the problem of the temporary nature of employment in the public administration, of interim workers with a precarious situation in their jobs, have been tried through the fourth transitional provision of the same EBEP, as well as through the State General Budgets Act of 2017, but it is obvious that they have been solutions that have not been able to tackle or solve the problem. The initiative that we have ended up trading is a good starting point if the Government is willing to tackle this problem, which is not easy, because, obviously, if it were, this would already be resolved. We have joined and we are convinced that it will be the trigger for the Government to take an initiative, with the necessary consensus, of course, respecting the autonomy of each of the different levels of administration - local administration, administration of the Generalitat and autonomous administration - but this cannot wait. The reality is this. We would have liked a greater degree of concreteness in the proposal, but we think it is a good thing. Our parliamentary group also has different proposals under way in the various committees. In fact, we wanted to bring a legislative proposal, but we are not going to do so as soon as we expect the government to react shortly. In any case, like the rest of the signatory groups, we will be alert to the Government's activity or inactivity in this regard. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u73	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I have the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u74	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We share the need to tackle and resolve the very high rate of temporaryity in public employment, which has even merited a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and which, as the proposal describes, is causing the accumulation of claims that only contribute to the judicial collapse. But there are a number of previous considerations that we do believe we should make. If the goal in employment is to achieve decent, well-paid and stable employment, it is shameful that public administrations have a higher rate of temporaryity than the sum of the rate of temporaryity of private enterprises. In the private sector we are at 21% temporary and in the public sector almost 27%, when the objective is to reach a maximum of 8%. There are no misperceptions or misleading data. Temporaryity in public administrations has risen by 4 points in the last four years. These are social rights and workers' rights that are in breach of the Administration itself as an employer. We must not only reverse the situation, but also assess what measures should be taken to sanction abuse in successive temporary relations and in the interim, and how we will eliminate the consequences of this abuse. On the other hand, although the operative part of the proposal has been modified due to the transaction, the proposal was in line with the EBEP. Here we must emphasize that this Basic Staff Regulations are all but basic, as they regulate all aspects except the purely accidental or technical aspects of the official relationship in all administrations. As usual, the exorbitant extension of the basic term used by the State violates, in our view, the powers of self-organization of the different administrations and, in particular, of the different governments deriving from the sovereignty of their parliaments. From this point of view, as we mentioned earlier, what we must call into question is the whole of the EBEP itself and we call on all parliamentary groups to take up this task. Going directly to the bottom of the issue, there are two relevant issues. On the one hand, what should be the solution and the time period to be covered. In this sense, we did not share the eight-year proposal of the previous wording, because it would probably be most appropriate to standardize it with the maximum period of employment contracts, which is three years, and which is also the maximum period provided for the calls for temporary posts, in accordance with Article 10 of the EBEP itself. Secondly, how do we sanction the apparent inability of administrations to comply with their own rules in a sufficient way and how do we compensate for the abuse they have suffered. Public managers have even more responsibility than in the private sphere and, in some ways, we must combat the feeling of impunity by leaving office or directly by the inefficiency that exists in our citizens, often rightly. In other words, we share the view that public offers of employment are not a measure that mitigates abuses and can also have undesirable consequences for the very functioning of administrations. In other words, it is unfair for workers and can become very inconvenient for the administrations themselves. At this point it should be recalled that the purpose of public administrations is the pursuit of the common good and the provision of essential services for the community, so that their efficiency is an inherent condition for the purpose of that common good. We all agree that the conditions of publicity, merit, capacity and equality must prevail in the provision of public employment places, but we also agree that periods of temporaryity or long-term interims of up to seventeen years, or the chaining of hundreds of temporary contracts, are an obvious fraud of law. It is unthinkable that it is the Administration itself that commits not only the fraud of law, but also, as a resolution, a flagrant injustice against workers, who are again the most affected: compared to the 20% temporaryity of public workers, there are 32% of workers who suffer it. We have to put a solution to this, and soon. We will, of course, vote in favour of the text, because it has been negotiated and we appreciate its presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u75	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it is quite obvious that we have a serious problem of temporality. It's an objective fact, the numbers are there and some have already been commented on. There is a rate of more than 20% in general; in sectors such as health, close to 50% and, in sectors such as education, close to 30%. This requires urgent solutions, among other things, as has also been mentioned, because Europe obliges us to do so. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in March 2020, mentioned above, does not give a very good place to the practices carried out by the Spanish State in this field in recent years, and obliges us to resolve this situation as soon as possible. We believe that solutions must necessarily involve two aspects, as has been said in one of the previous interventions. On the one hand, there is a need to establish mechanisms to prevent this situation from happening again in the future. In this regard, the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service has already reported that an amendment to article 10 of the EBEP is under consideration to address this situation. On the other hand, there is also a need to respond to the existing situation and, in particular, to the situation of workers, who are, as has been said, the main victims of these practices. This solution must be dialogued and negotiated at all levels, with the parties of this House, with the autonomous communities, with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, with the trade unions and with the collectives affected by these situations. In addition, the solutions proposed should be common to all administrations. Arbitrariness must also be avoided, inter alia, in order to force certain administrations to implement them, which systematically attack public services and which have used these policies as a way of saving money at the expense of the quality of service and of workers. In the end, for the sake of quality of service, but also in order to avoid situations of aggravation and discrimination between workers in one administration and another, we believe that arbitrariness must be avoided and that solutions must be common and applied to all administrations. They must also be solutions that respect the principles of equality, merit and capacity set out in our Constitution for the recruitment of public personnel, but they must also take into account the specific situation in which the workers concerned find themselves. As has been said, these people are not to blame for the situation in which they find themselves. This situation has to do with a series of austerity policies carried out for years by the public administrations, which did not hire staff when there were retirements or when, for other reasons, they ceased to hold positions, and came under the temporary staff contract. This has been prolonged over time and has not been resolved, and we are now in this situation. Since it is not a problem that they have generated, they cannot be doubly victims of this situation, and therefore we are indebted to them, first, because they have done a job that has had an impact on the benefit of society as a whole; secondly, because the human capital represented by these workers with the experience and knowledge they accumulate cannot be wasted, as has been said, but above all on an empathetic issue. In the meetings we have had with them and they we have often encountered situations that are really dramatic. In what they insist on us, and I think that with all the reason of the world, it is that they are not squares, they are not numbers, they are people, they are families and they are people who have a life; many times people older than fifty years who are afraid to lose their job, because they know that if they lose it they will have many difficulties to reintegrate into the labour market. Therefore, we must also take this into account within the solutions that are given. To sum up - and to conclude - that we recognize the problem and give an urgent solution; that this solution serves both to avoid repetition and to restore the current situation; that it is a solution that must be negotiated with the autonomous communities, with the FEMP, with the trade unions and with the affected groups; and that it is a solution that combines respect for the constitutional principles of equality, merit and capacity with not leaving the affected workers behind. On that path you will find our group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs De Luna Tobarra has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Basque Parliamentary Group, we must point out that the stabilization of public employment has been a concern for my parliamentary group and for the Government of the People's Party. It was precisely the Government of the People's Party that, in March 2017 and 2018, reached two major agreements, the first and the second, for the stabilization and consolidation of public employment with the majority public administration unions - Cesic, Workers' Commissions and UGT - in order to reduce the temporality and to strengthen the stability of the staff. This selective process would be carried out through competition-opposition, a selective process which is exceptional and which is in force until 31 December next year. Therefore, there was no need to open another exceptional process as the PNV intended, in the original operative part of its GNP, which they have now modified, we assume because we have warned this error. It was in the Law on General Budgets of 2017 and 2018 that the calls for the stabilization of temporary and temporary places occupied prior to 31 December 2017 were established. Therefore, it is also not true - as they say in the explanatory statement - that the current process cannot be applied to the interims that were appointed after 1 January 2005; nor was it necessary for another call to be made in order to include the interims appointed before January 2018, as you said, since - as I have just pointed out - it covers all those who are before 31 December 2017; a circumstance that they have also noticed and that is why they have absolutely changed the small sum of their GNP. This process of stabilization of the governments of the People's Party remains in effect by the Royal Decree-Law 23/2020 - a few months ago - of 23 June, article 11 of which states that, on an exceptional basis, the authorization for the execution of the processes of stabilization of temporary employment provided for in the General Budget Acts of 2017 and 2018, whose expiry occurs in 2020, is understood to be extended until the end of next year. That is why we do not understand why the PNV presents a temporary employment consolidation GNP when there is already one in force. In addition, this stabilisation process has been expressly re-collected in the 2021 State General Budgets - in particular in the twenty-third additional provision - for which you have been decisively approved. On 6 November, the Secretary of State speaking of temporality explained that as well as in the State it does not reach 8%, which is the top that was established by the Government of the People's Party with the majority unions of the Administration, where more is given is in the autonomous communities, with 36.66, and in the local entities, with 12.48. We understand that these processes must be actively promoted and must also be carried out by opposition competition, because, on the one hand, it allows us to rate as merit the time that has been in the Administration with the performance of these services and at the same time the constitutional principles of free competition, merit, capacity and publicity are being guaranteed; opposition competition that has also recently been endorsed by two rulings of the Supreme Court, of 17 and 30 September 2020, respectively, in which it is said to be a means of access precisely for the Public Service. Finally, and with regard to situations in which there may be possible law fraud and abuse in the temporary hiring of public employment, we believe that measures should be taken to prevent it from occurring, but also that it must be the Ministry of Public Service that carries out a thorough and thorough analysis of specific situations and also establishes criteria on what is meant by such abuse or by such law fraud. On the other hand, we understand that both the solutions that can be applied and the consequences of this law fraud will have to be addressed at the General Bureau for the negotiation of public administrations, in which the unions of the Administration, the autonomous communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces participate. I would point out to you that my group, as you know, has tabled amendments in which we have taken up what I have just said to you: to continue the stabilization process and that the cases in which there may have been a legal fraud are analysed, studied and evaluated by communities, local authorities and trade unions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u80	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start by speaking on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and on my own behalf, once again expressing respect and gratitude to the public workers in our country in general and today in particular to all those who are working for citizenship on an interim, temporary or non-indefinite basis. It is always good to recognize it, because look at what this means in the pandemic. By focusing the debate, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is necessary to recognize among all that we have a major problem in all the administrations of our country, but primarily in the autonomous communities and in the local corporations; there is a serious problem of temporality. A large stock of temporary employment has been generated in our country, reaching around 700,000 people, and we need to respond. By stating in detail what it means, 36.19% of the workers in the autonomous communities are acting, 28% in the local corporations and 7.1 in the AGE, in the General Administration of the State. The only administration that fulfils the European idea that employment should reach a maximum of 8% is the General Administration of the State. I have heard here some issues that we have to recognise, which I believe everyone will recognise. This Government, the current Government of Spain, is concerned and is dealing with this issue, and this parliamentary group was also the first to bring to this Parliament, in August, a non-legislative proposal in which we came to say two fundamental things: the first, that we should all assume that there was a problem and that solutions had to be given. This non-legislative proposal was adopted last October, with the abstention of the People's Group and the VOX Group. Of course, there has been a difference with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union last March, but this Government and this group have been working since before the promulgation of this judgment in this regard. When there is a problem we have all expressed that there is no other remedy than to find a solution. For this there is no other way than from dialogue, from the wisdom, with the participation of the public administrations, of all, and also of course with the social partners, with the trade union centres. It is the only solution to be able to deal with it effectively and above all by demonstrating that there is a will. The Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, has a will. Last week the Secretary of State for Territorial Policy and Public Service, at the parliamentary seat in the Senate, announced a principle of agreement within the Sectoral Commission of Public Administrations, which since June 11 agreed that this problem should be addressed under dialogue and consensus. For what? For two fundamental questions. The first, to amend the Basic Staff Regulations, Article 10, to allow once and for all that what is evidence today does not happen again. In other words, there can never again be such a high exchange of time in public administrations. It is not worthy for the system nor, of course, for the workers. And second, to give a legal solution to what current workers mean in time. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Legarda for both the presentation of the initiative and his contribution to the dialogue and the achievement of an amendment that we have tabled and signed as a parliamentary group on these three aspects: to amend the rules, to comply with what the European Court of Justice says, to implement a constitutional solution so that we can respond to the workers and to do so from the point of view of consensus and dialogue, because it is here that the General Administration of the State is already fulfilling. It is therefore the regional and local administrations that must, after these legislative amendments, fulfil this mandate. So, ladies and gentlemen, with that will, with that hand extended that the answer is in all of us - today is a good time to push it forward from this Parliament - I would like and encourage it to be unanimously, so that we can give a serious, consensus-based and effective response to all public employment, in this case to temporary workers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u81	Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. Firstly, Nueva Canarias wishes to welcome the successful initiative of the Basque Parliamentary Group to present a non-legislative proposal on a matter that requires it because, apart from the feeling that this has been resolved by the whole world for a long time, what is true is that this situation has been prolonging for more than a decade and is seriously affecting public services and seriously affecting the labour rights of temporary public employees. This is a recurring situation, not new. This has been re-accumulated, but previous accumulations have already occurred that have also had to be resolved through extraordinary procedures. Therefore, the vice of origin is that of not convoking with due diligence and with short periods of time open processes, respecting the constitutional principles of equal opportunities, merit and capacity. When that is not done, what happens is a situation like this, which is the product of the following perversion. It is known that there are permanent vacancies in the civil service. They are covered by temporary contracts, knowing that the need for the square is, of course, permanent and then the public contracts are repeated to infinity, so that, in the end, what is being done is to commit a tremendous perversion with a square that is necessary - because it is so determined - covered by people who do not have recognition of their labor rights, at least. Then, what happens is a situation of abuse; an abuse of the law and an abuse of the labour rights of temporary workers. Today I was listening to a healthcare professional, a pointer in the Canary Islands, who said that in fourteen years he had had sixteen contracts. Spectacular. This is therefore a situation that needs to be corrected once again; once again because there has been no diligence in public administrations to publish recurrent public calls to meet the obvious needs of the public sector. If the situation is abusive - and in this it seems to me that everyone agrees because I have heard the term used in general - and extraordinary, the solution must be extraordinary. Because, of course, to go now to an open process of recognition of the principles of equal opportunity, merit and capacity seriously harms the rights of those people who have been working and pulling chestnuts out of the fire, often with too much work in their services - and this is what I know - who are left at the feet of horses in a process in which they can no longer compete on equal opportunities. Therefore, if the situation is extraordinary, the solution must be extraordinary and, moreover, as the non-law proposal says, for once; for once only until it happens again if we continue with the walks. An extraordinary process must be remembered that respects the constitutional principles, but respects them within the collective that is trying to consolidate because otherwise, we are inflicting double damage on those who have provided public service, obviously relevant, for many years in bad personal conditions. There is also another issue that has been pointed out here and that is obvious. If this type of process is not carried out with a broad consensus among the actors involved, if it is not carried out with respect to the territorial areas and the competences of each one at each administrative and territorial level, then they will be called to failure, because for this type of process to work it is desirable that it be generalized processes, to be possible in the whole State and for once. If this is done, we will be able to speak again about the fact that public services and their places must be covered on an annual or biennial basis because, if not, we will repeat the same situation. This is what's been happening and now we've come this far. Everyone had the solution and we didn't know. This is an opportunity to resolve this and it is time to congratulate us on Mr Legarda's initiative. By the way, don't think that I hadn't thought of introducing her too, me and I guess a lot of other people, because the collective is mobilized. This is a matter of justice and I would like to think that we will be able to move it forward. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by welcoming the relevance of this debate. It was true that it was necessary to address this issue, it was necessary to address it for a long time, probably some who thought that it was necessary to address it almost from the beginning of time in the public administration. Mr Legarda has given some data which alone are eloquent in order to understand why this debate is relevant: he has spoken of 800,000 people in the Spanish State affected by the temporality or the interinity in the context of the performance of their task in the public administration. I will complement you with the reality that you and I come from. The Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has 50,000 people in interim, according to the trade unions; the Foral Community of Navarre has 15,000 people in interim, also according to the trade unions, and that is equivalent to 50% of the workers of the Basque civil service. Then again, we would have to see what else we can do to ensure greater stability and, therefore, dignity in jobs, because the measures that have so far probably been put here, but also there, in any of the two realities that I have outlined, are still being considered in the eyes of the trade unions, which have been demanding this situation to be regulated for a long time, as rachitic measures. For me to understand even better, I will say that the measures that have been proposed so far, for example for the framework of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country by the Basque Government - I hope that with this initiative that is being discussed here this can change, and I sincerely hope that it can change - were a stabilisation, a regularisation of 2000 people of 50 000 in total. It is not difficult to do an exercise of abstraction and think of a sort of The games of hunger, which we were going to summon each and every one of the people in this situation so that among them, in a Cainite struggle, they decided or could opt for any of those places because of how few they were. It is true that something needs to be done now and they have remembered with great interest that there are European judgments that demand it. There is one of the Court of Justice of the European Union, in March, which points this out - Mr Legarda has made this clear - and there is also a European standard of 1999, of the last century, which already required it and which already pointed out one of the ills of the civil service which has to do with temporary employment. Now that the Spanish State is willing to comply with what is required of it by what it moves from Europe, I would ask you to take less time to enforce or adapt these directives and transpositions to the reality of the Spanish State. They have already seen that it is not difficult and they have seen that they are able to repeat a trial and to do so even going beyond what the European Court had asked them to do. Us and us to our thing. [[Continues your intervention in Basque]] But as I was saying, in this consolidation process it is a good idea - that is why we are going to support the initiative, because we think it is important that the role of the trade unions - not only to listen to the trade unions - understand that it is not strange that we say so - but to listen to the trade unions and to take the proposals they are proposing, because when they put forward the consolidation processes and put them in a key that more intensely contemplates, for example, the antiquity for what they said they did not take advantage of all the effort invested in them and all the potential they have, they also put forward the practical evidence. It is also quite logical that people have the opportunity to show their expertise and ability in that place for which they opt for a job. We also believe that the vetoes and legal impediments must be lifted so that the negotiating tables can meet, which is something that is now quite costly to do. We also believe that the Temporary Worker Statute needs to be reformed, which is something the unions have been asking for. In conclusion, I have already said that we are going to support this initiative and that the debate is relevant, but I think we should take one more step in this direction. And the most important step is not how many more initiatives we are putting in place now, but let us reflect on how we have come here and who have brought us here. Because, probably, if we hadn't copied into the administration the logic of the labor culture of the neoliberal model we would have found a very different reality. Because if many governments in many different places did the same things they would not have understood that following the logic of the neoliberal market in the public administration implies that jobs for many people are short-term, according to demand, and not as structural jobs, we would not encounter these rates of temporality that we are currently enduring and suffering. We would probably banish, once and for all, the continuing risk of the public administration and the basic public services of any so-called democratic society, which is called privatization; the privatization of basic services, which make us enjoy dignity in our own lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u85	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A preview for the speaker who has preceded me in the course of the floor. The place of a terrorist is, passing through the courthouse, in prison. [[Applauds]] Since the beginning of this session my parliamentary group has repeatedly reiterated the deterioration of public employment within the administration. The situation is very alarming, proof of this, for example, is the current indefinite strike of health workers in the Canary Islands and the concentrations that are taking place throughout Spain of public employees. Specifically, we have one today at the door of this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen of PSOE and Podemos, you are ruling, this collective is at the door. Stop with your intentions and act, don't worry so much and take more care of them. That is why, first of all, we have urged the Government to improve a number of issues which it can no longer expect to resolve. We are talking about the politicization of the high offices of the Administration, the absence of the real professional career within it and, above all, the issue of this non-legislative proposal: the intolerable abuse that is occurring with regard to temporality and which affects a very high number of public employees, more than 800,000 families. Families that, for example, cannot ask for a mortgage loan to acquire, nothing more and nothing less, than a regular home and that are engaged in unsafe work without anyone giving them a solution for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, they are not temporary workers, they have been there for many years, more than a decade, performing these functions; they are also not temporary. This is a fraud. And do you know who this fraud affects? To our health workers, to whom we pay so much tribute; to our teachers and to many other essential workers who are giving everything in the fight against COVID. You don't eat tributes. Ladies and gentlemen, we must improve the inspection of services to ensure that this abuse does not occur and, of course, create a sanctioning regime that does not depend on the same administration, because no one can guarantee impartiality if the sanctioner is the same as the sanctioned one. Today this is at the minister's table, it has been there for a long time and we will not forget; we cannot turn our backs on these more than 800,000 families. In this regard, and taking advantage of the frantic handling of the State's General Budgets, we had the opportunity to question these matters to senior officials of the Ministry of Civil Service and Territorial Policy who also appeared in the Commission. After listening to the intervention of the same our Parliamentary Group Citizens finally decided to present various amendments to the General Budgets of the State, in order to propose solutions to this very serious situation. We're always in the solutions. Of course, these amendments were vetoed by the Government. The situation of our public workers, by the way, has been denounced on several occasions, and I do not say that, as many speakers have said, and so has the Court of Justice of the European Union. One of the most forceful rulings on this subject was delivered on 19 March this year, also mentioned in the statement of reasons for the GNP. It denounced the unfair situation regarding the abuse of the temporary nature of hiring public workers. This, said by Europe, is a fraud. The Government has to deal with this problem, and it has to deal with it now. Our public workers deserve a just and objective solution. Aren't you the workers' government? Didn't they stand up as such? No more excuses, no more extensions, no more headlines. This is for yesterday. We must address the administrative consolidation of temporary public employees into law fraud through their automatic conversion into fixed indefinite staff or through the convening of an extraordinary restricted merit competition. Moreover, this is not going to have a significant cost to the public coffers, because they are places that are already created. The initiative proposed by the PNV at its origin, with its original wording, was in this sense, which, moreover, was an option already contemplated by the EBEP itself, and to us it seemed fair, albeit scarce. Now, with the compromise amendment proposed by the Socialist Party, the initiative has basically become a headline, with no intention of becoming a reality. The PSOE has turned this initiative into wet paper, which was initially good. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution to this serious problem is urgent and cannot leave any public workers behind. Our commitment as a party and my staff to the interim will be much deeper than the content of the initiative we are going to adopt. I conclude by telling you that we will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal, being aware that the proposal is not a solution to the problem. That is why we are going to present our own concrete proposals with precise solutions so as not to leave any public workers behind. We will soon discuss them in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Cambronero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr de Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u88	Coming from the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Group, in view of the amendment that you tabled this morning, which radically changes the operative part of the GNP, you have been told that the VOX Group will vote in favour of the compromise that you have tabled. From now on, it is up to the Government of the nation to agree with the rest of the public administrations and with the representation of the workers on the measures to be taken in the relevant bill. It must not be forgotten that the problem of interinity and temporality has been coming for many years. Already in Law 30/1984, on measures for the reform of the civil service, transitional provisions were laid down to consolidate precisely the temporality. They were executed in that way, the Constitutional Court pronounced itself and we have been fattening the ball for years and years, and the governments, one after another, very good words, but, in the end, they have done nothing. And what scares me is that the current government, which has very good words, does nothing, because, as has been recalled before, in 2017 and early 2018 the framework agreements for the improvement of employment in the public sector were signed, but the socialist government has been doing two and a half years and at this time has not complied with any of those agreements and has done nothing. In any case, as I say, we are going to vote in favour, although we understand that this is not ideal. Much has been said here about figures and even almost in a demagogic way about the situation of temporary and temporary staff. Where employment within the public sector is most precarious is in public universities, whose temporality rate is 44%. If we exclude administrative staff, more than half of the teaching staff in public universities is temporary. And that, all those contracts that are made by course, and so on, with what has been talked about here, we're not going to fix it. In the autonomous communities, the rate of temporality is 36%, and, for the autonomous communities, the areas of their public sectors where there is more temporality correspond to health, non-university education and to a lesser extent justice. But, of course, in health, if you read not the Basic Staff Regulations of the Public Employee, but the Staff Regulations of the Public Health Service, you will see that they distinguish three types of temporary staff: on the one hand, the temporary staff, which is the same as the temporary staff we all know; on the other hand, the contingent staff, and, on the other hand, the staff for replacements. Well, with all this talking you can solve the problem of the interim that is occupying a staff position. But where abuse exists is in contingent personnel, because they don't hold a post and that's why they've been like this for years, because their posts, as they don't exist, never go out against each other. I think we'll all meet some doctor who made the career in his day, then the MIR and stayed as temporary in a hospital. The Member of the Canary Islands said earlier that he knows one who chains sixteen contracts. I know doctors from Valdecilla who have been as eventuals for years, but the opposition never comes out because they don't occupy jobs. The first thing to do, therefore, is to oblige the administrations of the autonomous communities, which are responsible for public health services, to develop the corresponding job relationships, which are appropriate to the services they provide, and, once these staffing tables are made and the possible staff are assigned to those jobs, we can talk about giving them a solution. The more complicated is, of course, the staff who are for replacements, unless specific positions are created to make replacements. In any case, when the Government presents the bill to us, it will be necessary to see what measures will be taken, because, as I say, not all are equal in the field of temporality in public administrations. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u89	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte, do you accept any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u90	Not in principle, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u91	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the adoption of the social and health impact in the face of the growing proliferation of apostas and game rooms. [[File number 162/000165]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u92	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on addressing the social and health impact in the face of the growing proliferation of gambling houses and playrooms. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mr Vicente Viondi.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u93	Very good afternoon to everyone and everyone. My first words were to transfer them to my parliamentary group, and I am grateful that we have brought to this House a debate that is in society. The obligation of both the Government and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is the main force behind this Government, is to bring what is on the street to the debate in Parliament, so thanks to my parliamentary group for bringing the issue of the game, which is on our streets, which is in our day to day. [[Applauds]] To talk about the game, we have to look back. A decade ago the game was different from how we conceived it now. It was just the slot machines, a bingo or some casino. But the arrival of the smartphone and the avalanche of the game multinationals contributed to the game law and some autonomous laws being out of date, and today we look at the problem of the game in a very different way than we did ten years ago. Today - what was not ten years ago - is a real issue that concerns many citizens and has become a social problem. It is true, and it is fair to admit, that we did not put the necessary protection barrier to contain the inexorable advance that the multinationals of the game were carrying. Where before there were streets with shops now, mainly in some neighborhoods and districts of the big cities, which are casually the ones with the least income, we see gambling and betting locals, to which our young people and many older people access. Today this issue must be analysed from the perspective that we have been, and must be acknowledged, seven years in which there has been a lack of control. There was discontrol on the part of each and every one of the administrations, when Eurovegas was the greatest achievement that was intended to bring to our country and, in particular, to the Community of Madrid, when sport, which should and should always be health, became a business. Just as tobacco and alcohol disappeared from the sport, the game also has to disappear from the sport. [[Applause. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] That permissiveness for many years contributed to some of our streets being full of this kind of premises, to any young person being able to bet from a mobile phone, to the game having grown exponentially in recent years in a complex and inexorable way. The very data of the Age report that were given yesterday support that the online game continues to grow and, of course, also the face-to-face game. Today the playgrounds multiply like mushrooms in many neighborhoods and districts, in mine in particular, in Vicalvaro. I can see it, as I see it in Usera, in Vallecas or in some city of Murcia, Catalonia or any other place in the State, because this affects us all and all and in each and every one of the territories that make up the State. And, look, it's true that we've made progress, now there's a certain awareness on the part of everyone. I recognize that the People's Party has made some progress in its positions. We have moved from the Eurovegas model to one in which, with the amendment presented to us today, we are showing some progress in recognising that the other cannot be applied. They may also have contributed to some extent to their autonomous governments with Citizens and allowed them to take positions different from those they had taken so far, very exponentially in Madrid and Murcia. I always remember what a partner of mine of the party says, says that Murcia cannot become the Nevada of Spain, and I believe that neither the People's Party, Citizens nor any of us here want there to be any Nevada in Spain. We know that children and many people who suffer real social vulnerability are precisely those who are most looking for these multinationals, those who know more about the need, those who have the most desire to get out of this situation. We are therefore at a time when I firmly believe, and I say this on behalf of the Socialist Group, that we are all very aware that this situation cannot go on like this. It is true that the Spanish Government has taken decisions. The real decree recently adopted by the Government shows a clear decision as to its areas of competence, online gambling, and I believe that almost all of us share that it is an option that must be taken and that it is urgent to do so. That's why I think it's time to deal with other areas, not just the game, but also. I believe that a general consensus must be sought between all administrations and all political groups. We must set common minimum criteria that we can all apply, which at no time - I repeat, at no time - means an invasion or a touch of competence; no, each autonomous community will be able to fulfil and carry out its functions. But it is necessary that there is a common criterion for all, a common position regarding an acceptable function in each of the administrations - excuse the nerves of the first time, I imagine that many of you will have passed. [[Applauds]] The game is legal, it's true, but it can't be unpunished. We've already done it with tobacco and alcohol, and I think it's time to do it with the game. We often hear criticism from citizens about our inability to reach agreements in this House, but I would like to end with optimism. I believe that there is a message that citizens are asking of us, which is relative to the awareness of this problem, and I believe that we all have the conviction that we want to act against it. That is why I believe that today each and every group should come out together and set an example of consensus, that we all in one way or another agree to end this problem. We will be a better society if we do the right thing at the right time, and today can be the first day to put an end to a problem that we all feel and suffer very close. Thank you very much and I look forward to the support of each and every one of the parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vicente. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Giménez Giménez spoke first on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for Citizens the initiative we are debating today is of great importance, especially as regards the consequences for society of the gambling business. When we analyze the profile of the people affected by the game, we find many vulnerable groups: minors, people with low incomes, people living alone, people with previous disorders, with a tendency to compulsion. I think it is important to take into account the profile of the people who are affected by this possible - say - risk activity. As you will understand, the containment and reduction of leisure activities have only boosted bets over the Internet. In fact, although the government has already introduced gambling restrictions during the state of alarm, the volume of bets increased by almost 20% during the second quarter of this year compared to the same period of 2019. The data is demolishing, especially if we take into account that the sports competitions had been cancelled precisely because of the confinement. So, what is being proposed in this initiative is nothing less than balady. We need to find the right formula to bring freedom and moderation into line with the protection of these vulnerable people and specifically to prevent and prevent minors from accessing gambling houses and playrooms, measures which, without a doubt, go beyond limiting advertising and keeping them as far away as possible from schools and youth centres, because, ladies and gentlemen, we know that young people and minors are people at risk. Young people are starting to bet more and more quickly. Currently 40% of our country's new players start betting between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. The average age of people with gambling problems is 19 years and almost half of people who have suffered from a gambling problem have recognized that they have gambled before the age of majority. Ladies and gentlemen, Citizens are a liberal party. Only in freedom can decisions be made autonomously. We must ensure the protection of minors, keep them away from the interferences and messages concerned, so that we can build our own approach to the adult world and its activities. This is not to restrict the freedom of anyone, but to encourage free adults to make free decisions, taking into account training and access to information in a reliable and truthful manner. For our part, we have tabled some amendments, because we have also taken into account the proposal made to us by the Socialist Group. We believe that this is an unambitious proposal in terms of competences. Let us say that it is limited to saying what is the competence of the Government and, on the contrary, it focuses on the competence of the autonomous communities, for example, on the situation of opening licences, minimum distances, sanctions for non-compliant owners or limitations on the opening hours of establishments. Therefore, on a subject that is of social interest, with our battery of amendments we are betting on an improvement of this non-legislative proposal. What we want is for criteria to be harmonized. What we want is for there to be a more demanding ambition as to the responsibility and possibilities of administering this matter. We share the objectives of this proposal, and we are working on them in four autonomous communities in which we govern. That is why we believe that we must support such an initiative, but we must also accept the proposals made by our parliamentary group. Given the context itself in this House, I believe that in matters like this we must work together. Nor can we stop looking at the ministry itself, which was created to a large extent for Mr Garzón, almost without competence, but with a goal, which was to stop the proliferation of betting houses, especially to set limits so that there would be no betting houses in places close to juvenile centres. However, we believe that this is an outstanding task. This non-legislative proposal can lead us properly to find a solution, although our amendments should be taken into account and incorporated, because what they do is add demand and rigour to this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u97	Thank you, Madam President. It is very evident that gambling houses, gambling and online betting have experienced exponential growth in recent years, coinciding, and it is no coincidence, with the years of the economic crisis, until flooding popular neighborhoods and digital platforms. It is also true that this growth, favored by the Administration itself with absolutely permissive legislation, ends up turning ludopathy into a major social and public health problem. It is a problem that affects more directly the victims of the crisis, the youth and the socially disadvantaged, impoverished and excluded sectors. For this reason, the BNG bets not to regulate, but to ban gambling houses, gambling and online betting, because we cannot allow a few to get rich at the expense of the health, life and future of youth and popular classes. That is why we find it insufficient and unsatisfactory that the Socialist Group's proposal, in addition to bringing here once again a vague proposal, rather than acting from the government, because you are a government, as it is not, of course, that on this occasion of what it is about to put your finger in the eye to its partners in the United Nations Podemos and Alberto Garzón, that minister who spent a short time wanting to end the gambling houses to say that it is better to limit advertising than to ban it. In any case, we will vote in favour, because it seems to us that everything that is done in the direction of restricting is right, even if it is insufficient. Let us hope that this initiative will be adopted as a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group and to defend its amendment, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u99	Thank you, President. The Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to replace the non-legislative proposal that we are debating today. The first point in the original text presented by the Socialist Group is a clear invasion of Catalonia's competence in these matters. In the amendment tabled, we suggest that you proceed to a strict monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of Royal Decree 958/2020, recently adopted, on commercial communications of gambling activities. The Royal Decree incorporates limitations in the advertising of the game and bets in order to ensure that they do not take place in protected children's hours. In Catalonia - and I think also in the Basque Country - the public media TV3 and Catalunya Radio took an important step in this direction when they approved not to advertise online games and bets. This decision seeks a twofold objective: first, to protect minors, adolescents and young people, ultimately, one of the most vulnerable audiences to the risk of addiction, and, secondly, not to encourage gambling-related activities during the protected time. We are concerned about data, information about behaviors and the increase in pathological disorders generated by gambling addiction. If we refer to the first point and the invasion of competences, the Generalitat de Catalunya has powers such as granting the necessary authorizations to manage and operate the games and bets; supervising the registration and registration of persons, undertakings and entities holding the game and bets, as well as of establishments or premises where the activity is practiced; drawing up the plans of inspection in the field of gambling and bets; managing and controlling the administrative, inspection and technical bodies for the exercise of the powers and functions established by the existing rules in the field of gambling and bets; issuing technical reports in the field of gambling and bets; resolving the consultations made by the senior organs of the Generalitat Administration; directing the register of persons who are prohibited from entering the gambling establishments in Catalonia; resolving, where appropriate, the sanctioning dossiers and the resources. In the Democratic Party we stand against the re-centralizing state competence programmes and a common regulatory framework that aims to update and harmonize the activity of the game and its impact on public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u101	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are talking about gambling houses and, first of all, I think it is fair to acknowledge that we would not be talking about this here if it were not for the social, youth and neighborhood movements, and associations of rehabilitated ludopathy have been denouncing for years the uncontrolled proliferation of gambling houses in neighborhoods and villages, which have grown especially in the humblest areas and have been strategically located near those spaces that frequent the younger people, be they institutes, schools, parks, etc. This phenomenon is particularly affecting families, bringing them to ruin. Without going further, just two days ago there was a demonstration in Carabanchel against the gambling houses; tomorrow there will be another in the street Ocaña. All the people who are fighting on the street, thank you; thank you, because without the pressure on the street it is much harder for things to move in here and for proposals to come forward. If we talk about betting houses, it is important to remember that this uncontrolled proliferation that has taken place in the last ten years has to do with the fact that PP governments did not take courageous steps to avoid the situation in which we are now; on the contrary, they helped create the perfect broth of cultivation by precarizing life, precariousing work, so that betting houses would do their business. And this delay in regulation, the fact that the law of the jungle has prevailed, has created a health problem such as a cathedral and the gambling houses have been normalized as leisure centers, especially among young people, and more and more are the kids who have an addiction to gambling. Here are the recent data from yesterday's oven: the Age Survey estimates that 670,000 people - that is, more than half a million people - have risk behaviors or ludopathy. The magnitude of the problem is such that it reminds us of what heroin was in the 1980s. It is a fact that when it governs the People's Party, the interests of large companies rather than families are defended. It is very significant that a member of the government of Mariano Rajoy has ended up on the Board of Directors of Codere. If we also look at what they are doing in autonomous governments, there they are, with the support of the far right, giving all kinds of facilities with opening hours, with tax bonuses, etc. It is quite symptomatic that a group of young rebels in Madrid demand an extension of library schedules by going to study at a gambling house. The paper that the People's Party has had in the development of this industry explains very well the book by Luis and Daniel Díez: Play, play, damn, which basically explains how the People's Party is contaminated and financed by gambling houses; here is the plot Gürtel, where Luckia's lords, the González Fuentes brothers, appear as donors of their box B. Instead, there is the commitment of United We can with young people, and I humbly believe that it is quite obvious that we have had a very different role in fighting gambling houses and protecting families. In this Congress we have presented initiatives that have not always been taken into account in past legislatures, but now that we are in the Government we are making progress. Sooner and later we will find it as strange to see ads of betting houses on soccer shirts than to see tobacco advertising, because it will be equally forbidden and we will have made it not have social legitimacy. Finally, I announce that we will vote in favour, and I would like to address the young people of our country. Betting isn't a game, betting isn't leisure, it's a business, and every time you throw a coin in the roulette there's a billionaire capitalist pig laughing on your face because you think you're gonna be like him, but, let's face it, banking always wins. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vicente Viondi, I must comment on my speech announcing that from the VOX Parliamentary Group we share the concern about the problems that sometimes arise from gambling addiction. The centre of VOX's political action is the person and the family. The game generates addictions with devastating consequences for family stability and personal relationships. We have tabled an amendment to amend the minimum standards which - we understand - must be included in Act No. 13/2011 on the regulation of the game, so that they can be required throughout the national territory. The Act sought to accommodate new electronic communications services and interactive games over the Internet with a technical-administrative nature, but suffers from a protective regime for users of such betting and gambling services. In our amendment we specify the protection of particularly vulnerable subjects, minors and those who have been self-excluded from the activity of the game; the worsening of the sanctions for those who allow access to these especially vulnerable subjects; the unification of the General Register of bans on access to the game, currently opaque between autonomous communities - for those who live in the extra-penisular territories may be sufficient, but in the Peninsula it is much easier to change from autonomous community - except Castilla-La Mancha, which would be the only autonomous community that shares its information with the register of the General Management of the Game, according to the general direction itself; the removal of the betting houses from schools, residences of elders, hospitals, sports venues, rehabilitation centres, youth centres and universities, as well as between betting houses to avoid the formation of neighbourhoods or ghettos of the game. Our desire is not to criminalize gambling houses, but to establish clear limits that protect society from the serious consequences that we have found ludopathy causes. Protecting the family and the person is, first of all, by protecting minors from falling into these kinds of addictions that can last their entire lives and destroy their families. Therefore, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we want to remove the betting houses from the minors as much as possible. [[Applauds]] The problem game is doing special damage between neighborhoods and families with lower incomes. Gambling houses are used by the most vulnerable, who pretend to believe that they can be made rich by betting at the expense of culture, merit, work and effort. The betting premises have multiplied, especially in neighborhoods with lower rents, and I will give you a very concrete data: in Madrid, the three neighborhoods where the most have grown the betting houses coincide exactly with the three districts with lower rents, Latina, Userra and Puente de Vallecas. At VOX we are against turning neighborhoods into hidden casinos. Addiction to gambling is breaking relationships and leading to personal, economic and violent conflicts within families and neighbourhoods. VOX is always on the side of unity against those who separate communities for economic interest. We are in favour of freedom of enterprise, but for that freedom to prevail, clear limits must be laid down. In this sense we believe that it must be oriented to the common good, and there is no, there is no, there can be no common good where our children are at risk. [[Applauds]] As you will see, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we share with you the same concern about the social impact of the game on the most vulnerable. That is why you should accept our amendment, which complements the proposal that we are now discussing. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs. Castillo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u105	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by making clear the position of the People's Party. Mr Viondi, we have always worked intensively on education, prevention and protection of vulnerable adolescents and groups, as well as on regulatory criteria and specialized health care to address addictions in general and ludopathy in particular, and we will continue to do so. We have demonstrated this over the years that we have governed: EUR 2 billion support it, as well as the National Addiction Strategy 2017-2024 or the Action Plan on Addictions 2018-2020. And we will continue to do so because it is an issue that requires our consensus and that we all row in the same direction, but we have to do it in a serious and integral way. Madam representative of Podemos, we would have liked you to be concerned with the same force as the minors who were protected by the Balearic Government, protecting them and allowing the commission of inquiry. [[applause]] [[The lady]] , which you didn't do, and you come here to mix barbecues with merinas, to talk to us about things that have nothing to do with the subject we're dealing with. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party brings us two equal GNPs this week, but not only that, it brings us the same GNP to debate it in plenary and in the Commission, and its partners, Mr de Podemos, bring us a GNP presented eight months after it basically deals with the same thing and which will also be debated this week. Gentlemen, this is surreal. The Socialists are trying to get the Communists to work, and the Communists on Thursday are going to urge the Socialists, in turn, to work. We don't understand anything. [[Applauds]] In what sense do you do it? The diagnosis for us is quite clear, Mr. Viondi. Socialists, you want to amend the plan of a communist minister, Mr Garzón, who should never have been a minister, a destroyer he has to talk about and who always has to talk about, even if it is to get in the way and put the whole tourist sector in our country in arms. They put him in charge of a ship with no destination, a ministry with few contents, in which they took the game and its regulation as a flag but to which Paul Iglesias himself has left at the feet of the horses having to go out in his defense to avoid their dismissal. If you intend to give the final stock to Mr Garzón, do so soon, because your destroyer minister will be able to put an end to all the good things that the PP left in motion. He has already done so with the decree regulating advertising in the game. It has taken two years to approve it and it has approved a worse version of a well-focused a priori work. His minister will destroy another sector and will not focus his work on what he really should: the fight against ludopathy, the control of illegal gambling, the implementation of plans aimed at education, prevention and the protection of hotspots of risk, where most of the danger lies to vulnerable adolescents and groups. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to make noise, introduce a smokescreen to disorient society and do not talk about that law that has been passed in this house and that violates the constitutional principles, the Celaá Law or the general budgets of shame, budgets that will go ahead with the enemies of democracy. [[applause]] Socialists, your explanatory statement is really horrific. You say textually: 'The main studies reveal that the increase in gambling disorder is associated with the increase in legalized gambling'. Are you defending the illegal game, ladies and gentlemen? The legal game gives protection to society, quite the contrary to what you are trying to insinuate in this explanatory statement. We have already been told that the report which was published a couple of days ago has been read. It is clear from that report that there has been an increase in the number of people playing, but it seems that there has been a decrease in the number of people playing with inappropriate behaviour. The People's Party wants to work for those 7500 people diagnosed and those 770 000 who are at risk. We have tabled an amendment which aims at a comprehensive plan for the fight against ludopathy in the private, public, face-to-face or online, in any of the modalities, but agreed, with a technical-scientific diagnosis and with an economic memory, giving it to you economically, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that we will all do the same and that you will take our contributions into account. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Castillo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Viondi, I hope you will not be offended by this, which I am going to say now, but I would say that your initiative is a good initiative, but it is not very effective. I think it is ten years late, the measures they raise are not bad, but they have little to do with some realities that we are already living or little will serve to alleviate the tremendous drama that is already taking place in some places. There is one element that is even more surprising to us, and that is that this debate has not been conveyed through the action of the Government. I already know that in this case the ministry does not belong to any member of the Socialist Party, but I do know that you are the largest formation within that government and it would be logical that the government would have acted with much more speed and urgency - and that every stick would hold its sail - to put a stop to this madness of gambling houses and to everything they are doing in the working class neighborhoods. And that is so - you said it and I recognize it - but what I don't understand is that if you say that fascism stops with the BOE, let's not think that the lobby of the patron of gambling houses can also stop with the BOE and don't do things beyond bringing this debate here. You have pointed out a number of data on your own initiative and I think it is correct because they fit the debate that we are holding. I implement them with some more than we feel especially proud and proud: the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre are the first and second in spending on gambling and betting. Unfortunately, we lead that ranking and, as I say, it is not something that pleases us. But I do not know whether these initiatives that are being put forward today serve a great deal when they are not talking about what is really urgent, at least in a reality like the one I describe to you, that of the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre, where to talk about regulating rather than banning, where to talk about regulating rather than reducing it does not solve too much. Because you put the need in the initiative to regulate, for example, the distance between educational establishments and bookmakers. By way of example, in Bilbao we have thirty-two educational centres less than a hundred metres from betting houses. What regulation will be made? What do you do with those gambling houses? If they regulate that they are four hundred or five hundred meters away, which can be a reasonable measure depending on what they are claiming different associations, what we do with those that are already one hundred meters away, because I suppose the institute will not move it from place. Are we going to dare to close those betting houses or are we going to have to do legal engineering to say that, as they were already in the past, these ones do not affect them, but that from now on they do? Another element he raises is that of regulating the new licensing of bookmakers. But if we and we - and the employers' sector, not us and ourselves - believe that we are already saturated, that at least in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Navarre there are no more betting houses. What need do we need to regulate new ones if what we want is for many of them to disappear? They also talk about the control of young people's access to gambling houses and how to control it better, and that's fine, but they talk about drunkenness as one of the elements at the same time that they point out in the text that one of the factors of attachment to young people in gambling houses is precisely to offer them very cheap drink, when not free, because they may arrive serene but they end up totally drunk in the betting house, and little remedy will be found to that. In short, the limitations that this Government is exhibiting on this issue - as with other issues, and I do not blame it on you, do not take it this way because it is not my intention - have to do with the power that the sector itself has and the capacity of influence and pressure it has on this Government, which is much greater than we would like and much greater than that which would like those who defend the work that many young people organized in the working-class neighborhoods are carrying out to deal with gambling houses. Because it is good to applaud them, but it would be much better to do a much more effective institutional action than to coincide with what they are proposing, because if not their struggle will not cease to be that of the demand, but not that of the achievement of objectives. It should also be noted that more could be done, advertising could be banned, projects co-participated by betting entities could not be financed, alternative and additional taxation could be generated to which they already have for betting houses and all such plans could be devoted to awareness-raising or other elements. I end with two questions. It is also true that there are exceptions, fortunately not everything is bad. For example, in the world of football, which is topped by gambling houses, right now there are two clubs, the Royal Society and Unionists of Salamanca, who have decided that they do not want to have betting advertising. I wish you'd set an example and do more! But the media remain bent on that reality. I'll finish with a question. The lobby of gambling in institutions, unfortunately, plays at home, and at home banking always wins. I end with statements from a youth organization of precarious young people called Eragin, which says so very clearly. May they pay attention to what they say, which is: We are precarious day after day. Those who condemn young people to labour exploitation, to centrifugal and tertiaryized cities or to the impossibility of decent housing are the same who have shown unacceptable passivity to gambling houses. It is good enough to look away and continue to consider a healthy fun which is nothing but a trap, a disgusting way of doing business at the expense of condemning young people...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u108	Thank you, Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u109	...to ludopathy. Apustu etxeak campera. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u110	Thank you, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u111	Thank you, Madam President. The premature start of gambling in gambling houses, games with money no doubt derive in a youthful ludopathy, that if in itself it is already serious, add to it the youth even further aggravates it. There is no doubt that this is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. From my group we are not going to question the problem, it has been explained by all the groups that have preceded me. On the contrary, we are so aware of this that in Euskadi we have developed specific policies, plans and laws to try to curb and mitigate this situation. Having said that - and I am not going to go in so much, because I am going to mess up some people's intervention a little bit - I am going to focus on an issue that no one has added. I don't know who wrote this non-legislative proposal, but either you don't know the uniqueness and competence of Euskadi or you don't care. And the second one seems more serious. We will not discuss the content, as I said - others have also talked about it - but we will delve into how they intend to do so to show them that their initiative is, all of it, an invasion by itself. It is unstatutory from beginning to end and I will go into detail one by one its points and its corresponding competence attributed to it. You speak in the preamble of the great ideas that you want to combat, but then, in the measures, in the proposed part, they are all measures that it is not up to you to legislate either this house or the central government. I'll tell you what. Euskadi has exclusive competence in the field of casinos, games and betting, as stated in Article 10.35 of the Statute of Gernika, Law 4/1991, regulating the game of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which states that all activities relating to gambling and betting and in all its modalities and denominations, including those carried out through electronic, computer or telematic means, must be regulated in the Basque sphere. Under the provisions - it also comes out in several decrees, for example, the General Gambling Regulation in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi - such planning covers specific issues such as the establishment of the maximum number of authorisations, machines, game elements or gaming systems, authorized premises, distances between premises and maximum spaces. Questions all of them raised by you. Decree 120 also provides for the prohibition of access to playrooms for minors, legally disabled persons, persons included in the prohibited relationship or persons presenting signs of drunkenness, as you have said. The Basque Government also has the competence to establish the minimum distance between gambling venues and betting houses, as stated in article 9 of Decree 120/2016. But there are also more decrees: jurisdiction over sanctions also rests with the Basque Government. The Basque Game Act contains in its article 7 that it is the Department of Interior of the Basque Government that is competent to approve the specific regulations of the games contained in the catalogue of games authorized in the Basque Autonomous Community. And if that were not enough, the Basque Parliament passed the Basque Addictions Act, which in its article 50 'in order to prevent the emergence of problematic gambling situations or pathological gambling' includes measures to 'encourage corporate social responsibility in the game sector so that the set of business practices are open and transparent'. That is to say, a whole legislative package - it has more, but I no longer have time - that really leaves behind everything you propose, because in Euskadi all that is done by the Basque authorities, which are the competent ones. I am therefore surprised that the previous speaker, who is so aware of the reality of the Basque Country, has not made any mention of the competition field and even asked the Government to do more, when the Basque Government is responsible for this matter. Doing it right, wrong or regular, but the Basque government. At that point, it seems to us very serious that initiatives should continue to be presented in this way, Socialists, moving Olympicly from the furo, the egg and even the hen. Heard the explanation, it is even more obvious that they understand or accept the structure of the State from a purely vertical perspective, with the State represented by his Government and then the peoples, nations and other autonomous communities. Well, look, Euskadi is no delegation from anyone but the government. And the worst thing is that initiatives like this...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u112	Mr. Agirretxea, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u113	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. ... initiatives like this then become law and end up being the competent state where it wasn't, because there is the TC wildcard that always attends to the call. And so, how long?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u114	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u115	We will not support this proposal for the reasons set out above. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u116	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u117	The neoliberal policies of all the governments that have passed through the Spanish state have led to the youth of today to unemployment of 40%, to emancipation of only 17% and to economic instability which, of course, causes emotional instability. In view of this precarious situation, young people should organize collectively to defend the workers. However, ferocious capitalism is causing our problems to be individualized, many to stop finding meaning in the collective struggle, this great working and precarious crowd to fade away and some, more and more, to seek refuge in individual and unstable solutions. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we have a challenge, the challenge of giving real and effective solutions to the lack of opportunities and preventing the continued growth of the number of people who gamble and play, at first, perhaps for fun and, at second, for necessity. In just five years the average number of online players in the Spanish state has tripled. While here some companies and some politicians have been enriched - and are enriched - with the dirty gambling market and bets, working youth becomes addicted to a game that ends up becoming ruin and depression. While the figures raise to 47 billion a year - 0.9% of GDP - the total amount of money that moves the gambling sector, 4.6% of adolescents present gambling addiction behaviors. Ludopathy is a clear consequence of this savage capitalism that condemns us to compete and that sells us the bike that our life opportunities are our responsibility, when they really depend on the great economic and political powers subordinate to them. We have the challenge to stop patching up the consequences of gambling and betting business and start a progressive abolition of this business. Today, with this GNP presented to us by the Socialist Group, we are faced with a competitive problem which we cannot avoid either. I have commented on this on several occasions in this legislature in various committees and it seems that some have not just been made clear what the powers are in the field of gambling. As I never tire of repeating it - and I will not tire of it - I remind you of Article 141 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which makes it very clear that from Catalonia we must regulate the game and the face bets. In fact, these proposals that you bring us are already regulating them from the Generalitat of Catalonia. The Spanish state government must, for now, regulate gambling and online betting, and that is what we should focus on. In fact, if we focus on the online game, we see that it has a more addictive potential than the face-to-face one. Health professionals have been warning us for a long time that this new addiction is gaining ground and not only among the youngest, but even among minors. It is no longer just about betting from the computer, but we can also bet from the mobile. Last month, the Royal Decree on Commercial Communications of Game Activities was passed, which we recognize was a step forward. However, we have not had the space to discuss it in the Congress of Deputies and there are issues that concern us. There should be no publicity, not from one to five in the morning, because in those hours it is precisely when young people are connected to the Internet. It should enter into force immediately and not wait for the completion of the advertising contracts signed before the publication of the standard. If so, until the League and the Champions are finished, we will continue to add cases of ludopathy, in a context, above, of reduced mobility. And the gambling tax must be increased to online bets; we made an amendment on this in the State General Budgets and it was not approved, and it is shameful that some today defend the end of ludopathy but then do not accept amendments like this. If you don't go beyond communications, we won't solve the problem from the root. If they are prepared to combat ludopathy head-on and do so from a competitive respect, they will find us, but if, on the contrary, they continue to bet on a...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u118	Mrs. Rosique, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u119	...we're not going to approve them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u120	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Viondi, do you accept any of the amendments tabled by your group?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u121	We accept what the Socialist Group and the Confederal Group of the United Nations Group of the European People's Party have tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u122	All right. The non-legislative proposal shall be voted on in the terms of the two amendments incorporated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u123	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government intends to take to guarantee the right to work-family reconciliation, especially in the face of the exceptional difficulties caused by the health emergency of COVID-19. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, are you going to defend the motion? [[Consent]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u124	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with today is a debate on conciliation, a matter of vital importance to millions of families in Spain and a problem, ladies and gentlemen, which is not new, because conciliation has been a pending issue in our country for many years now. And to this is added the situation of deep crisis that we have been experiencing right now, which has also affected the most vulnerable families, who are mostly in difficulty in employment, jobs that hardly allow them to perform telework or work remotely, significantly limiting their ability to reconcile. Therefore, when some family member is affected by a preventive quarantine or by contracting the virus, the alternatives of families with jobs where these options have not been possible are very limited. Telework has not been a solution for Spanish families, ladies and gentlemen, for one part yes but for another part no, and it is that many of them, in view of the need to care for some member of their family, have to choose to stay at home. In the end, there have been people who have had to do what they have had to do is ask for reductions in time in order to be able to cope with their care and, of course, not all families can afford this drop in income. Not to mention the self-employed, who as a collective have encountered great difficulties in working remotely. These inequalities have lasted beyond the months of confinement and the impact of the second wave or the potential third wave has been noted again among families. [[The Lord]] The health situation in our country is far from normal before the COVID, and it is the most vulnerable and self-governing families that continue to suffer from the lack of conciliation alternatives proposed by the Government. The first measure promoted by the Government, teleworking, as I have told you, is insufficient. The second measure regulated by the Plan Me Cuida, which provided for the right of conciliation for the care of family members by the pandemic, was also not sufficient because it does not address that need of those families who have to stay with children at home in preventive quarantine without having to reduce their monthly income. Clearly, it has had a good role, but it has largely left very vulnerable families out. These measures have recently been complemented by the adoption of Royal Decree 28/2020 of 22 September on Distance Work. As I was telling you, these are measures that, in addition, we have supported by Citizens, but they are insufficient, they have not been an alternative for those families who cannot work from their homes or cannot give up a significant part of their wages due to the reduction in working hours. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, from Citizens we have asked on many occasions for answers to these realities. We cannot bear the burden of this crisis on the shoulders of the same workers, those who have face-to-face jobs, those who suffer from job instability or those who have low paid jobs. Moreover, it is very clear that this type of situation is far more harmful to women. Women workers, most of whom choose these options or even their exclusion, are excluded from the labour market because of their worst working conditions from the first point of departure. The need to move forward in conciliation was made much more urgent in addition to the start of the school year. It was very clear how we faced a big problem that we talked about and continued to talk about by the families: What I do with the children at home; I have to take care of the children because I have them in preventive quarantine; I do not have a positive PCR, what I do and what solution the Government is offering me right now. So far none. Therefore, this has been one of the main objectives of our motion. You yourselves, in addition, members of the Government, recognized that there was a problem when up to two times the intention was to introduce a benefit-free leave for families with children who should stay at home, even if they did not have a positive RCP, but we do not understand why they abandoned this idea and we do not understand why they left so many families when they needed it most. In Citizens, as we have been proposing for months, we want a parental work permit for all working mothers and fathers, both self-employed and salaried, who have to care for their dependent children or minors when they have to keep this quarantine. That is a prospect of conciliation to be resolved, an imminent problem, but we also want a perspective of work in conciliation and co-responsibility from an integral point of view. We would also like to see a position of consensus and dialogue with parliamentary groups, with social actors, with civil society, and to deal with such important issues as streamlining timetables, co-responsibility of tasks and the provision of public services to improve reconciliation and the promotion of education from 0 to 3 years, among others. So, ladies and gentlemen, what are we asking for? On the one hand, resolve this situation and have this benefit for parents who have to take care of their children because they have to keep a preventive quarantine and that we shield reconciliation policies with a state pact. Again, I believe that we are facing - and we are proposing it in this House - something in which we should be involved all of us, ladies and gentlemen, because, in the end, what we are proposing is a good state pact that demonstrates to the families that we care about them, that their problems are ours and that we are here to listen to them and walk together. Therefore, to what Citizens invites, and in addition we have received different types of transactions and want to report that we are working on it, is to try to join efforts to come to include improvements that make this perspective of conciliation and co-responsibility more efficient and more realistic. What we want is to get to work in this direction, ladies and gentlemen. I invite you to do so and assure you that it is worth it because millions of families in our country will thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u125	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Plural Parliamentary Group is speaking, which in this turn also sets out a position, first of all, Mrs Sabanes Nadal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. In the middle of the 21st century, with great technological advances, our country, however, continues to have a recurring problem with conciliation, that is, with something as simple as making work and life compatible. Before the pandemic, families were already juggling to work, care, reconcile and enjoy some free time; from the pandemic, with anxiety and endless hours of teleworking, there has been nothing more than a reflection of what was already going on in the lives of the Spanish and Spanish, fundamentally, of the Spanish, who are the most responsible for the care. During the first compasses of the state of alarm and during the descalation More Country-EQUO proposed several initiatives such as those that today arise in this proposition, the fundamental thing, that the needs of the care were covered without losing part of the wages. In the same vein, we made a proposal to grant a paid leave to care for and accompany minors who had to keep quarantine even if they were not sick. And, of course, we proposed a study of the four-day working week or the thirty-two-hour day. In this respect, we have included an amendment, because we believe that reducing working hours is a fundamental part of the new working models of the future. It is good for people's lives and health, but it is also good for productivity and for retaining talent, for saving expenditure, for saving energy, for reducing forced displacements and, therefore, for reducing pollution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely urgent to address the rationalization of timetables in our country. The reduction of working time has been used...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u128	I'm done. ... during crises as a way to share work. Today everyone expects, after the crisis, a better future...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u129	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u130	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Citizens Group proposes this initiative and we will support it because it addresses one of the issues - which some will remember, and if I do not invite you to read the journals of previous sessions - that we have been demanding since the first day that the health crisis of COVID began and during the states of alarm. It is a matter of allowing parents whose children had to be isolated from school by a contagion in their classroom to have access to some form of unemployment, some type of benefit or some type of optimal solution for both workers and businesses. The COVID crisis began in March. We have gone through several states of alarm, we have gone through several royal decrees and in none of them - it is still in the tinter - a provision of this kind is regulated, like the one that raised them, and it is more necessary than ever. This, of course, can also be combined with family and work conciliation and with questions raised in the motion concerning hourly reform or the improvement of working hours. Therefore, they are measures that we all often repeat in speeches and acts, but it is time for them to become letters, black and white, on the pages of the BOE. It is not fair that since March it is pending to regulate a situation in which many parents who have seen themselves with this episode of their child included in a bubble group in the school where they had to be isolated. It is not fair that there is this situation still to be regulated and to which no sort of exit has been given. And it is not fair that this has been taking place since March, we are at the end of the year and have not yet faced it. The need for such measures, especially these extraordinary measures in times of pandemic, teleworking and confinement, but also many measures relating to family and work reconciliation, to the improvement of the uses of time and, ultimately, to hourly reform, are issues that this House would have to begin to address as a matter of urgency, as much as or more urgent than any of the real decrees that have fallen throughout these states of alarm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u131	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u132	Good afternoon. I want first of all to take advantage of this space of privilege which is the forum to condemn the macho and lesbian aggression suffered by journalist Irantzu Varela at the hands of her neighbour. [[Applauds]] I want to condemn this aggression, these punches and insults, because I want to condemn here all the aggressions that lesbians have suffered in this country. I want to condemn all the aggressions suffered by the LGBTI community and I want to condemn the aggressions suffered by women who make use of public space to expose their ideas. We're not so good, writes Rubén Serrano and it's true. It is not the LGTBI community, nor is it a society that allows this to happen. I'm going to the motion that brings us Citizens. Of course, we want our jobs to be compatible with family life and with life itself and they are not. This is not because of a divine curse of snakes, apples or the sweat of the forehead. This is called labor reform and also patriarchy and capitalism. This has terrible consequences for our personal development and for our health; especially for women, the most vulnerable, who are the ones who bear the responsibility and all the consequences of care work. At United We can like families, we like all families, and that is why we are concerned to guarantee the conditions for all to be on equal rights. I have said this on several occasions in this rostrum: co-responsibility, what a beautiful name you have. It's co-responsibility for what we need to talk about. We must talk about the State, institutions and public administrations assuming the right of all people to be cared for. We are all going to need it at some point, ladies and gentlemen, and it cannot be that it depends on the back, the rain, the health or the endurance of the women in our environment or those who in a more vulnerable situation are willing to do so without worthy rights or job recognition. A pact for conciliation, a pact for care, a pact for understanding and guaranteeing that right. That's about budgets. That, voting against a 46 % increase in the budget in policies of aid to dependency, hardly, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, hardly. A pact then for responsible policies. This Government has begun this work through a system of the whole State of care. They are seed politics yes, seed politics because they sow; because there is no shortsightedness for what are structural changes; because what we do today has to endure and serve the citizenry, so that those who are now in institutions return to our professions and tasks and continue. Ignoring this, that scope, is propaganda, ladies and gentlemen. Let us make it clear that the substance of this motion suits us well. Who isn't? We are introducing pedagogical amendments to explain that much of what is being asked is already being done and that some things, as they appear on paper, are a toast to the sun. And, I'm sorry, but at this moment, less than ever, making toast to the sun, with the time and conditions in which we can be and take care of our loved ones, it's not honest, I'm sorry. A couple of notes. When we talk about education from 0 to 3 we do it thinking about learning, sociability, educational project and, most importantly, we do it thinking about public school, universal and free. And another point, no less: rationalizing schedules is a demand of a long time, the matter is on the path that is chosen. Companing working and school hours can be to shorten working time or to extend school time. The Citizens' Group, in the XII Legislature, has already brought to this House an initiative that had found the formula: that our little ones be more time in schools and we are more time in the workplace. Well, you'll see, not like that. Our group does not think that that is defending the rights of families. At the United We may have been working in the opposite direction for years, in the reduction of working hours, for justice, for law and for efficiency, without adamism. This has been said for a long time by trade unions and social partners in general, and I am aware that this is very clear to the Government and that Minister Yolanda Díaz defends co-responsibility time and the rights of workers. And to those who say that this is inviable we answer them with rights conquered, we answer them with the eight-hour day, we answer them with a historical rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, because every wall that rises before a new advance in rights - and I finish - is identical to other walls that fell down achieving a better society. There were ways other times... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u133	Your time is up, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Trias Gil has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. This debate is not part of a parliamentary question, but is the very subject of the society we want. This was said the other day by the Minister of Labour. The society we want and defend from our parliamentary group, representing many, is a society in which men and women, by virtue of their own nature, do not renounce their masculinity or their femininity and do not automatically assume the new roles that from their sectarian ideologies want to impose on us. [[Applauds]] We want women and men to be able to choose freely to work, to care for their children and dependent relatives, and to always be recognized with specific resources. We want men and women free and mature, able to organize their lives, their homes and their jobs, without Dad State telling them how to do it or forcing them to rate, calculate, measure the percentage of time we generously dedicate to our families. Generosity, gratuity and surrender are signs of nuclear identity of what a family is; we will not be allowed to steal it from us. Both at work and in the family, human beings can do the best of themselves. The measure of dedication and dedication that we place in both realities speaks of how we are and who we are as people. Work and the family are two intimately united, good and necessary realities that contribute to the development of the personal and collective good and where principles and values such as dignity, sacrifice, illusion and motivation are deployed and, above all, where hope is born. The first step called for in this motion reveals, once again, that giving a response to the social urgency that we live in to the Government does not matter; a quick government to legislate death, but slow, incapable and reluctant to meet the urgent needs of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] In the text of the motion Citizens raises the high percentage of women who ask for daytime adjustments, surpluses and reduced days as bad news. From our point of view, and although they may be insufficient, it is positive, as it means that we move forward and that women work while they dedicate themselves to their families without giving up what they are. I should like to make a brief mention of the gratuitousness of children's schooling, which undoubtedly facilitates work reconciliation, favours the birth and return of women to work after giving birth, in addition to the educational project it entails. The problem is that this gratuity, as your lordships of Citizens well know, the Government raises it exclusively by strengthening the public sphere, by closing down the centres that have been operating for years and once again by reducing the freedom of parents to choose and professionals to offer. [[Applauds]] We have called for the deletion and modification of the paragraphs dealing with co-responsibility, a new talisman word of progress consensus, a collage of gender ideology in family and labour relations, through which the Government wants to get into our homes and tell us whether it is up to us to pick up the children, care for our mother, sweep, cook, take a walk or even rest; a concept that hides pathetic victimism and that does not empower any woman to take responsibility for her own life. We defend a model of a free woman, who owns her life and her decisions; a woman who does not need to compare herself to the man to assert her identity; a woman who knows that being a woman is simply wonderful, as it is to be a man. [[applause]] We believe that the State should not regulate the sharing of family responsibilities. Society must mature in order to enable men and women, in the exercise of their freedom, to share family responsibilities autonomously and without interference from the State. We are confident that they will accept our amendments in order to be able to vote in favour of this motion, although in the light of the corresponding amendments to the consensus, progress will not be easy. We agree that family reconciliation measures are insufficient, but they must always be carried out by protecting and protecting motherhood and encouraging birth. [[Applauds]] That the family clearly...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u135	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u136	Two seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u137	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u138	That the family is clearly not a priority for this government... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u139	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are debating family and work conciliation, certainly a very important issue on the political agenda, but our country, Spain, has a previous problem and much more urgent than employment. We cannot talk about family and work conciliation without talking about employment, and today's data are devastating. Spain is the country of Europe that destroys the most jobs. This is not the fault of the pandemic or of the COVID; that we have four million unemployed is the fault of the disastrous management of this social-communist government. [[Applauds]] Sánchez had been in government for twenty months when the pandemic surprised us and only in January 244,000 jobs were destroyed. Do accounts, ladies; of those dusts, these muds. In addition: 700,000 workers in ERTE who are unemployed, if this Government does not remedy it - and is not on the way to doing so - 1 200 000 families with all its unemployed members; 86 000 closed companies. But who can talk about employment and conciliation if they are not going to be entrepreneurs in this country? And, besides, a million autonomouss on the loose rope - yes, ladies and gentlemen, on the loose rope - and without protection of the MeCare Plan, because they have not been included in this protection plan. The self-employed do not reconcile, do they not have a right? We are going to put an end to the low level of employment left in this country. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen, 342,000 more women in unemployment - that is in the last year - which leads to 57.7% of unemployment in this country being female. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk about conciliation, yes, but before employment and also about real and effective equality policies. We know very well in the People's Parliamentary Group - that is why I am addressing the ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, who hold the portfolios of the Ministries of Equality and Labour - that with the Equal Opportunities Plan of the People's Party we allocated 70% of its budget, of €3.5 billion, to employment policies and conciliation policies. Only in this way could we obtain record figures of female employment; you cannot say the same thing behind a banner and sharing purple ties. I refer to the evidence; we reached the figure of 8,700,000 women with a social security profile, a record figure; one in four women's jobs in the euro area was created in Spain; six out of ten entrepreneurs in Spain were women, and we were also able to narrow the wage gap by 13%, a figure that is relevant in our history and above the United Kingdom. That is done with the governments of the People's Party. And yes, with job creation too, the best social policy was accompanied by conciliation measures. The first regulation of family and work conciliation was in 1999, with President Aznar; the first regulation of telework is also in the labour reform of the People's Party, still in force today, which only you have regulated because of the urgent need for the pandemic and the success of the processing of this royal decree-law is far from being achieved. And so it goes on and on, because we increase the possibility of reducing working hours from eight to six years, we increase the pensions of working mothers by up to 15% and we increase the social security contribution to the self-employed by 100% up to twelve months for the care of their dependent relatives. This was accompanied by an ambitious plan of flexibility and rationalization of schedules based precisely on productivity, as we proposed in the amendment to the Petitum of the Citizens' motion, and not as he wants to do More Country with his amendment by reducing the day to thirty hours to cut the work. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, do not have much hope because we have already seen it. With Podemos you have everything lost, they have their road map; a country of subsidized; here you do not want wage earners to exist. While the Minister of Labour prides herself on the validity of allocating more benefits from the ministry, it is difficult to achieve a policy of job creation and much less reconciliation. And besides, with the PSOE you continue - forgive me, lords of Citizens - to be ridiculous. They have been invisible to the Socialist Party in the processing of general budgets and have learned nothing from the few agreements they have reached with the Socialist Party - unfortunately, many on my land - because the agreements with the municipalities of Albacete, Guadalajara and Ciudad Real have not improved the lives of citizens. So, take a good look in the mirror at how the lives of the Spaniards improve in Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia when they look at the policies of the People's Party and assume our amendment, which, of course - most importantly - proposes to extend the MeCare Plan for all the autonomous. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u141	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ros Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic has revealed many shortcomings and a reality that we have always demanded in the Socialist Party: the care of people, the use of time and the way of working and living are a shared responsibility of companies, institutions and also of women and men. Mrs Giménez, your proposals move once again in the area of conciliation and, in the 21st century, we must talk about co-responsibility, because conciliation, women already reconcile; they reconcile at the expense of their professional careers, their leisure and their health, at the expense of inequality, something that we in the Socialist Party hate. We prefer to talk about co-responsibility because men and women are responsible and co-responsibility has to be the State with citizenship. Everyone should have time for their family, professional and personal lives, not just those dedicated to care. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, what you are asking for in this motion is already being done and will continue to be done by the government because it is reflected in the general state budgets for 2021, and you have voted no. [[Applauds]] The amendment amending the Socialist Party aims, with the best intention, to improve its proposal in order to be realistic and to continue to drive the policies that are already under way. To say and do, to move from words to facts, because I remind you of what the minister replied to her request to approve a parental work permit: that the directive we are going to transpose already requires a partial permit. Facts such as the MeCaida plan, hence our amendment to continue to apply it because it obliges companies to adapt the organization of work to the needs of people. Facts, because the proposals you are asking for a state pact for conciliation - which we propose to you as a pact for care - are included in the 2021 budgets, and you have voted no. They have voted no to budgets which, for the first time, envisage a co-responsibility plan of EUR 200 million to build a state care system. They have voted that no to budgets that increase the social services budget by 70% to strengthen a public care system. They have voted no to the law that universalizes education from zero to three years, as these budgets will invest 200 million euros in classrooms of these ages. They have voted no to budgets that give legal status to pay equality regulations and equality plans. They have voted that not to budgets that exactly equalize paternity and maternity leave to sixteen weeks, equal and non-transferable leave. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Socialist Party in 2020, we must speak and act with joint responsibility because that is economy, productivity and prosperity, and this is the challenge and effort that we Socialists and Socialists are working on, the most obvious example is the 2021 budgets. Simon de Beauvoir wrote: The crisis cannot be paid by women. And this government does not stand in the way of words and passes on to the facts. Acts, and so on Wednesday, 9 December, the Council of Ministers approved the III Plan for Gender Equality in the General Administration of the State, with 68 actions that include a multitude of measures for co-responsibility; acts such as the commitment of this Government to a social and political pact for the rationalization of schedules, which will include a law on the use of time and rationalization of schedules, guaranteeing the rights to adapt the working day until the children are twelve years old; acts such as the commitment decided by quality public services that restore labour rights, contrary to what the People's Party did when it ruled, which was to dismantle the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not a collective, we are more than half the population. We want to be equal, equal in all areas in order to achieve full democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, white and bottled, if you want to tie your shoulder in the interests of co-responsibility and equality, vote on the Socialist Group's amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u143	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u144	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. The substantive question of measures to guarantee the right to conciliation and equal treatment is perhaps one of the most exciting we can address those who face the field of social law and not just that of labour law. The real challenge, the real concern to which we must focus our attention is to talk about care policies and to place care policies as one of the axes of intervention by the public authorities, precisely in order to give effect to the right to welfare policies referred to in Article 50 of the Constitution, precisely by the administrations closest to the citizens and therefore to their social and welfare needs. That is why this debate has to be contextualised in many ways. The measures, seen from the perspective of citizens' right to a care policy, refer to the reconciliation of the family and professional life of parents in those terms defined in Directive 2019/1158, which establishes minimum requirements related to paternity leave, parental leave and leave for caregivers with flexible work formulas for workers who are parents or caregivers, thus facilitating such reconciliation of work and family life. This is intended to contribute to achieving the objectives of reconciliation, on the one hand, and equality between men and women, on the other. However, it is precisely in the field of the transposition of this directive that we should discuss and implement all these elements; not merely the short-term elements, as this initiative does, but those of co-responsibility from the perspective of equal opportunities and the right to a dignified life. With all due respect, we believe that the motion on these values is nothing more than a somewhat opportunistic initiative and lacks any other justification and analysis of its context. As regards the translation of these cases into the specific case of the COVID, as has been mentioned here, already since article 6 of the Royal Decree - Law 8/2020, article 15 of the Royal Decree-Law 15/2020 and the additional third provision of the Royal Decree-Law 28/2020 have been extended until the date of 31 January those measures of the MeCare Plan. The motion refers in this context to an addition, that of the particular measure of parental leave, which in this case is intended to become pay. This without prejudice to a set of measures supported again in a state pact, now entitled 'For Conciliation', where, in addition to focusing on coordination with the autonomous communities and local entities - not on collaboration, which in law is not the same - they focus on proposals that lack content or affect the educational sphere, out of context again. That is why my group can hardly support any initiative whose content, as has become too common, is embodied in proposals for state pacts, which also affect, on a regular basis, competences which are of the autonomous communities or, where appropriate, shared. A few days ago, I was called the father of a girl who turns eighteen on December 17, two days from now. Despite being affected by a degree of disability recognition of 84 %, his father will lose the economic benefit of minor care affected by serious illness referred to in Articles 190 to 192 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, as a result of compliance with the eighteen-year age limit laid down in such legislation. This incongruous situation will force you to assume that the permit you currently receive at 50% will be unpaid and therefore any care measures will become even more burdensome. I did not say it at first, I say it now, this is one of those situations where the urgency prevents us from seeing what is really important. This is an assumption that the minister the other day defined as of familial force majeure. These are the issues that we must address when we are going to talk about conciliation, when we are going to talk about care and when we are going to talk about understanding common policies that will provide solutions to citizens through the administrations closest to them. That is why, with all due respect, Sarah, and not just for competition issues, but for some others, this initiative will not be able to count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u145	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u146	Good afternoon again. He discussed this earlier with the rapporteur of the initiative. With regard to the first point of the motion, we agree with this measure and, in the event of a point vote, we will vote in favour because, in fact, we have been calling for this allowance with the right to benefit for families with children and contacts who are positive and have to keep quarantine since the schools were reopened, which is not since March, because there are people who have already asked for it since March, but we expect schools to be opened and the cause to occur. By the way, we have even tabled it as an amendment in a non-care bill and we were voted against. Therefore, if we vote for it on points, we hope that you will have better luck on this issue. However, it is true that we do not share the proposal for a state pact for conciliation, not only because it is a state pact, but because conciliation, from our perspective, is a trap. We must change the paradigm and somehow ask you to ally. Conciliation is a trap. They speak of the covenant for care and I would add: and for life. That's the paradigm shift. The labour market must adapt to life rather than the other way around. On the basis of reproductive work it is how social policies and, in addition, policies relating to the uses of time should be structured. The approach of the initiative they have taken to this House, from our perspective, is traditionalist. Look at you talking about co-responsibility between men and women, but there are many families that aren't. There are multiple forms of family and co-responsibility must also be between the private and the public, because the public is also responsible for maintaining the ability to make life sustainable in our homes. The great learning of the COVID crisis is precisely this: what is important and what is subsidiary?What has the State endured and what has yielded because it has not endured the pressure; what must we defend at all costs and what must we not? And what should we defend? Health and life. In addition, this is a relevant contribution to the feminist agenda. Our proposal demands - I have already said - a paradigm shift. Care work must be understood as an essential economic and social contribution, reproductive work, which must be organized as a social responsibility and is not merely an individual responsibility. I must explain here, because perhaps you do not know him, that the Generalitat of Catalonia has been a pioneer in the Pact for hourly reform. By 2025 our timetables will have been theoretically equivalent to the European countries. Objective: rational and healthy schedules. The impetus for this new culture of time is essential because there are new social needs. We want to consolidate the time factor as well as a measure of freedom, equity and social justice. We bet on a life worthy of being lived, that it leaves behind capitalist approaches of accumulation of wealth and understands care tasks as the social responsibility that allows to have a future, a life worthy of being lived; that it also takes into account the different starting points of people and the intersections that pass through them to make a fair and redistributive public policy design. I end up manifesting something I don't have written. I've been involved in politics for many years, I know a lot of people and I've talked many times about this: people are not boxers. We're not little boxes that when we work we don't have kids, we don't have friends, we don't have parents, we don't have dependents; and when we go out we don't form, we don't grow up as employees too. We are one person, and we are workers and we are fathers, mothers, friends, couples, we are all at once. And this obsession with breaking times is an obsession with leaving people and simply making them slaves to a predatory economic system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u147	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Giménez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u148	I would like to inform you that we are proposing a compromise on some of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u149	All right. Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, in order for the Government to give its view on the assessment of the Governor of the Bank of Spain and the President of the Commission on the Macroeconomic Table included in the general budget of the State. [[File number 173/000043]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u150	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to give its view on the assessment of the Governor of the Banco de España and the President of the AIReF on the macroeconomic picture included in the General Budgets of the State. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Castellón Rubio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u151	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good night now. These days we are immersed in full governmental drunkenness as a result of the imminent approval of the General Budgets of the State for 2021. That, together with the observation that the rain of millions from Europe is finally coming, plunges us, with the help of the propaganda machine of Moncloa, into a festive environment very typical of these days, very typical of these dates. But like all excess ethyl intake, ladies and gentlemen, after the jar the hangover will arrive. And the hangover for Spain will be called 70 000 dead on the table; 86 000 companies less; 3 800 000 unemployed; 750 000 Spaniards subject to an ERTE who cannot work, even if they want to do so; strategic sectors totally devastated; public finances with a deficit that is going to end this year with 11.3% or a public debt of 20 points more than we had a year ago. That is the hangover, ladies and gentlemen, which we will face on 7 January, and whose gravity will leave us with consequences in the form of adjustments over the next decade, using Bank of Spain terminology. Well, this economic and social drama puts us in a dichotomy: either we remain drunk in the mirage of the abundance of resources that come from Europe and the satisfaction of distributing them as if one night of Kings were - that and little more - or we do the most difficult and at the same time the most necessary, which is to ensure the stability of public finances, to face the recovery of our economy with structural reforms and to help them, in addition, with an effective and efficient investment strategy of European funds. A situation as delicate as the one we are experiencing undoubtedly requires the courage and determination to do the second and, therefore, this motion of the People's Group in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, like everyone else, is subject to the rule of law and therefore the first point of our motion calls for something as simple as the government complying with the law. Last October 20th we approved in this Congress the suspension of the fiscal rules by 2021, which means that it is possible to incur a structural deficit. Citing the Minister of Finance herself, the suspension of the consolidation path does not imply a suspension of fiscal responsibility. Therefore, the Government cannot incur the irresponsibility to delay a further second submission of a rebalancing plan because, in addition, it is required by the Stability Act. More so when the Banco de España has insisted on the need to do so and also the AIReF which, after claiming it in May, has had to be repeated up to four times, the last as a result of its report prepared for the suspension of the tax rules, when it stressed that the formulation of this equilibrium scenario was mandatory. Now we will probably come Podemos and PSOE to tell us that here is already the right of the austerid PP and the Bank of Spain and the AIReF with its austerid manias, and not, ladies and gentlemen, what these two institutions do is to fulfil their duty, that it is no other than to ensure the exercise of responsibility and economic prudence, and this party, my party, what it does is to tell the citizens that with 120 % debt and a deficit untapped if we do not urgently have a plan that will gradually diminish it, we will put in jeopardy many public services that are being provided today and that probably cannot be maintained in the future. That is why the commitment of the Government of Spain to the sustainability of our public finances in the medium and long term is inescapable and inescapable, something that the Government is going to tell us - and it is going to do so now - what expenditure it plans to abolish or how it intends to increase the collection to deal with them. Basically, gentlemen of the PSOE, you cannot abdicate the responsibility arising from being on the Council of Ministers, from having the Government of Spain. You have to come here to explain to the Spaniards what is the horizon that awaits us in the coming years, whether we are facing a horizon of social cuts or whether we have a horizon of more taxes on families and businesses or whether we are going to have a horizon where we are going to have taxes and cuts, as happened when you ruled with Zapatero; by the way, with Mr Sánchez's support voting in favour of those measures. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this very week we have heard that the Transparency Council has communicated to the President of the Government up to twelve times that he meets his requirements in law enforcement and that he publishes various information related to his management. The President of the Government disheartenes and despises the Transparency Council, disheartenes and despises the AIReF, disheartenes and despises the Banco de España. And if you do this, how are we going to ask you not to reject the opposition and not to despise Parliament? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are before the most opaque government of democracy when precisely what we need is the opposite: transparency and accountability of the executive when it implements measures to get us out of the crisis. That is why it is essential for the Government to come to this House to be accountable and to appear regularly to report at least three aspects. Firstly, the budgetary deviations and the evolution of the deficit and the debt. Secondly, on the evolution of the implementation of the ICO lines. I would just like to remind you that more than EUR 84 billion of public guarantees have already been subscribed, so any execution, at least, is going to involve a commitment from the government's forecasts and, therefore, a greater deficit and more debt. Thirdly, let him come to this House to report on the state of the programmes associated with the Recovery Mechanism and on the fulfilment of the deadlines committed, bearing in mind that the State budget itself will depend to a large extent on their implementation. Since they have neither counted on the opposition nor counted on independents, at least they are accountable. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish economy needs responsibility, credibility and transparency, and none of these three qualities today are taken over by the Pedro Sánchez Government. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the hangover that is coming to us will be great and we will only be able to stop it with determination and with the combination of two painkillers: growth and fiscal rigour. That and, of course, end the party of government excesses already because we won't have the breath to climb the January coast. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u152	Thank you, Mr. Castellón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the VOX Group, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you have tabled a motion that we could agree with in principle, but it is generic to us, I would even say that it is somewhat confusing since it originally concludes by urging the Government to take the necessary measures to ensure that the imbalances in our public accounts do not endanger our welfare state. So, they leave to the free will of the government the choice of measures to maintain its welfare state, but what, that of the Spaniards or that of the politicians? You already know what awaits us: that the Government, following its ideological and totalitarian agenda, should do whatever is necessary to remain in power. Look, here the only motion that has put on the table what Spain needs is that which we tabled on 29 September, a motion of censure to this government, which you did not support and which made it clear that if you are not with the opposition, you are with the government. The same is true of its partial amendments to the Bildu budgets. This Government deserves an amendment to its entirety, its budgets and its management. [[Applauds]] With regard to his motion, which he submitted on 17 November, we twenty days earlier had already submitted a non-legislative proposal urging the Government to stop looking for these palm trees at the north pole, which I said a few days ago, and to design and submit to the Courts-General a medium-term rebalancing plan that introduces a strategy for reviewing public spending, the size of the public sector, the structure and capacity of tax figures, as well as a structural reform programme that will enable the economy to improve factor productivity and competitiveness in the medium- and long-term, and that includes comprehensive reforms on the supply side. Our proposals, aligned with the latest recommendations of both the AIReF and the Banco de España, highlight two issues: first, that the government has suspended the fiscal rules as permitted by the Stability Act in its first paragraph and, however, has not wanted to pay attention to the third paragraph of that article, which states that in these cases a rebalancing plan should be adopted to correct the structural deficit, and that it is in line with the mandate of the European Commission. However, the Government, in breach of constitutional requirements and the European Pact, does not intend to present this plan and I will prove it to you. At the hearing in the Committee on Budgets, both the Secretary of State for Budgets and the Secretary of Finance, I asked them when the rebalancing plan and they replied: ladies and gentlemen, the rebalancing plan will be presented when we have a stable country situation or when we know and see the turning point, that is, the full dimension of the damage; then we will be able to rearrange the rebalancing plan. That is, until we are sunk into the most absolute misery they do not intend to bring the plan of rebalancing or, what is the same, let us wait for the house to sink and so we will see more clearly the dimension of the solar to start building. [[Applauds]] Second question. We told them to bring a concrete programme of projects where they are going to invest the Recovery Funds, because we are not going to waste time, because companies continue to close, hundreds of thousands of Spaniards have lost their jobs and the queues of hunger continue to grow, and therefore they must include the real needs of the Spaniards in their agenda, although for this government the only agenda is that of Mr. Iglesias, the globalist agenda, of which you are co-operators because you signed it in 2015. Last week, the AIReF reiterated the need for a medium-term fiscal consolidation strategy that realistically and crediblely ensures the financial sustainability of public administrations. The Governor of the Banco de España, as you have also said, stressed the need to use budgetary policy to combat the economic consequences of the pandemic, and it was urgent - he said - to design a detailed medium-term budgetary consolidation plan that would help to place activity and employment on a path of sustained growth. But, gentlemen of the PP, I must say to you that we must stress that Spain has suffered the blow of this crisis from a position of disadvantage due to the starting position of our public accounts, with a high level of indebtedness, and there you have some responsibility because, although you have reduced the deficit from 9.7 to 2.5 in seven years, we see countries, like the Netherlands, which went from a deficit of 4.4 to a surplus of 1.3, or Ireland, which turned their deficit into a surplus. You did not take advantage of the good years to clean up public accounts because you did not reduce useless spending items, which the Social Communist Government is now taking advantage of to continue doping them in the midst of this great crisis. We have tabled an amendment which we have accepted and made a compromise which substantially improves your motion and which requires a consolidation plan and, ultimately, a road map leading to restoring the balance of our finances so that our children and grandchildren can sleep peacefully, because today the only ones who sleep peacefully are Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u155	Thank you, President. Good night. Today we are dealing with a subsequent motion of inquiry for the Government to give the view on the assessment of the Governor of the Banco de España and the President of the AIReF on the macro table. It is true that these interpellations may have their justification in all these emotions, but it seems that we are already going with a few on the same subject and I believe that the different groups have already positioned themselves in relation to it. Moreover, we have positioned ourselves around the macro table in the draft General Budgets of the State to be adopted shortly; then, I do not think that today they will get the support of the rest of the groups in this regard. It is obvious that we cannot talk about the macro framework on which the budget is based without taking into account that we are living in an unprecedented situation, a health crisis that has resulted in an economic and social crisis from which we do not know its duration and persistence and, of course, its actual effects; a crisis that is true that has altered all political agendas and priorities and that forces all public authorities to make decisions in a changing environment, and that is that we cannot deny that at best in two months, and perhaps less, these forecasts can change. In fact, they are already changing with the second wave of the disease, worsening the predictions, but it can even vary better with the application of the vaccine. I believe that you, the People's Party, understand very well the difficulty of making forecasts in an unpredictable context and with too wide a range of possibilities, and this should be reflected in that budget, as I have said. The second Vice-President also said that the forecasts are not written in stone and that the uncertainty is maximal. It is true that both the forecasts of the AIReF and the Banco de España are more pessimistic. They say that the economy is going to fall more than expected in 2020 and will have a worse start in 2021, although the supervisor, relating it to the vaccine, anticipates an acceleration of the recovery as well. The president of the AIReF transferred her discrepancies with regard to income forecasting, which was estimated in an optimistic scenario while spending was framed in a pessimistic scenario. That's something I'd probably worry about as soon as it's in itself that there's a contradiction. Both institutions believe that the recent worsening of the pandemic reduces the likelihood of compliance with the macro scenario, which is closer to the most optimistic predictions, but have not at any time denied that the level of recovery envisaged by the Government can be reached, even if they consider that scenario less plausible. The most appropriate thing is to have a more realistic macro picture and I am sure that the Government has managed different scenarios and I am also sure that, in case of any variation, it will be flexible and dynamic to review any deviations that may occur depending on the evolution of the pandemic and take as many measures as necessary because everything points, it is true, to the fact that the year 2021 will also be an uncertain year. As it was you, Mr. Garcés, who did the interpellation, I would like to know if you were in compliance with the macro framework and there were no deviations. Or were they not taking measures when they were in government to avoid imbalances? Did you guys appear every month for that? And, man, you can tell me that the situation is different because you also ruled during the 2008 crisis, which is true that it has nothing to do with this, but it is that, in order to give explanations to groups and, ultimately, to citizens, I think they are the same. And for all this, of course, we do not believe that the Government needs to appear monthly in Congress. It is true that you know that groups can ask for appearances, ministers and ministers also appear at their own request and we have parliamentary control on Wednesdays. In this regard, the mechanisms for explanations are more than sufficient, as when you have been in the Government. That is why we are voting against the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Good night now, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that at this stage in the legislature no one doubts the constructive - critical, but constructive - attitude that my parliamentary group has had during these months to get good budgets for the Spaniards. In the midst of a global pandemic and an economic crisis of incalculable magnitudes, party interests and acronyms had to be set aside to work for the Spaniards. In fact, we were the first - Mrs Arrimadas - to extend that hand and in March we proposed national emergency budgets to deal with the serious crisis that was to come. And all of Spain has witnessed in recent months that Citizens have worked to ensure that the General Budgets of the State did not reflect what the coalition government parties, PSOE and Unidad Podemos, have agreed: a massive rise in taxes to the middle classes. We succeeded in not doing so, and we also tried to prevent budgets from collecting nationalist demands and including counterproductive measures for the Spanish economy and equality. The negotiation has borne fruit - some fruits - and I would like to remind Mrs Navarro - I do not see her now - that to do ridiculously is to stay in the corner of the offended and the angry and not get anything in any negotiation with this government. [[Applauds]] To make a fool of it is to get nothing and Citizens have worked and achieved things, even if they are few. It has obtained a single health card and does not raise VAT to private health, special school or special school. We have also achieved a very important thing that we already knew, but that we needed to see and that all of Spain was a witness: to demonstrate clearly and clearly Sánchez's predilection and weakness for radical, populist and independent partners. We are faced with accounts that are far from the European demands, lacking sound forecasts and without the ambition to undertake urgent reforms, and I do not say this, which I have already said on sufficient occasions in the budgetary procedure, but which the various bodies and authorities of Spain - and also at international level - and the European Commission itself, legitimate bodies to offer an economic and financial opinion, such as the Bank of Spain or the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority itself, have warned of the excessive optimism of these accounts, that the data are not credible and the high risks of the government's macroeconomic forecasts contained in its budget plan. The same president of the AIReF said in this House that the government had ignored the recommendation on fiscal forecasts to be prudent, given the risks that existed in the macroeconomic scenario. We really regret that these are budgets that we do not like and we really regret that the historical aid that Spain is going to receive is not going to serve what it really should serve, which is to lay the foundations for a new, competitive, dynamic, innovative, digital and connected economy with the rest of the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, the European Union, the Bank of Spain and the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority have shown their misgivings about these budgets, as I personally have done on behalf of my parliamentary group on numerous occasions. I have already said that we will vote in favour of this motion, with the transactions incorporated, because we want the government to come to this House, to go into the background of the matter and to explain to the Spanish why it makes deaf ears to independent supervisory bodies and prefers the recipes of Rufián and Otegi rather than what Mr Hernández de Cos or Mrs Herrero propose. We want you to come here to present the rebalancing plan required by the law; to introduce a road map where there is an audit and a review of expenditure, and where the tax system is reviewed; to tell us what they will do to clean up public accounts, and to tell us when we will achieve economic sustainability. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I will not go into whether the macroeconomic estimates that the Government has included in the budgets are very optimistic or not, even if they probably are. The real problem is that you are already putting the bandage before the wound with your neoliberal prescriptions failed in the previous crisis. Weaknesses do, because, however much they boast, the truth is that their policies of cuts penalized the social majority by reducing rights, precariousing working and living conditions, generating more poverty, deteriorating public services, decreasing social protection, generating unemployment and emigration. In my country, Galicia, more than 300,000 young people had to march for lack of employment opportunities only in the decade of the crisis. That's right, they didn't all lose. Banks were rescued with our money and large companies benefited from more favourable working conditions at the expense of workers' rights. In short, social inequalities increased, the poor came out poorer and the rich richer. That's why I say they were a failure. If you strive to qualify them as successful, you will assume that you govern for the rich, although it is understandable that you do not want to admit it. As I said, the problem is that you come back with the old neoliberal dogmas: a plan for rebalancing, budgetary stability, financial sustainability, etc. Translated: more cuts, more insecurity and more impoverishment. The BNG is a sovereignist leftist force and we defend that the one to be rescued is the social majority of our country, the working class and the Galician popular classes, and it will not be with certainty with the old successful recipes only for a few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u160	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u161	Thank you, President. The truth is that while Mr Castellón was speaking, the services of the Chamber have distributed to us a transactional that was reading to me and, when listening to Mrs Cañizares from this rostrum, I have reviewed her again to see if the transactional was really signed and whether there really was an agreement or not, because listening to her here seemed like something was failing, and yes, yes, curiously it was signed. I am also surprised that the transactional introduces more realistic meaning in the first point with the contribution of VOX than that of the People's Party itself, which required a rebalancing plan at most two months, when everyone knows that the rebalancing plan in the current situation cannot be considered two months. With the intervention of VOX this rebalancing plan is already going to an indefinite medium term. It's the transactional that's been passed on to me; if there's another transactional, that wouldn't surprise me, as seen, let us get there. In any case, we are going to vote against this proposal, although that should not make the Socialist Party and the United Nations believe that we do not agree that there should be a rebalancing plan. I'm glad I heard the economic vice president from this rostrum. Another thing is how you want to focus on the rebalancing plan, and with some of the measures that you are pointing out in your proposal we do not agree. Of course, the situation is very complex, as much or more complex than it could have been in 2012. Was there a tax increase in 2012? Yeah. And there was an adjustment and a cut in expenses? Yeah. We must be realistic and see what the situation is, but the solution at the moment is not a motion with principles that you clearly know are not going to be implemented. In any case, we urge the Government from this rostrum to end the most acute and sour part of this crisis, which is health, to assess the economic and social consequences of this crisis and to work on a realistic medium- and long-term scenario in every respect. And realistic means working on a rebalancing plan, and realistic means working on structural reforms, some of which should be implemented from our perspective with the help of European funds, of which we will have the opportunity to speak more calmly tomorrow. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u163	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The reason for the motion now before us has already been thoroughly debated in this House over the last few months. Both Vice-President Calviño and Minister Montero have referred in detail to this matter and the lengthy budget debate has been truly shammed by this argument; basically, it is still a variant of the old and well-known remedy according to which the Government lies and, therefore, the Government is untrustworthy. They have stretched so much this maximum that Mr Casado did not hesitate to travel to Brussels to warn our European partners of this extreme, it will not be that Spain received the aid and transfers necessary to get out of this terrible crisis. Little did they care that they would go through the interests of all Spanish citizens if, in the end, the dart made a dent in the Executive. The problem is that this argument, according to which the government's economic forecasts are out of reality, has no path and I think it never had it on these three grounds. The first of these is that the Banco de España, the AIReF and any body that dares to set forecasts today always begin to warn of the high degree of uncertainty that exists and that is why they always take care to set different scenarios, which becomes in the appearance of fluctuation bands. Well, it happens that the government, which does not have the ease to play with bands, but has to bet on a single scenario, publishes forecasts that turn out to be within the scenarios contemplated by both the Banco de España and the AIReF. Thus, the latest forecasts of the Banco de España, published very recently last Friday, say that, at best, the Spanish economy will fall by 10.7 in the year 2020, that is, 0.5 points less than the forecasts that the Government manages, and will grow by 8.6 in the year 2021, that is to say 1.4 points more than the Government's forecasts. Well, if the AIReF has endorsed the macroeconomic picture referred to Europe, if the Banco de España calculates a central scenario in which the government forecast moves, then the whole debate should end here. But no, that reality doesn't spoil your PP lordships that dart they've been sharpening for so long. So let's explore two more arguments to see if this time we can get them out of their migraine. Let us go to the countries in our environment and see how they have resolved this very debate. Occasionally, all European governments are also viewed as optimistic in their forecasts by their central banks or tax liability bodies. For example, the German Government plans to increase GDP by 4.4% by 2021, i.e. 1.4 points more than planned by its central bank. In France there has been somewhat less controversy, as his Government's optimism has only exceeded its banking authority's growth forecasts by 6 tenths. Finally, the Italian Government plans to increase GDP by 5,1 % by 2021, i.e. well above the 3,5 calculated by its central bank. What is the reason, therefore, for this natural desire presented by these governments? Does the will to lie to their people move them, as the People's Party of the Spanish Government presupposes, or is it perhaps because the governments are obliged to believe in the effectiveness of their measures? Perhaps, because if they didn't believe in them, they should present others or resign as a bloc. But if all this does not convince you, do not worry that I still have a silver bullet, which you gentlemen of the People's Party left at the time of being evicted from the government. Thus, it happens that the estimates included in the 2012 and 2013 budgets were swept away by a tsunami of reality as this country has rarely seen. In 2012, the forecast for GDP fall, minus 1.7%, was pulverised by a real fall of 3%, almost twice as much as expected. They could have learned for the following year, but they did not; at that time they predicted a smooth fall, of at least 0.5%, far from the forecasts of the Bank of Spain and the European Commission and, therefore, far from the real fall of 1.4%, which actually took place. Well, you were the victims, gentlemen of the PP, of the syndrome that you now attribute to the government. The AIReF itself, in a report published in 2017, warned of the biases recorded in the estimates made by the government during the period 2013-2016; not to mention the predictive capacity of Mr Montoro in calculating annual deficits, which I do not know if they remember, but it is very similar to that which I have for quinielas, that is, terribly low. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the ocean of uncertainty in which we move, this forces us to be very cautious. Therefore, your proposal to approve a fiscal consolidation plan as soon as possible is not only out of time - as has already been said, we do not yet know what or how much to consolidate - but rather responds to the will of its proponents to rescue an ideology that is in direct decline rather than to a sincere vocation to secure the shoulder. I conclude by telling your PP lords that you can recite as many times as you want the Ordolic principles, you can also summon the fairies of austerity in the hope that the market god will appear to them and everything will be fixed, but the truth is that there is no such thing as this.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u164	Mr. Guijarro, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u165	Yes, Madam President, I'm done. What we have is the state, which is not infallible but it is what we have. I therefore ask you not to weaken the only tool that can get us out of this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u167	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of the PP - Mr. Castellón -, you are to talk about hangovers. Respite which you have left in this country, and from which the Spanish still suffer the consequences, with their cuts in health, education, dependency and pensions; that is the true respite which has suffered in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, in the midst of the worst crisis of our lives you have profiled yourselves and have not helped your country. Not content with that, they have come to vote no to the state of alarm and absolutely necessary measures to save lives and jobs. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u168	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u169	They have then done their utmost to try to ensure that European funds are not approved. As they failed to do so - remember? - they tried to convince Brussels to put conditions on us, and neither did they. But they have not stayed there; they have tried to make sure that this country does not have General State Budgets, the most necessary in forty-two years of democracy. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] But we know that they are not going to be happy and they are going to do everything possible to ensure that the budgetary objectives are not met either. What's to lie about? He's lying. What's to be fooled? He's cheating. What's to be crespared? Cry. What is wrong with Spain in Europe? There is a bad talk about Spain in Europe. And you allow yourselves to come here today to give lessons to this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Yeah, don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u170	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u171	They are also talking about forecasts of inflated revenue, and you say this, that during all the years of the mandate of the governments of Mariano Rajoy not one, ladies and gentlemen, met the deficit targets and accumulated a gap of 25 billion euros. [[Applauds]] However, I will admit that they are telling a truth in their motion, in which I have to give them reason, and it is that in this crisis we cannot again make mistakes in the past. That's why – you know? – in the face of their labor reform, the ERTE to protect 3.5 million Spaniards; in the face of their rescue to the bank, the rescue to the companies and the self-employed through the ICO's guarantees; in the face of the refusal to extend coverage for the unemployed who no longer had any benefits, came the launch by this government of an extraordinary subsidy for those who were no longer entitled or the benefit for cessation of activity for the self-employed, and in the face of what happened in 2014 – remember?-, where 11% of Spaniards could not pay the bills of electricity, water or heating, this government has banned the cuts in supplies or approved at the worst moment of our lives the minimum living income. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] But not content with that, they are committed to questioning the macroeconomic picture as well and they keep saying that there are uncertainties. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic this Government, the Government of Spain, has always taken the situation and the economic forecasts very carefully. And of course the scenario is changing, of course the scenario is uncertain here, in Europe and around the world; of course the government has considered potential risks such as the risk of the pandemic evolving, geopolitical tension, possible structural damage or difficulties in managing European funds. But it is no less true that today we have vaccines, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain is the first country in the European Union, together with Germany, which has already approved a vaccination plan, that the election results of the United States clear the trade crises - yes, ladies and gentlemen - or that this government prepares a real decree-law so that European funds can be speeded up and that public-private collaboration can also be encouraged. [[rumors]] I'm done. Today is not the time for cuts or a rebalancing plan. Spain, like Europe, is committed to fiscal stability and fiscal consolidation, but the first thing is to save families and our productive fabric because if not, there will be nothing to rebalance. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not going to find us getting out of this crisis more unequally, but you are going to find us not leaving anyone behind. Spain can, you can, too. Try it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Casares. Mr Castellón, I understand that the motion will be voted on in terms of the compromise that has been distributed to all groups. [[Consent]] Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We'll vote in four minutes. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. Thank you. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, we have started voting. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposal for a popular initiative law on nurse ratios to ensure patient safety in health facilities and other areas. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 241 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 105 plus 207 telematics votes, 312; against, 10 telematics votes; abstentions, 24 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u174	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u175	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, organic, amending the Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, of the Judicial Power, for the establishment of the legal regime applicable to the General Council of the Judicial Power in office. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 106 plus 241 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 73 plus 115 telematics votes, 188; against, 33 plus 219 telematics votes, 252; abstentions, 7 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-12-15-CD201215.u176	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night. It was nine and fifty minutes of the night.
