ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u1	The meeting was resumed. Very good morning. We begin with the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, done at Brussels on 6 February 2019. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups who so wish to set their positions. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor. [[Denials]] Don't you? Thank you. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u2	Good morning. I just wanted to make a point. We want to welcome the agreement that has enabled the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Greece to resolve their dispute over the name; this is important in itself, it is an important step towards peace between the two countries and it represents a great rapprochement between the Western Balkans and the European Union, a region that we consider crucial in both Spanish and Community foreign policy. We respect the sovereignty of each country and the elections they make as a State, as it could not otherwise be; however, we want to point out that from our vision NATO represents a collective security system inherited from the Cold War that we should overcome. The expansionary and confrontational policy pursued by the Transatlantic Alliance, which has managed nothing to resolve without bulging conflicts, must give way to a new European architecture that maintains its independence from governments such as Donal Trump, with its own security and defence agenda, with democratic control and guided by a policy of conflict resolution based on dialogue, cooperation, the culture of peace and human rights. And for all this, we are going to vote abstaining from this protocol. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Rosety Fernández de Castro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this first speech I have to express the honour that it is for me to address the representatives of the nation. The Protocol of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to NATO signed solemnly on 6 February 2019 is being ratified by each of the twenty-nine member States of the Alliance. In November last year, the United States Senate ratified it by an overwhelming majority, and it is expected that all member countries will agree to this new expansion, the seventh since the signing of the Atlantic Pact. The VOX Group supports this expansion, although our concern about the way in which the defence debate is often stolen from citizens leads us to set our position. We therefore urge the Government not to hide itself in the false excuse of international consensus on security issues in order to continue to turn its back on the challenges facing Spain as a strategic actor. Northern Macedonia is a country of 2 million people whose small army, of about 12,000 troops, has already successfully participated in NATO missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. We believe that its incorporation into the Alliance is positive in expanding the area of security and stability under the auspices of the Alliance in Europe. No one questions the desire of the populations of the societies of the east of the continent to benefit from it as a future also to the European Union, moving away from the long shadow and the disastrous memories of the communist regimes that they had to endure when they were under Soviet rule. No one questions it or we believe that, although it is or will be surprising, ladies and gentlemen of the progressive coalition or social-communist, to see them acquiesce in this initiative. I must tell you, however, that the expansion of NATO to 30 members from the 16 existing at the end of the Cold War has posed a number of challenges in terms of strategic cohesion, internal functioning and costs that, if they are not faced responsibly, can lead to instability and inefficiency where security is sought. To avoid this, each must contribute to the extent of its capacity. At the last NATO summit, the President of the United States reiterated the unsustainability of the alliance model while the European allies did not take on their fair financial contribution and strategic commitment. And he wasn't talking about Northern Macedonia, I'm sure he was willing to do his homework, he was talking about member nations that don't spend 2% of GDP to meet their own commitments. And Spain, ladies and gentlemen, with socialist but also popular governments, has come to be, with a shameful 0.91, almost in the tail van. We are told that there are many other needs in the state, we have already checked it by seeing them hand over EUR 4 billion - almost half of our small defence budget - to their separatist partners. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, let us assume the role of Spain as a responsible and reliable strategic actor in ensuring that interest and national cohesion themselves benefited from them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Rosety. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. The subscription by the Government of Spain of the Protocol of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization pursuant to Article 94.1 of the Constitution is submitted for authorization by the Congress of Deputies. NATO's history is a success story in defending our social and cultural model; its preamble cites as a commitment by the twelve initial signatories and the twenty-nine present the commitment to safeguard the freedom, common heritage and civilization of our peoples on the principles of democracy, individual freedoms and the rule of law. The text of the same treaty mentions in Article 10 the possibility of incorporating other European countries which respect and commit themselves to the defence of these principles. Today we welcome the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a defence organization in which we share with twenty-eight other different social model countries, but the same political model based on democracy, individual rights and the rule of law. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Spaniards of the defensive nature of this Alliance, which we have been part of since 1982, and in which we have held the number seven in terms of the budget allocation for the defence of the general budgets of the State, only very little ahead of Belgium - which shares with us the environment of 0.9 % of gross domestic product - and ahead of Luxembourg with 0.55. Defence is intrinsically linked to security; without defence security cannot be guaranteed and without security it is not possible to consolidate the concept of the rule of law or the welfare state. Security in turn is directly related to the deterrent capacity of the armed forces of a nation, a deterrent capability that, if credible and effective, allows for the resolution of conflicts by peaceful means. In order to obtain this deterrent capacity, we must become aware that it is neither obtained nor maintained without a minimal increase in the budget for defence, in order to minimally increase the salaries of our professionals and invest in weapons systems that guarantee their safety while exercising the guarantee of our security. The scope of the objectives pursued by NATO for many years to extend the 2% level of gross domestic product to all NATO countries seems to be an unrealistic target at the moment in the short and medium term. However, a minimal increase in budget allocations for defence could demonstrate our commitment to ourselves and our allies to make greater efforts in our collective defence of our model of civilization. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Gutierrez. Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization could be defined as a military, international and intergovernmental political alliance in which its member States pledged to assist in achieving a common goal. This objective is to guarantee the freedom, security and democracy of its members through the initial use of political means. This is their first purpose, the use of political means and, if necessary, the use of military means. All this on the basis of a principle: collective defence. Since its creation in 1949 - more than seventy years ago - the twenty-nine member countries have been incorporating themselves at different rates. Thus, Spain joined in 1982, so I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that next 2022 will be the 40th anniversary of our membership in NATO. In order to achieve this incorporation, a protocol must be complied with or ratified, which is what brings us here today, and we must approve the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. And I say, we must approve, because it makes no sense to vote against or question at the last minute; it would be disrespectful to one of our allies. North Macedonia is a country that has been part of the NATO Partnership for Peace since 1995, which has provided human and material resources in different NATO missions, both in Europe and in other countries such as Afghanistan and beyond; it has provided a large number of human lives. Already in 2008 it was agreed by NATO members, with the support of Spain, to invite the then-called former Democratic Republic of Macedonia to become a de facto member of NATO. That, on one condition, should come to an agreement with Greece on its constitutional name, within the framework of the United Nations, since the denomination and use of symbols by the former Republic of Yugoslavia of Macedonia clashed with the historical demands of a Greek region whose denomination and symbols were common... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u10	This condition was remedied last June 2018, when the Prime Ministers of Athens and Skopje reached an agreement on this, thus opening the way for the full incorporation of North Macedonia into NATO. On February 6, 2019 - more than a year ago, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year ago - the twenty-nine NATO countries signed the Protocol of Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in Brussels, and this is what we must ratify now. Northern Macedonia, ladies and gentlemen, is a small country of just 2.1 million inhabitants, but with great strategic importance. It is located in the heart of the Balkans, the border with Serbia and Kosovo, a convulsive area that has gone through different armed conflicts that in some cases have brought Europe back to its darkest history, which still keeps unresolved issues and where some of ours, our military, have left their lives. It also borders Bulgaria, Greece and Germany. Northern Macedonia is a country that guarantees stability, our security, the security of south-eastern Europe, so, ladies and gentlemen, what brings us here is that we have to accept and ratify the accession of a brother country, of a country that helps us, of a country that provides security and stability to Europe, that is, it cooperates in our defence. We must ratify North Macedonia's accession to NATO. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Cantera.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u12	We continue with the agenda items on the Government's agreement to align the fiscal stability and public debt targets for the public administrations as a whole and for each of its subsectors for the year 2020 and to set the non-financial expenditure limit on the State budget for the year 2020. And the Government's agreement setting the budgetary stability and public debt targets for the general government and each of its sub-sectors for the period 2021-2023 and the non-financial spending limit for the state budget for the year 2021, which will be discussed cumulatively, as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons. To present the agreements, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u13	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. We are indeed discussing this morning the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 11 February, by which we adapt the path of budgetary stability and public debt for the general government as a whole to the economic, social and political reality of our country. Similarly, I will also inform you of the non-financial expenditure ceiling, the so-called expenditure ceiling, for 2020, which, as you know, is not a question for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that this is not another debate; it is not, first of all, because the stability path currently in place is the one that was adopted in this House no more or less than in July 2017. It has been almost three years, when there have been numerous changes in the social reality of the country, in the expression of our political plurality, as well as in the representation of the various groups present here in this House, but above all there have been differences in the priorities that the Government assigns to economic and budgetary policies. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is a government that works with a firm commitment: to make compatible the recovery of the social state, the welfare state and the defense of the middle and working classes of this country with the progress in reducing the deficit and the public debt, thus fulfilling our European commitments. In other words, we advocate the sustainability of public accounts as a guarantee of the present and the future, but we do so in a prudent and realistic way, without putting economic growth or job creation at risk. Nor is it another debate because, as you are well aware, the adoption of the path is part of the basic dynamic to start working on the General Budgets of the State. No Administration - I would say that no advanced country - can afford to operate with public accounts that do not meet the needs or challenges of society. In fact, our Constitution provides for the mechanism of budgetary extension - as, in fact, has happened up to eight times throughout our history - but they will agree with me that the reasonable, the optimal, the logical thing is that the country has annual budgets that allow for the proper collection of forecasts of expenditure and revenue according to the real situation of the economy. That is why I encourage you from the outset to exercise your work of opposition with responsibility, which we have before the citizens of this country, because we can disagree - and, indeed, we do - with the policies of the Government, because it is something healthy and acceptable in democracy, but it is not, on the contrary, an attempt to block the normal functioning of the country. But it is also, ladies and gentlemen, that the path that we now have in force is that approved by the People's Party Government and which served as the basis for the 2018 budgets, being an unreal path, as the international authorities, the Bank of Spain and the AIReF itself warned at the time. That is why, following the motion of censure, we have tried to change the path - they will be agreed - by providing greater flexibility for the Autonomous Communities and Social Security, approximately EUR 25 billion in each case. However, the People's Party and Citizens rejected it; not only that, but they used the institutions torturingly to prevent the amendment of section 15 of the Organic Budget Stability Act to maintain the Senate's veto capacity, a question that we have fortunately begun to reverse during this legislature. In fact, this very Tuesday this House approved the adoption of the legislative initiative which, with its approval, will make it possible. Ladies and gentlemen, neither today's Spain is that of 2017 nor the international and geopolitical economic reality in which we are moving is the same, nor are the challenges that we have identified as a society the same. That is why I have started my speech by saying that it is important to ensure balanced accounts, but it is also important to ensure social cohesion, the provision of effective service to citizens, the restoration of rights lost during the crisis, inclusive economic growth and the generation of decent employment. They are all compatible objectives and we have to push for them. Moreover, we from the Government argue that there can be no economic progress unless there is also social progress. The path of stability that I present to you is prudent and realistic, with the mandatory endorsement of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the National Commission for Local Administration. Both organs gave their approval on the last 7 and 10 days, respectively. In detail, the deficit target for the current year will be 1.8% of the gross domestic product for the general government as a whole. The highest percentage of distribution will be for Social Security, with 1.1 %, compared to 0.5 % for the Central Administration and 0.2 % for the Autonomous Communities. As you know, the municipalities are already in budgetary equilibrium. With the path we propose, the greatest effort in deficit reduction will again fall to the central administration, as it also happened in 2019, while we give greater flexibility to autonomous communities and social security. In other words, the slope that we self-impose in the General Administration of the State is the most steep and complicated in relation to which other administrations have to commit. This demonstrates the Government's firm commitment to the welfare state, to the policies developed by the autonomous communities, to health care, to education or to social services, but also to pensions. You know, as usual, that until the end of March we will not have the budgetary closure data for 2019 to send it to Brussels. Therefore, if we take as reference the last data of the closure that we have, the one corresponding to 2018, the Central Administration will have to reduce its deficit, with this incorporated path, from 1,32, year 2018, to 0,5, year 2020, an effort of eight tenths. However, Social Security will have to reduce its deficit by 3 tenths, from 1.44 to 1.1, while the fiscal effort required of the autonomous communities, between 2018 and 2020, is just 1 tenth. That is why we want the autonomous communities - ultimately those responsible for the policies closest to the citizens - to continue to make progress in fulfilling their fiscal commitments, and that is why the provision of public services is in no way affected. As for the period 2021-2023, our commitment is to reduce the deficit by 1.5 by 2021, 1.2 by 2022 and 0.9 by 2023. In other words, with the new path of stability, the central administration will gradually reduce its deficit to 0.1 by 2023. For the same year, it is also envisaged that Social Security will have limited its deficit to 0.8, while the autonomous communities and local entities will be in budgetary equilibrium. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, deficit commitments may be interchangeable between AGE and Social Security if definitively, within the framework of the Toledo Pact, within the framework of the future reform of the pension system, the social security deficit is considered to pass to the central administration, to the general administration of the State, elements that we will be working on throughout this year to make it a reality in successive years. Let me conclude this first part of my speech on the deficit target, reminding the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Bank that Mariano Rajoy's government systematically failed to meet the deficit targets until it accumulated €32 billion in gap over the initial targets. I say that, ladies and gentlemen, because then we have to listen here in the gallery how you intend to boast of good managers. With regard to public debt, I would remind you that with the previous government of the PSOE it stood at 69,5 % of GDP in 2011 and that successive governments of the PP raised it to 98,1. This Government undertakes to maintain a downward path to below 90% by 2023, namely 89.8%. As a sign that we are capable of fulfilling what we say, last week the Banco de España released the 2019 debt closure, which was reduced to 95.5% of GDP with a decrease of 2.1 points. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the largest annual reduction in a decade and is four tenths below the target we set with Brussels, which was 95.9%, which shows that public debt has been falling at the highest pace since 2007. More graphically speaking, this government has done in one year what the government of Mariano Rajoy did in three, so that then the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group want to give effective lessons in management. Finally, the compatible expenditure rule is 2.9% for this year, 1 tenth more than the current path, and for 2021, 2022 and 2023 the limits are 3%, 3.2% and 3.3%, respectively. At this point I will be allowed to stop and talk about the importance of this instrument. You know that this tool, the expenditure rule, is essential to ensure that the evolution of structural public expenditure is in line with the growth of the economy and, in addition, to ensure that the financial sustainability of this expenditure is ensured in a medium-term budgetary equilibrium. But already since the last legislature, in the government we are interested in making a change to this tax rule; that is, we have to analyse the implications of its application in each of the territorial entities to which it affects. I am aware of these implications and of the aspirations of both the autonomous communities that are already in surplus and, above all, of the municipalities. It is the municipal administration that has for the longest time maintained its budgetary balance, and the Government is changing this fiscal rule to better align it with the concepts of expenditure that these administrations have and their ability to respond to citizens' problems. I am aware that one of the political groups in this House - specifically, Bildu, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, Compromís and More Country - and, for example, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, have asked the government to relax the spending rule and I want to tell you that we are going to collect this request. [[Applauds]] We understand and know that the contribution of autonomous communities and local entities to the balance of State accounts is beyond doubt, they have demonstrated this throughout this period and our intention is to make a new spending rule with a methodology that allows greater scope for local entities and autonomous communities. Having said that, they know that revisions to some aspects of this rule have been addressed, in particular the rules that contemplate or regulate the fate of surplus. Firstly, for the local entities where we have reformed the legislation so that the surplus is opened up so that a greater volume of financially sustainable investments can be made, and we will also establish a route that will allow a greater use of this so-called surplus by incorporating multiannual expenditure, which is a commitment demanded in a special way by local entities and, secondly, by incorporating greater concepts to respond to some demands of the citizenry, such as expenditure to avoid depopulation, education or environmental expenditure or current expenditure on employment promotion. These are some of the lines in which local entities have conveyed to us their vocation to contribute to these great challenges of the Government and, therefore, we will open the incorporation of the IFS of these investments so that policies directed in this direction can be developed. Another issue that also reflects this agreement of the Council of Ministers is precisely, together with the objectives of stability and public debt, the limit of the non-financial expenditure ceiling, the one known as the expenditure ceiling, for the State, although I would like to refer to them again that this data is not put to the vote. There is sometimes some confusion about this, but what your honourable Members are definitely voting on is the framework of the stability path. For this year, this expenditure limit amounts to EUR 127 609 million, an increase of 3.8% over the 2019 core budget. This is an increase in line with this compliance with the path of stability and fiscal rules, but at the same time with this commitment we have made to the recovery of citizens' rights and to progress in social policies. The data I have just provided in themselves are consistent with the growth forecast for our country, estimated at 1.6% in 2020, growth above the European average. In fact, among the great economies of the eurozone, Spanish will probably be the fastest growing one this year. It is a forecast that coincides with the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, and one tenth below the growth estimated by the Bank of Spain. It is an economic growth that will be maintained at similar levels in the period 2021-2023, with a slight increase at the end of this period, according to the forecast of the international organizations that I have just mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by appealing again to your sense of responsibility. I believe that with this path of stability this country plays a lot, we play it all the citizens, because they will be able to disagree with this government, but, if today they reject the new path, the pensioners, the unemployed, the most vulnerable people will be the ones who, in the end, suffer the consequences; because, if today this new path is rejected, they will be in favour of objectives that are currently in force, objectives that were approved with Mr Rajoy's governments, objectives that are unrealistic and that involve less resources for local administrations and less resources also for the autonomous communities. And reality has shown that the path of the People's Party government was unrealistic. In 2019 Mr Rajoy's government wanted the autonomous communities to make an adjustment from 0.28 that closed in 2018 to 0.1%, i.e. two tenths of GDP of more than EUR 2 billion. However, all the data we manage suggest that the autonomous communities will close 2019 with a deviation of around 0.5%. If we remove or extract the data relating to the VAT information system, we will be talking about 0.3%, so this path faces them with an effort of just one tenth to reduce this deficit. If, on the other hand, this proposal is rejected, the target for this year of autonomous communities will not be 0,2 % proposed by the Government, but 0 %. Therefore, rejecting it is detrimental to the spending path of the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the end, with the warnings from this rostrum not to make such mistakes, the right-wing parties do not demagogue, because, when they prevent flexibility from being given to local governments or autonomous communities and come this narrow by their own policies, they reproach this government for not being able to contemplate greater sensitivity with these territorial administrations. [[Applauds]] I'll be more specific, ladies and gentlemen. If today we reject this path, Social Security would have to reduce its spending capacity by almost 7.5 billion and the autonomous communities by another 3.5 billion. And this is what we are discussing today, because if you say no, you would be saying no to the increase in non-contributory pensions and minimum pensions, which benefit more than 460,000 people; if you say no, you are also saying no to the increase in contributory pensions for almost 10 million people, you would say no to the increase in the pension regulatory base, you would be denying the extension of the paternity permit from five to eight weeks, the re-evaluation of the family benefit per dependent child over eighteen years and the economic benefit of the people who died as a result of violence against women. And in this section, ladies and gentlemen, let me also regret from the rostrum once again the death yesterday of three women murdered by their partners in an inconceivable, intolerant situation of macho violence, which among all the groups in the House we have to combat. [[Applauds]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that if you lend your support to the path of stability, do not think that you are giving your vote to the Government. Frankly, I believe that what is being done is to meet the responsibility of the welfare state and the progress of all Spaniards. Therefore, I would like to thank all the groups who are going to vote in favour of this path for their sensitivity and for the work they have done. The rest of the groups were moved to approve today this improvement in public spending. The right-wing groups in this House have already voted against it; they prefer to take Mr Rajoy's path, with the unrealistic path, which prevents greater spending capacity for autonomous communities, social security and local entities. I am sorry, because you know that it is impossible to fulfil that path, and the only thing that makes it clear is that they remain in the blockade, in the inability to assume the outcome of democracy, of the elections and, therefore, that this Government can advance its own policy. I hope that they will be able to react and start working, as citizens expect, by providing their point of view, their differential point, and not by contributing to the blockade, which is an undemocratic attitude in a rule of law. And to the rest of the political groups and, specifically, to those who have expressed their doubts about the approval of this path, to Junts per Catalunya, I would like to convey to you that I have many reasons not to block the approval of this path, but, among them, perhaps the most important is that we are conducting a political dialogue, but knowing that we cannot abandon the urgent problems, the daily problems. Yesterday, you said it, it is about moving forward in political dialogue, but not mixing it, not interfering with day-to-day issues of the citizens who have to be settled. And this path of stability is certainly better for Catalonia; it would have a deficit target of 0.2%, whereas it currently has a deficit target of 0. Undoubtedly, what is good for Catalonia is something that groups have to support. And, thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, because it obviously seems strange, it is still rare that they join their vote to the popular bench, to the ultra-right, which approved that path of stability which, in the event of the rejection of what we are presenting today, would be the one that would remain in force, Mr Rajoy's path. That is why, because it is good for Catalonia, because it is good for Spain, I appeal, in particular, to them to vote in the sense of not blocking the processing of this path. And to the rest of the groups, I hope that with the issues that I have moved has satisfied some of the issues that they had raised with regard to the capacity of the municipalities and the autonomous communities, in particular on the rule of expenditure and the use of surplus. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this first step in the construction of the budget will allow us to have public accounts in line with our fiscal commitments within a short time, but also as an air of hope for all citizens, who need to be reflected in their rights, aspirations and expectations. In that task you will find the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u14	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Mrs Rodríguez Herrer intervenes in a position-setting session by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister of Finance and Government Spokesman, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, today we come here to discuss two agreements of the Council of Ministers which, as the Minister of Finance explained at that meeting that she gave us, are the trigger for the exit of the General Budgets of the State. In the first they modify the budgetary stability target set for 2020, so as, as they say, to adapt it to the current economic and budgetary reality - well, to what they consider appropriate with their government policies -; they point out that the deficit reduction path planned for the period 2019-2020 has not been implemented - because they did not consider it appropriate - and that this is why a non-financial spending limit is being adjusted and set for the preparation of general state budgets for 2020 that you say are going to be reliable, economically coherent and feasible for Spain in its current situation. That is to say, they are warning us that they want to bring to this House a draft budget for the current year with a revised deficit target. Indeed, the scenario of the unaltered budgets for 2019 marked a deficit target - see that I am going there, which was yours - for the general government as a whole of 1.8 for the year just closed, for 2020 of 1.1 % and for 2021 of 0.4 %. In the 2019-2022 stability plan, which they presented on 30 April 2019, last year's target was already slightly worse - it reached up to 2% - and marked a path that maintained the 2020 and 2021 target and led to budgetary balance in 2022. I'm not talking about Mr. Rajoy's paths, I'm talking about his paths. Finally, in both cases, the deficit target for 2020 was 1.1% of GDP, seven tenths better than what we are now presenting. The plan received a very negative opinion from the Commission, which in its autumn programme concluded that Spain is suffering from macroeconomic imbalances, with one of the highest unemployment rates in the European Union and a deficit and a public debt that have not just been reduced, which, by the way, are being maintained in the evaluation report of the countries we met yesterday. As stated at the outset, we are told that this agreement is adopted in accordance with article 15 of the Organic Stability Act and sets global deficit and debt targets broken down by subsectors. It is accompanied by a macroeconomic scenario 2019-2023 and sets a non-financial spending ceiling for the State of EUR 127,609 million, 3.8% more than what they call the base budget for 2019, which worked with extended budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, the Stability Act does not lay down procedures for adopting half-yearly budgets, and, if appropriate, if they are to be assimilated to the ordinary procedures and on their dates, this agreement should be accompanied by the corresponding recommendations and opinions issued by the European institutions on the stability programme of Spain, which is not done. On the other hand, the agreement goes from points on the expenditure rule, which is binding on all administrations, which states that expenditure growth cannot exceed that of real GDP in each year and that, although it is calculated in terms of national accounts, the approved one deviates significantly from the growth estimated in the scenario 1,6 % of GDP and already marks us that it must lead to a considerable increase in taxes. By not facilitating the calculation of the difference or the reports to which I have referred, Minister, you are asking us for an act of faith and already - I'm sorry - we are a little burned with the way to administer socialist to give it to you. In addition, in order to be able to reasonably analyse the 2020 target and the stability path itself contained in the second agreement, we have another obstacle. How has 2019 been closed? I am no longer talking about meeting the disaggregated objectives contained in the stability programme, but simply about how it ended. Is it consistent with what we're being offered? If we read reports from different institutions, including the Banco de España, we seem to agree that we will close 2019 with a deficit of 2,4 or 2.5% of GDP, in which Social Security would consume around 1.5% of GDP, partly offset by local corporations - you know it well - that could reach a surplus of four tenths. It is by no means apparent how results could be improved by seven tenths of GDP with a budget that is not known when it will be adopted, with tax measures that at the moment do not reach or come close to that figure, especially when only part of the year would be in force, and, more importantly, with its conception of inclusive growth, in the face of the redistribution of growth, which means, for what we understand, expenditure, expenditure and more expenditure. And in this respect, it is also not clear how the social security deficit will be reduced, which the European Commission has also criticised in the evaluation report I mentioned earlier; that is because I do not go into the macro table, which I leave behind, because I now want to make a reference to something that I think is important. Last week, Mrs Montero, I asked you about the timetable for Parliament's approval of the 2020 budgets and, if necessary, of the 2021 budgets, and you did not have the right to answer me. He made it clear, but he used his time to mess with his predecessor, Mr. Montoro, one of his favorite sports, and he didn't answer me. He's fired up today and he's talking about the Rajoy government. Anyway, the truth is, I didn't get your answer, and maybe I'll get it a little better now. The question was the result of his intervention at the post-Council press conference that approved the scenario, in which he said that he would prepare the 2020 budgets throughout the summer and that they would be presented to Congress in September to start his parliamentary process. I didn't get the bills and missed the 2021 project on that calendar, and that's why I asked. They had also said that they would not bring the budget until they had secured their support. When she appeared before the Finance Committee a week ago, I understood that they would present the budget before the summer because they were going to do an accelerated processing. What had changed? The meeting with Mrs Darias' PNV in which she met the request of this party to transfer the management of social security to the Basque Government, with a very different scope when explained by the minister than when explained by Mr Erkoreka? Or the shameful table that was held yesterday with the main floor of the government, a disqualified deputy president and an accused, among others? Or both, Minister? The annual budget, its preparation by the Government and its parliamentary procedure is something much more serious and necessary than what you seem to understand, despite what you say. It is a powerful economic policy tool that must be used to grow and create jobs, especially in a Spain that is not very large, and it is not a currency of exchange or the object of blackmail so that it can remain at the head of the government the President. And in this context, when Friday we read the agenda for this week's sessions, the 2021 budget appeared. Surprise! Neither in the reference of the Council of Ministers nor in its summary nor in the tables of presentation of the press conference nor in its appearance nor, of course, knowing that they had approved it, did it well to answer it in my question of control, and it refers to the fact that on 11 February the Council had approved the expenditure ceiling for 2021, together with the path of stability for the period 2021-2023. Moreover, in your presentation the path was for 2020-2023; look at what is hanging in the Council's reference. I admit - excuse me - that the first thing I thought was that we had been beaten up - sorry to say so - in 2021, taking advantage of the circumstances favourable to its approval by the pacts signed and yesterday's negotiating table; yes, Minister, yesterday's negotiating table. But no, they had actually approved them on the 11th because the 12th entered the two agreements by registration. Then why? What was to hide? Uncomfortable questions? Two budgets running simultaneously? I don't understand her, and from this, actually, I have experience. Finally, the fact is that the 2020 one brings it late and without telling us what the process will be, and the 2021 one too soon and with the same shortcomings as this year, and for that there was no need. This agreement is in breach of the provisions of the Stability Act. We do not have the Commission's recommendations or the settlement of 2019 or clear explanations of the quantification of the expenditure ceiling or accompanying measures for the achievement of the objectives. Legal certainty. Does the phrase ring a bell? Madam Minister, I heard you yesterday at a press conference after a meeting that, in the end, left us with many Spanish people. The path to 2021 improves the 2020 target by three tenths, spread equally among the Central Administration, the Autonomous Communities and Social Security. The whole period continues in deficit, decreasing at three tenths per year, of which one year corresponds to Social Security, which in 2023 continues to have a deficit of eight tenths of GDP. You have left it in the air if it is reclassification, but, in the end, what presents us mismatches with the promises and intentions of Minister Escrivá. This is not the way, at least for us, ladies and gentlemen. Having balanced accounts allows you to choose, puts you in a better position if you change the cycle and trigger automatic stabilisers and allows you to decrease real public debt, which makes you less vulnerable to possible changes in interest rates. By the way, I would have been less triumphant about our public debt, which is, together with unemployment, one of the most serious criticisms made by the European Commission. I have voluntarily left for the end the reference to the macro scenario that accompanies the agreements. Only three comments.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u16	Mrs. Rodriguez, please go ahead and conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u17	Yeah, I'm finishing up. Growth is rachitic, however much they say it is above the European average and that is what international analysts point out. Something will then have to be done, as, by the way, was done in the previous governments of the People's Party. It is based on the growth of consumption, which in the case of the private sector is badly matched with the announced tax increases and the low job creation, and the increase in public consumption can only bring us structural problems of spending. Exports are overvalued in the global context and, worst of all, you yourselves say that gross fixed capital formation is going to remain gruesome. Does it have anything to do with confidence and indiscriminate statements against anything that involves business activity? Anyway, I'm done. The macroeconomic scenario will be prudent, as you say; it will obey a fiscal adjustment that will have a virtually neutral impact on growth - you also say - and reflects in the last two years the effects of structural reforms - in your own words - that we do not know; we will have to be held accountable. But what is true is that it presents us with a disheartening picture of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what separates us from Europe and why we must work, as the People's Party did, reversing with serious reform the terrible trend that came from the 2009 crisis. The European Commission itself recalled it yesterday and tells them not to touch it. That is why we cannot be in line with the agreements that are before us today for their approval, and that is why and for what I have been telling throughout my presentation. One more thing and I'm done, Madam President. Without being alarmist, we have a black swan walking around the world. The economic consequences today cannot be quantified, but we already have some examples, such as the ERTE that they announced yesterday in Fujitsu. And in the meantime, you, gentlemen of the Government, with fiscal accounts and margins that you claim to approve today on a double basis and to devote yourself to other things, as we saw yesterday, when what you have to do is to worry about the Spaniards, about all the Spaniards, about all the Catalans, not just a few, without populism or demagoguery. It's your responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u19	Thank you, Madam President. A State where the insolence and freedom to do so go unpunished ends up sinking into the abyss; sophocles said. As you can see, I rise to this rostrum dressed in black, black as the future that international organizations wish our economy with you at the front. Madam minister - I confess -, you produce me feelings found. On the one hand, I admire her. We have seen other ministers pass through this House interpreting true scripts, and what scripts!, like Mr Ábalos, who is not here. But you, Minister, are taking the Oscar today. I said it, admiration, though then I think of Andalusia and it's out of my mind. So, as I told you the other day, all we have left to do is assume the burden that the Spanish will bear on the head of the Ministry of Finance. We are gathered here today, ladies and gentlemen, a fundamental issue: the objectives of budgetary stability, the public debt and the ceiling of expenditure, ultimately ensuring the economic viability of the State. We began this legislature with Pedro Sánchez, then president of the government, promising not to compromise with independenceists or to humiliate himself before the coup, not to mention his announcement to send Puigdemont to prison. Well, now Sánchez is subject to Torra's daily demands. Do you remember this genuflexion? What a piece of paper! Then came the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda trying to convince us with one of his six alternative versions about his encounter with Doña Delcy in Barajas; his mantra: if it does not convince them, calmly, I invent another. We hope we do not have to hear that it has been a bad dream, although there are few alternatives left. And when it seemed that all this was insurmountable, you come, Mrs Montero, to present to us objectives of budgetary stability on a scenario of science fiction; inconceivable. They fulfill their obligation, square the accounts and grant mathematics the right to exist. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, welcome to reality. Spain grows, of course, we are a great country that has shown a capacity for recovery as few. However, the deterioration shown by economic indicators since the president appeared on stage is alarming. The reality that we welcome is this: since it is not Sánchez's, GDP has fallen by more than half, we have recorded the worst employment data in one light, private consumption is stagnating and foreign direct investment is falling by 61%. During the expansion phase experienced in Spain, the public sector increased its level of structural spending in an unsustainable way and faced the crisis with expansionary demand policies. Do you remember Plan E? This led to a doubling of the debt-to-GDP ratio in just three years' time and to an increase in 2009 to 11.13 % of the government deficit; yes, gentlemen, 11.13 %. With these imbalances came the recession, the destruction of more than three million jobs, the loss of two hundred thousand companies... We were doing just what our homes told us we shouldn't do, spend what we don't have. Mr Sánchez's government carries the waste as a flag, but he does not hide it: a president with twenty-three ministers, in addition to the corresponding state secretariats, undersecretaries, general secretariats. Gentlemen of the Government, how many secretaries do your secretaries have? I translate: more than EUR 21 million, your government will cost all Spaniards 50 % more than the previous one. In the meantime, EREs registered by labour authorities increase by 22% in 2019. Minister, you come before this House with a self-congratulation speech, accounts that, honestly, are not true, and you don't say VOX, and I explain to you. First, the European Commission did not believe them, which already warned in November of the danger of a significant deviation from the adjustment path, and yesterday, Wednesday, without going any further, sent two clear messages: on the one hand, it dismantled its pension plan and, on the other, it urged the Government to carefully assess the impact of any change in labour reform, which supported a solid job creation, and the International Monetary Fund said; and on the other, it did not even believe its own ministers: ask Mr Escrivá, former President of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, who in October declared that there was little progress in improving the structural deficit, which generated a situation of vulnerability to be addressed. The minister points to a systematic failure, but, of course, that was before he sat on the blue bench. In short, Mrs Montero, you do not believe anyone who has taken the trouble to add and subtract. Complying with the deficit path is certainly the most important macroeconomic objective ahead and budgetary stability, the foundation of sound public accounts. And what I'm telling you is not important because Brussels, as it has repeatedly done, is important because spending above what you enter is a suicide irresponsibility that is then paid. But you don't listen to reasons, you just think about spending, spending and spending; ask the pensioners, who are seeing their retirement compromised, to see what they think. If VOX is born to tell people the truth, a truth that the political elites have hidden from the Spanish for years, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is a lack of respect. [[applause]] A few days ago, in the Treasury Board, one of his partners from Podemos, from the far left, told us that since VOX we have brought recipes for the economy of Hola, a well-known publication. Well, I say to you that those of your Socialcommunist Government are the prescriptions of goodbye: goodbye to employment, goodbye to growth, goodbye ultimately to the well-being of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, stability is the way to guarantee the future of our generation and of those who do not deserve their ruinous inheritance. They confuse cuts with efficient spending, and this concept, linked to fiscal responsibility, implies the proper management and efficient administration of public funds, which is a complex and delicate task. No loyal administrator can think of debt to anyone who trusts his estate, but you don't hesitate to do so. Do you, Mrs Montero, have assurance of civil liability about the consequences of your management? Because, otherwise, we can queue up to receive the troika. With his short-term vision, electoralist and partisan of the economy they want to convince citizens of their policies by promising them paradise - although not fiscal paradise, of course - because our tax system begins to look like hell. You give your ears in an election campaign announcing that you are the closest thing to a Robin Hood made in Spain, taking the money of the rich, to those who fry at taxes, to give it to the most disadvantaged, but what they don't count is that between them they do one thing and forget the other the money stays on the way for Mr. Sánchez and his people to spend it on bars, observatories and other entities without entity or purpose or purpose. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen, let's be serious, apply common sense, because austerity means spending well. Minister, your past is present and it supports you; the EREs of Andalusia are a good presentation letter to trust your accounts, don't you think? Gentlemen of the Government, I have come here to speak plainly. Irresponsible accounts will have consequences, but you don't care, because what matters to you is to keep at all costs and whatever it costs Mr Sánchez in power, whether he ignores Brussels or fails to comply with the Constitution. The Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act is based on the pillars of efficiency in the allocation of public resources and gives absolute priority to the payment of public debt. You guys are obviating this. For all the above reasons, I would like to tell you that this group is going to vote against the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt because it considers them inadequate, irresponsible and harmful to the present and future of the Spaniards by and for whom we work, do not forget. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I warned you that I appear before you in severe mourning for the disastrous economic consequences your proposal has for our nation, and updating the appointment with which I opened my speech, I say to you that as you continue to negotiate with separatists and deal with coups, we bury Spain, although I do not give you any clues. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Cañizares. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u21	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. I would like to divide this intervention by talking first of all about what has to do with the non-financial public expenditure section, and then focus on the revenue side and try to complete the picture of the economic plan that we have before us. Firstly, with regard to the spending policies announced, the Government has already said that the expenditure ceiling for this year 2020 will be around EUR 127.6 billion, an increase of 3.8 over the previous year, i.e. it will grow above the projected nominal increase in gross domestic product. Therefore, after a long, unfair and useless restrictive cycle, we are now opening a new phase of expansive economic policy. Without a doubt, this has scandalized the right, which have put the cry in the sky before what they consider a waste - we have just listened to their lordship of VOX in these terms -, but what the right have not clarified is what social policies they would have decided not to implement. What do we do? We don't raise the pensions, we don't raise the salary to the staff, we don't give the unit? I ask the People's Party directly: What games that directly affect the autonomy you govern would you decide not to prioritize? On the other hand, I recently read that VOX was demanding the granting of a family bonus of 100 euros. They thus inaugurate a kind of social policy chapter. Certainly, this is not in the strictly neoliberal line that some had said. And here allow me a parenthesis, because the other day in a Commission I had to hear a statement from a VOX Member - I don't remember his name, I beg you to excuse me - that it would not be possible to combine fascism and neoliberalism. I don't know very well whether he was defending himself from one term or the other or both. [[Applauds]] Wait, wait, I'm coming with the answer now. In any case, this so-called antinomy is solved with a name and two surnames: Augusto Pinochet Ugarte. Does that ring a bell? A declared fascist as well as Chicago Boys patrons. [[Applauds]] They have to sound like lords of VOX, since, if you remember, the caudillo and the Pinocchio made good crumbs together and this can therefore be an idea. In any case, very soon we will have the debate on the General Budgets of the State and there we will see our faces again. I want to see you out there cutting games to see if you are able to lead us to that 0.5% deficit that Montoro predicted on its 2020 path, instead of the current 1.8%. I want to focus now on the debate on public revenue, the debate on the tax system, which, moreover, seems to me, in the circumstances, much more interesting. Firstly, on Mr Laffer's theses - which in one way or another have been defending the right here in this House - which indicate the desirability of lowering taxes in order to increase tax collection, I should like to warn that one and a thousand moves have been killed in economics faculties around the world. However, the Spanish right-wings are committed to resurrecting these zombie theses in the Chamber of this House completely alien to the academic debate, or perhaps not so much, because when black men landed in Spain to ask for more austerity and higher collection, did Montoro lower taxes? I have a bad memory, but I'd say it was exactly the opposite. In any case, the real scandal that the rightwings have now mounted has had to do primarily with the fiscal reforms that accompany the plan of economic measures agreed in the co-government agreement between the political space that I represent and the Socialist Party. I am convinced that they are returning to the path of fiscal justice; a path that had been lost to this country some time ago and that we gradually began to travel again. With regard to direct taxation, the last tranche of IRPF is slightly increased and corporate tax is harmonised, even reducing the rate applied to SMEs. But the biggest changes have to do with indirect taxation, not just VAT - which, although it will go up for certain products and services, such as tobacco and betting houses, will go down for women's hygiene products and veterinary services; something we have been demanding for a long time - but above all with the creation of new tax figures: the tax on certain digital services and the tax on financial transactions. I agree that it would have been desirable for these new measures to be agreed within the framework of the European Union or the OECD, but after eight years of debate with little progress the time has come to act to increase - yes, increase - the fiscal pressure. However, we have come to hear from the right that we are facing a policy of confiscation - as they have said over and over again; I would say that they have rejoiced in the term - a policy of confiscation that would be typical of dangerous left regimes. Let us stop for a moment in this argument and see that you have made the main references of the left in the government at European level. Indeed, the Italian Central Left Executive has just approved, in December 2019, a 3-point burden on the digital revenues of companies with more than 750 million in revenues and at least 5.5 million euros per year in revenues in the Italian Republic. Of course, if we move on the political scale on which the Spanish right-wings are managed, we can qualify this Italian government as a Marxist-Leninist trend. But let us continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the review of the left-wing governments in our environment. What has the supreme leader of the Berlin Soviet been doing lately, Mrs. Angela Merkel? Well, the fiscal pressure increased to 41.5% on GDP in 2018. It has also acted unilaterally to impose burdens on certain digital services and has now proposed a 0.2% recharging for financial speculators, for trading in high-risk products, with which it intends - you see these reds, these reds - to finance part of a minimum vital income. What a terrible assistanceism! For his part, what has been the global leader of the Fourth Trotskyist International lately, Mr. Emmanuel Macron? Indeed, not only did the tax on financial transactions rise by a tenth above what the well-known Maoist leader, Mr Sarkozy, had already raised, he not only unilaterally imposed a tax on digital services, but also increased the tax pressure to 48.8% in 2018, making France the communist ghost that announced the philosopher in 1848 and that still today raises you by sweating from the bed. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to address the benches on the left which are not in the Government, the compañeras and compañeros of Bildu, the Republican Group, More Country, Compromís; all to a greater or lesser degree gave a vote of confidence to this new formula called coalition government, a formula based on a public agreement that commits both parties and whose backbone is the expansionary and social economic plan, progressive to which today's procedure is part. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya: And socialist]] That is why today the right-wings vote no, no, no, more united and content than ever before, so I ask you precisely to renew the same vote of confidence to this Government to the same extent and no more in which you have already done so just seven weeks ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. After years and years with a PP government that only knew how to send police and judges to Catalonia, yesterday there was a relevant moment in the political conflict with Catalonia: for the first time a Spanish government sat with the Government of Catalonia to talk about how to resolve this political conflict. [[a Member of Parliament: My mother!]] Yesterday, the insistent Catalan demand to establish a negotiating table to resolve this conflict was fulfilled. It is obvious that it will not be easy to reach agreements, but the most important thing today is that we have a Spanish government that, with regard to Catalonia, is fulfilling the commitment that it agreed with Esquerra Republicana and prioritizes the dialogue at batras. There will already be time to see the outcome of this negotiation, whose agreements, in any case, must be ratified by the people of Catalonia through consultation. But the negotiating table that opened yesterday is, together with the ballot boxes, the main democratic tool with which to resolve the political conflict. And the people of Catalonia, for the most part, think what they think, whether they are independent or not, defend that the conflict must be resolved through dialogue and negotiation. Minister Montero, although - as you have commented - your proposal represents a slight improvement over the current objectives, we do not like your spending ceiling or your deficit path, nor do we like you not to be paid more than 400 million euros of VAT that you owe us or so many other things. But in Republican Esquerra we have come to Madrid to resolve a political conflict. You are fulfilling, for now, what we have agreed, and today, with our vote, we give you a margin of confidence so that dialogue and negotiation can move forward. Today we do not discuss its objectives of budgetary stability, but we give the negotiating table an opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u25	Thank you, Madam President. The economic crisis was the perfect alibi for a policy of cutting basic rights through the implementation of austerity policies and repressive legislation; policies that were sold to us as temporary and exceptional, but which remain the norm. Within this normative framework derived from the reformed article 135 of the Spanish Constitution and the Budget Stability Act, the debate on the path of stability and the spending ceiling is presented to us as a necessary procedure for initiating the preparation of budgets, and we are very aware of this in establishing our position. In any case, we do not forget that deficit targets - that is our vision - must be subordinated to employment and to the stimulation of productive activity and not the reverse, so that the rate of deficit reduction set by the EU which has been assumed by this government should be thoroughly revised. If we look at the documents we are debating, we see that the spending ceiling of the last few years in the Spanish State shows a tendency to maintain the pre-eminence of the state in deficit and debt and to eliminate this possibility for the autonomous communities, thus eliminating a basic tool of self-government such as budgetary autonomy. We understand that this is not the way forward, because the policy of stability has not been to control public spending but to cut social spending, which has increased the social gap, aggravated the effects of the economic crisis on the most disadvantaged and has led to unemployment and serious difficulties for the productive economy. And we know that other policies are necessary, that it is not possible to implement policies that want to be progressive by adopting a spending ceiling and deficit targets on this economic paradigm based on the dogma of stability above all. We insist, therefore, that the course must be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u26	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President, and I say President Adrede. I confess I had a vain illusion today, and it was that Delcy's poetic name did not appear among the deficit target prosaics and spending ceiling. Vana illusion, as we have seen; Delcy is always present in this House and will always accompany us. [[Rumors.-Laughter and applause]] Minister, you know that in Compromís we are serious people and we comply with our agreements; we sign the investment agreement and we comply with those agreements. We want to get to the budgets, and we want to get to two things: first, to improve our situation and, secondly, not to have Mr Montoro's budgets again. I think it is logical that we should give these budgets a chance, because it would be pointless to have invested a president and then fail to approve budgets. There are two ideas I would like to express with regard to the budgets. In the distribution of the deficit, as always, the state reserves the best part, when in the autonomous communities more than 30% of social expenditure is managed and, instead, the deficit that leaves us is only 11%. The second idea is that the starting position of the different autonomys is not taken into account, and I ask you to take it into account when making budgets. In other words, it is not the same as a well-funded autonomous community, when it comes to managing its deficit, as a poorly-funded autonomous community, like ours. And on top of that, we need to hear in this House about compliance and non-compliance. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Valencians had the same funding as some, we would be equally or more enthusiastic about meeting the deficit target. We therefore demand that you have the idea of an asymmetric deficit for the autonomous communities that we cannot compete on equal terms and that you remember those temporary mechanisms for those autonomous communities that we start from a different situation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u28	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u29	Thank you, Madam President. In Tuesday's debate a Member of the right-wing bench - today another has said again - said that the accounts have no ideology, that the numbers do not understand ideology. I think exactly the opposite, I think the numbers are precisely concentrated ideology and that whoever says the numbers are neutral is either naive or cynical. Of course the accounts have ideology. So one of the main decisions of a government is not technical, but political. In the words of Maximo Kirchner, it is to decide whether the accounts square with the people inside or to decide whether the accounts square with the people outside; and to square with the people outside is no merit of great managers, it is simply that one has made the political decision that one third of the country is left with it. And that's not managing well, that's not taking care of the country you live in. Today we are debating a law designed to adapt to the reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, a reform made with agst and affluence, agreed by the Socialist Party and the People's Party at the time, to give priority to the payment of the interests of the debt over the interests or needs of the Spanish people; a clear surrender of national sovereignty, before which none of the leaders or the right-wing spokesmen ever said anything. In this case it can be seen that you did not see Spanish national sovereignty threatened; perhaps you should have written that constitutional reform in Catalan and then you would have resorted to it. That modification and its derivative developments were wrong and unfair, typical of a market fanaticism that all he did was dig us deeper in the time of the crisis. Today perhaps we should be discussing the modification of that constitutional reform, but I take care that politics is the kingdom of the meanwhile and every month that we spend with the legacy of Rajoy and Montoro is a lost month for the Spanish and Spanish as a whole, and we do not want to lose a month more. The measures presented today are slightly better than those of the Rajoy-Montoro heritage, but, in our view, they do not allow us to be very optimistic about the possibility of fulfilling part of the commitments made with this Government. There is a deficit reduction path that could be more flexible, given that we are no longer in the excessive deficit protocol, and we could also meet the deficit reduction targets by increasing public revenue. The increase in spending by 2020 makes it possible to close some gaps, but by 2021 it makes it possible to be less optimistic and, therefore, raises doubts about these achievement of objectives. Spain is 4 points below the European average in public revenue, 7 points below the ratio of public expenditure to gross domestic product and we have a growth forecast of 1.6%. What does this mean? This means that clearly there is room for a fiscal, modern and progressive policy for a responsible State that is also a driving force for ecological transition and economic growth. These two objectives, the reduction of the gap in inequality that breaks Spain and the undertaking of an ecological transition that modernises the economy, have as a sine qua non a determined, determined, courageous and modern fiscal policy. I know that you, Minister, know; it is more, I have the feeling that you share it. I take care that they are going to find themselves - they will be finding them already - with important resistance within our country and outside our country, but believe me if I tell you that the footprint that this Government leaves behind will not depend on how much the right-wing are angry, but on how determined it is in social transformation, in ecological transformation in our country. We, from More Country, will vote in favour to get out of the cycle of Rajoy and Montoro, but we ask for more determination in the General Budgets of the State. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u31	Thank you, President. Ministers, ministers, I'll start with some preliminaries. First, you bring these deficit objectives here without having agreed, at least previously, with our group; second, our position today does not presuppose at all the vote or vote on the General Budgets of the State; third, our vote today we understand that it should be disconnected from the future of the dialogue table, because, if not, someone might think that in order for the dialogue table to continue they must vote all in favour, which would be a mistake and which we are not going to assume, and you must know that. Beyond that, Minister, I will give you some consideration. You can't go up to the rostrum and say that the great effort in deficit targets is done by the central administration, because you pose the numbers one way and I'm going to pose them another way. What you are responsible for, what you must bring the budgets here, is central administration and social security. And from the central administration and social security you consume, of the entire deficit target, almost 89 % and give gracefully to the autonomous communities 11 % and tell them that you do not have to make a great effort. One, when you look at the perspective of effort in deficit reduction, what do you appreciate? Since the autonomous communities, which had been consuming around 40% of the Spanish state deficit since 2011, will now be consuming 11% and, instead, of their responsibility, Social Security and Central Administration, they were consuming a percentage that did not reach 60% of the deficit targets, and are currently going to consume 90%. Therefore, do not say that you and your budgets make a great effort, because this is not so. To say that 0.2 is a concession to the Autonomous Communities and that it will be possible to carry out social policies, that is not to say the truth, Minister, because the Autonomous Communities would have much more to do with it, at least what the Secretary of Economics of the Generalitat of Catalonia said a few days ago, at least 0.3%. 0,2 % is therefore no concession, Minister. To say, as you said, that 0,2 % was a measure to compensate for the VAT issue of 2017, which has not ended up paying in 2019, I think it is also a mistake that we cannot share and that we must not assume. Fortunately, yesterday in the Senate, with the vote of some parliamentary groups who are also represented in this House, a motion by Junts per Catalunya was voted in which the government was urged to make this VAT effective. I am sure that this is going to be the case and in the forthcoming budgets you will respect the will of the Senate and the General Courts, because, if in the forthcoming budgets you do not include these 443 million for Catalonia, 25 billion for all the autonomous communities, I do not think that anyone dares to approve the budgets. Of course, we are not going to approve the budgets they bring us at that time. So don't tell us what's good for Catalonia. We already know what's good for Catalonia. What would be good for Catalonia, Minister, is that we would have been paid EUR 443 million. That would be good for Catalonia, and we would not be discussing a tenth or two tenths of the deficit. In any case, Minister, if you want the votes of Junts per Catalunya for anything, you know that you have to negotiate it, negotiate it beforehand or at the same time, but in exchange for nothing you will not be able to have our votes. We are therefore not voting in favour of the Government's proposal today. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De Quinto Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Montero, two things. First, we're going to say no, but don't manipulate or blackmail, because we don't say no to pensions or any of that line of things you've commented on: we say no to endorse your investment debts, to that we do say no. Secondly, do not accuse us of not being democratic because we do not want to do what you want, because so democratic is that you present here this entrepreneurial ceiling of expenditure as democratic is that we reject it. Or is it just democratic to follow the game to you? One of the unfortunate peculiarities of our economy is the unorthodox level of debt we suffer. Debt is usually the reflection of a great selfishness, as well as of a great failure. Selfishness, because it means enjoying money that you don't have, leaving the bill to our children; that's what I call a'simp' generational. Debt is also a failure, because it reflects the incompetence of those who managed our economy and who, in times of crisis, rather than undertaking the necessary reforms, preferred not to complicate their lives and leave everything the same, resorting to the aided recourse to be indebted to wait for better times to come. Indebtedness in itself is not a bad thing, as long as the objective is investment, an investment aimed at improving our competitiveness and rationalizing our costs. But when you are in debt simply to maintain or even increase a life train that under certain circumstances you can no longer maintain, the situation becomes dangerously unsustainable. I'll explain. Imagine for a moment, ladies and gentlemen of the ERE bench, that they had a company with which to generate employment and wealth - I hope it is not too difficult for them - and that because of the crisis they were going through a bump that would prevent them from carrying the train of life that you were carrying until then. In this case, borrowing to invest in your company, in order to renew equipment or processes in the hope of improving competitiveness and thus regaining that standard of living, can make quite sense. However, cross hands and let the company sink while you are in debt, simply to be able to continue living at the same rate of expense as when your company was winding up, it is not only suicidal, but it will have a short journey, believe me. In the first case, even if things didn't work out for them, at least their children would be left not only the debt to pay, but also a bad company but with renovated equipment. In the second scenario, your children would only have the debt to pay and perhaps a picture of you lying in the sun with a glass of Emeritus. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we have great discrepancies with you in terms of deficit, debt and budgets. For us, debt reduction should be, together with the fight against unemployment, our country's priority objective. However, it seems that the main priority for you is to pay your particular investment invoices that are required by the nationalists of the frac and that force you to increase spending inextricably. You make budgets like this: first, you determine the amount of spending you need to buy your support and then you look for imaginative tax ways to take on the money of families and businesses and thus meet your commitments to third parties. Its formula to reduce the debt - which, by the way, never works for them - is always the same: to increase the expenditure with which they lubricate their clientelism and to raise even more if they can the taxes; to the rich, they say, but always end up being all the Spaniards who pay them their party. In their accounts the expenditure they propose is always that or higher. However, you never get the income you estimate, because the nominal increases in the tax rates you happily decide never consider the regressive effect on the country's economic activity. Why? It is simple, because detracting disposable income from the citizens' pockets causes consumption to fall and this has a negative impact on our businesses. If we hurt these companies even more by beating them with new taxes, we will definitely point to their competitiveness. Both things combined, a lower consumption of individuals along with a lower competitiveness of our companies, are the best cocktail for unemployment and for economic disaster. Our model is radically different. We are committed to reducing spending by rationalizing it and not raising or even lowering taxes, allowing it to grow organically as a result of economic momentum. To all this we must add our commitment to a more effective fight against fraud so that those who do not pay will pay. That's the important thing, pay those who don't pay, and don't make those who already pay pay more or make those who already pay more pay a lot more. What I'm telling you is not science fiction. If the ideological blindfold that prevents them from seeing were removed for a moment, they would see the prosperity that is being generated, for example, in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, where we govern with the People's Party. Returning to the scenario before us, we note with concern that its intention is not really to lower the debt in absolute terms, but only in relative terms as a percentage of GDP. I would encourage them to roll around and work in depth to re-evaluate all spending items. Ask the AIReF to give them a hand, but above all do not throw your hand over the AIReF; leave it as it is, keeping it as the independent organism that has been so far. I know that cutting expenses is not a comfortable task, it takes effort and much detail, but surely the citizenry will thank you. Therefore, do not go easy, please do not give up the entire current expenditure structure by adding to it its new whims and commitments. Unfortunately, I believe that what you are trying to do is just spend more, which is logical because now your new partners are more mouths than food; mouths than feed the taxes of people who work hard in jobs that no one has given them for their pretty face or for their card of good socialist. What you call income redistribution is simply a nice name to dress the appropriation of the money of families and businesses - I remind you that 90% of them are SMEs or micro-enterprises - to share it with your friends and family through chiringuitos like those to which Mr Errejón referred in his famous video or through the creation of positions of various advisors, sometimes for people without studies or experience, but, yes, with cards of his own. Because we have already seen his model of redistribution of income, we have seen him in Móstoles, where the mayor of his party, that of the EREs, was reprobated by all the parties of the city council for seven verified cases of nepotism; we have seen him in the EREs of Andalusia, where people with the'socialist' card very cleverly paid compensation for dismissal in companies in which he had never worked; and we are also seeing him here with the disorbited number of ministries and high offices that are not due to reasons of effectiveness and efficiency, but to the need to make room and give a salary, of course, to all those who demanded to touch power, albeit a little, in exchange for their vote in the investiture. Spain has had too many years of drought of reforms and if we do not commit them, if everything remains the same, we will have no money at all. Grants or aid are not financed from the air, no, they come out of the pockets of families and companies that jointly pay taxes to help others get out of the pot. But to help get out of a patch is not to contribute to making the patch a destination, it is not to contribute to making the grant and the aid a way of life, the patches are never solutions and what you cannot do is that your desire chronifies the subsidies and the aids by turning them into part of the problem rather than a bridge to their solution. Spain needs less spending and more reforms; in this space you will always find us at its side. If, on the contrary, what you intend to do is to reverse the reforms and increase spending, you will find yourself face-to-face with our parliamentary group, less numerous than your own, yes, but far more comprehensive. For this reason, and bearing in mind that the objectives presented for adoption today involve an increase in spending more than twice as much as GDP expects, an increase in the deficit which will be due tomorrow, a renunciation of budgetary stability until 2024 and a slowdown in the rate of employment growth, my group will vote against its approval. Gentlemen of this new PSOE, once again we're going to reach out to you. Don't accuse us of blocking, look towards the center, break up with your partners, and let's work together on a spending ceiling and serious, sensible budgets that are not mortgaged on populism or nationalism. Think about it, please, not only Brussels will thank you, but also all the Spanish, populists and nationalists included, even if they will never recognize it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u34	Thank you, Mr. De Quinto. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u35	Thank you, President. Egun on, good morning. Today, for its approval, we are discussing the Government's proposal to set the budgetary stability and public debt targets for all administrations and we are also being informed of the ceiling for spending within the fiscal consolidation path in the framework of European supervision, a fiscal consolidation with which this group has certainly been very critical. On the one hand, not only as regards the methodology relating to the application of tax rules, but also because we have always argued that this consolidation should have been carried out in another way, a more paused reduction and more in line with the pace of economic growth, so that it would have affected people's lives to a lesser extent by maintaining social policies in order to avoid higher levels of inequality, and I believe that this is also the aim of this proposal. This fiscal consolidation must of course take account of the territorial reality, the economic reality and also the fiscal reality in establishing the deficit and debt targets and specifically in the case of the outlying communities, which have a forecast of greater economic growth than that of the State, 1.9% compared to 1.6%, and which, in addition, has fiscal autonomy that allows them to take decisions on expenditure financed by tax increases that they regulate, and in the case of the outlying territories this path must also be agreed and negotiated in the Joint Committee on Concertation in this bilateral relationship between the State and the Basque Government, which will take place in March and which, therefore, today is not being debated in this Chamber. On 11 February, they published the macroeconomic table, which forecasts growth of 1.6% by 2020, in line with the forecasts of the main European bodies. It is a fact that it remains positive, taking into account the European and global environment, where modest growth is expected; a growth that does, subject to vulnerabilities in an uncertain geopolitical and geo-economic context: trade tensions, perhaps the threat of coronavirus, important technological changes with an older population and here, in Spain, with low productivity and which, in addition, has to address the imbalances in public accounts. The macroeconomic picture foresees a smoother, more flexible public deficit path for this and the next three years, and, of course, more realistic, because we must not forget, as the minister has said, that the objectives approved for 2018 are still in force, objectives that are far from reality and therefore unattainable. It's time to update them. Public accounts, as I said, still maintain imbalances: debt and high structural deficit, incomes below the average and significant social spending to face. It seems that in order to adjust the gap between income and expenditure, they will therefore resort to this part of the planned growth, to the flexibility of the deficit, to the creation of new taxes and to the reformulation of existing ones in order to obtain sufficient income to enable the maintenance of expenditure and social cohesion or, even, to increase that expenditure necessary to meet these new economic objectives and lines of action and all this, we understand, without undermining economic activity or putting economic growth at risk. In our view, this is what emerges from that macroeconomic picture that we have been presented with today. This table reflects more flexible objectives, also in line with our main criticisms of the European Union's consolidation path of accompanying deficit reduction with growth, but which remain symmetrical objectives, which do not meet an economic criterion and do not take into account the fiscal position of each autonomous community. This implies that some administrations will be able to comply with them loosely, while others will hardly be able to do so. The AIReF and its new president also talk about establishing differentiated objectives and the need for the involvement of the autonomous communities both in the process of distributing the objectives and in their elaboration. A number of other parliamentary groups have also requested this today. Although they make the objective of stability more flexible and therefore grant more oxygen to administrations to implement policies that affect people's well-being, we must not forget that the autonomous communities and local entities are limited, as you have said, by the spending rule. Frankly, in the macro table we do not see a significant variation in the rate of reference to the expenditure rule, only a tenth greater margin in the approval of the destination of its surplus, which has been granted basically to compensate for the losses caused by the VAT system's change, which seems to us to be somewhat unfair, because the current situation, once the deficit and debt targets have been met by the public administrations, the savings, the surplus that is generated or has been generated, should be able to devote itself to meeting those needs of the citizenry, to improving public services and to actions that generate quality and wealth employment and, in particular, to those aimed at combating climate change in order to strengthen the European Green Pact. Survivors of local entities and self-governing communities should not have diminished their decision-making capacity nor should they be placed under any supervision by higher levels. Today, and also in his appearance the other day, he has told us that this rule of spending is going to change, as we have been claiming some groups in this House. This flexibility is true that as soon as it can reach the end of the year and we understand that it will have its reflection and impact in 2021, so it is necessary at least, as you have already said, that in the short term the modification of the system established for financially sustainable investments is addressed, in order to make them less restrictive. In other words, extend the narrow margin of sustainable financial investment with much more flexible conditions and perhaps with a longer period of time to be able to carry them out. In the macro table we also note that the public debt target is to be set at 93.4 in 2021, a debt that in 2019, despite being reduced, remains at 95.5%; it remains high and, of course, poses a risk to the sustainability of public finances and commits future generations, so we believe that it is necessary to continue to strive to reduce it and not to fall into self-congratulation, because limiting debt is an investment in the future, because it improves the possibilities of responding to complicated situations. On the other hand, and in order to achieve balance of accounts, it proposes the modification of existing taxes and the creation of new tax figures. In this sense, the modification of existing ones without yet knowing the concrete - if they go in line with what they have been announcing - seems quite aligned with those existing in the outlying communities and we will collaborate in as many debates and decisions of tax reform occur, but always from the basic principle of strict respect for our fiscal self-government and our normative capacity. In the case of new taxes, such as digital and financial transactions, and, despite the fact that we have always advocated their harmonisation at European level, as soon as it has already been approved in the Council of Ministers, we will ask you to apply the second paragraph of additional provision of the Economic Agreement, which provides that, in the event that new tax figures are created, the two administrations - the state and the foral - will proceed jointly in agreement with their adaptation to the concert, so they will have to start the work necessary for their concertation, in which they will have to agree not only the normative capacity, but also the sanctioning and inspecting competence of the taxes and the establishment of the points of connection, which we believe should be broad for the outside administrations. Without taxes there is no social state. Any reform of the tax system should be comprehensive and progressive, operating in the long term and having as a priority both the stimulation of economic activity, avoiding any distorting effects on growth, and the adequacy of income to maintain expenditure and social cohesion. The reduction of taxes does not directly increase growth and, of course, a social welfare state with less income cannot be maintained. With regard to the expenditure ceiling, it was higher because the agreed deficit was higher than previously envisaged and because it implied such tax reform. A higher level of income will, of course, allow for higher expenditure, provided that the objective of stability is met, which implies that a very accurate estimate is needed in the collection not only through taxes, but also through the control of tax fraud. Despite the fact that revenue has been raised by around 4.1% this year in the fight against fraud, it would be necessary to improve these figures as the economy grew by around 2% and the level of the state's submerged economy remains too high. However, it must be said that this debate on the spending ceiling is a macro debate, with no more data than those of the macro table and the deficit and debt targets distributed by institutional levels and, therefore, speculative, if it does not materialise in concrete policies that reverse the improvement of the lives of citizens. It is of no use if this is not achieved through, as I said, budgetary policy. This is where we will see the priorities and bets of this coalition government. In our view, fiscal consolidation is not constrained by new actions involving an expansive policy, but in order to be able to address it, as I have said, it will be necessary to review the tax system, to control the effectiveness and efficiency of the public policies implemented and to control the fight against tax fraud; the latter issue is of utmost importance not only from the perspective of public revenue and the collection capacity of the system itself, but also from the legitimacy of the public sector to demand tax payments from taxpayers. I also firmly believe that society is ready for a greater fiscal effort, provided that it has an impact on policies aimed at greater sustainable and inclusive development. We are aware of the limitations of European governance, of the uncertain geopolitical and geo-economic context at global level and of risks and, of course, also of the internal political tensions of the State. We therefore believe that economic and political stability is necessary in order to achieve sustainable growth with people's origin and destiny, leading to inclusive development and overcoming these imbalances in public accounts. You have the best tool to achieve this, budgetary policy, and today you can take a step forward in this regard. Our group will vote in favour because we understand that the objectives set are, of course, much better in line with the current situation and because we value that in a climate of bilaterality and institutional respect we will be able to have the opportunity to come up with positions to ensure that the rules are applied in accordance with our own social and economic reality and that the balance between public accounts and more equitable economic growth can be achieved. As you and your Government have been demonstrating, there are no majorities and therefore there is a need for dialogue and we are reaching out to you in this regard. Dialogue is based on mutual recognition, the capacity to argue, the capacity to resign and the commitment to accept and behave in accordance with agreements. As I said, today we are at the forefront of the draft General State Budgets and I would also like to make it clear that voting in favour of this path does not mean giving this group a blank cheque for the approval of the draft General State Budgets, if it is finally presented. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned in this rostrum that this debate is one of the important ones in any political course. It is probably, together with budgets, the two debates of an economic nature that mark the future of the policies that will be applied to the citizens of the Spanish State. That is true, and it is no less true that this is an annual quote derived from the economic policies that the European Union has decided to create to deal with or, rather, to accompany the economic crisis that began in 2007. And you have to be honest. It must be said that this measure is but one important but necessary measure and one more of the architecture of a Europe that is increasingly neoliberal, which is increasingly based on a policy of containing expenditure by cutting rights for the population. The convergence criteria, the famous Maastricht criteria, were discussed earlier in 1992 when it was said that there was a need to set limits to the deficit and to public aid. Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution was subsequently amended, which is untouchable, but easy and quick to touch and modify when European markets and European institutions demand it. It is now done through the laws of budgetary stability, and we must be honest. It is difficult to make budgets of a social nature if we mean those that the Left has always defended as budgets based on greater social and effective protection, inclined to eradicate inequality and to seek more participatory and participatory societies with these criteria. This is the reality and, probably, if we do not recognise our drama, if we do not recognise our problem and our problem is given by European rules that oblige us to these things, it is difficult for us to solve it. Perhaps so we understand better what happened to the Greeks, to Syriza's companions and companions, when they saw the men in black and their action. That is the framework in which we operate. To say this does not mean that we have to keep our arms crossed or that we have to put ourselves in an absolutely belligerent position, but we have to understand that in order to change all this we have to be aware of the point from which we start and it is nothing flattering, as I said, because as long as public spending is below the rate of growth and even if there are increases in collection, if these do not apply to reverse cuts and increase rights, we will be subject to unfair economic laws. It is also true, all that I have pointed out, that what is presented to us today represents improvements regarding what we have been suffering since 2017 by virtue or grace of the former minister, Mr Montoro. It is true that the possibility of spending is increased and it is true - at least it is pointed out - that there may be more flexibility in the application of the spending rule, but we continue to point out issues that we have already pointed out in this rostrum on other occasions, which still lacks more bilaterality, which still lacks a construction higher than above, and surely in that we can coincide many and many, regardless of the political colour that determines an autonomous community. We want for our Autonomous Community or for the Basque Autonomous Community and for the Foral Community of Navarre more capacity for intervention and decision by the leaders of these communities, whether or not they are of the same political colour as our own, but also and, above all, there is coffee for all. Coffee is left for everyone because we don't all start from the same reality and it's not reasonable for everyone to apply the same recipe to us because we don't all have the same symptoms and weaknesses. We are being condemned to downward uniformity when that is done, and it is therefore important that we start talking about flexibility and change. We are a force born of municipalism, which makes municipalism its main element to root and to become strong and we are very sensitive to what the municipalities tell us. The municipalities tell us, at least the Basque municipalities and the municipalities of the Foral Community of Navarra, on many occasions that they have resources, that they have surplus, that they have control of the real and effective debt and that, however, they are prevented from spending. This is where we place the accent, because we find it totally incomprehensible that the administrations that have investment capacity, that have their accounts healthy and surplus, especially the municipalities, are limited by the rule of spending, without the ability to invest in public and social policies for the benefit of their citizens. It is a complete anomaly that having the capacity to do so prevents them from providing essential services to their neighbours and neighbours. We believe that we must stop drowning municipalities, protecting them; we must change that dynamic for greater flexibility for the benefit of all citizens. That is what we have been demanding and that is what we thought - time will have to know whether or not we were wrong, because the intervention of the Socialist Group remains - to have agreed with the representatives of the Socialist Party, that it should be expressed and clear in the need to increase flexibility so that municipalities with surplus and controlled debt can have more resources to invest in their citizens; that this should be done by making it possible to explore the margins, within the limits of expenditure imposed, with greater flexibility in the rule of expenditure, and that all this could be done now. That's what we thought we agreed, that there's no need to make literature that proposes to address study commissions that ask what years, if 2021, 2022 or 2023 do things, but we can start doing it now. As I say, there is one intervention left and we would like to be able to hear that in order to know whether we have been wrong or whether, on the contrary, the wrong ones are others, because we like to have a word and hold it. But, as I said, that has been our priority, because we have always understood that in order to end inequality, to guarantee well-being, to respect social needs there is nothing better than the municipalities, because we probably agree - today is Thursday and this is probably the only thing we can agree on practically all the members of this House, and to see - that the municipalities, because of their proximity, are the ones who best know the problems of the citizens and who make up themselves at the first door or at the first window of the citizens when they have a problem. [[rumors]] For if this is so, and this is so already initialled with a famous quote from Mr Rajoy - the one that said: it is the neighbors who choose the mayor, and who continue in a way that I would not be able to continue -, if in this we all agree, what we propose is that this becomes effective and becomes real, and that we give power to the municipalities in order to be able to respond to the needs. I end with a conclusion. We do not like the economic policies emanating from the European Union, this European Union of a marked neo-liberal character and colour, but we do believe that different things can be done, and we ask this Government, the forces that make up this Government, to do different things within the margins, and those margins have to do with exploring the limits of them with the flexibility I have been talking about or with the increase in taxes. I know some people don't like this, talking about tax increases, tax increases. We and we have no problem talking about the tax hike, we feel good that taxes are going up, and we believe that most people don't feel bad about paying more taxes if they don't steal more wages, because the difficulty here is given that citizens can be emptied of their pockets in two ways: one, with taxes and bearing low wages, and the other, by condemning them to increasingly miserable wages. That option is the one that usually takes the right and the one that usually takes some figures from the right. They can take it in Euskal Herria or anywhere in the Spanish state, they can take it in a company, call themselves fair, or they can take it, as the'spartan' and 'Coca-Cola' workers in the Coca-Cola themselves reminded us. Besterik ez, milesker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mrs Vehí Cantenys.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u39	Thank you, President. In two minutes it is impossible to address this issue. We agree with the minister that it is no longer a debate, and we also agree with what the spokesman for Bildu said, which is part of the economic architecture of the European Union, a path of stability, public debt, article 135 of the Constitution and even amendment of the Montoro law. For us and for our municipalities to change the Montoro law is good news, but we are going to vote no to this proposal because we are making an amendment to the entire debt policy. We speak from a country that is the most indebted areas of the Spanish state, and since 2008 the public debt has not stopped growing, 2008, year of the crisis, because, yes, the debt and snowball of increasing debt is linked to the crisis. There are also the autonomous liquidity funds, the debt of the autonomous communities, to pay more debt, and that has to do again with the European Union, with Article 135 of the Constitution and with the adjustment plans, because nothing is free, Minister: years and years of debt and mortgage for future generations. And that already means, right now, the Catalan countries, schools in barracks and hospitals without resources. You were talking about the defense of the middle and popular classes, do you know what the difference is between our sense of vote and that of the right-wing bench? That they don't take their children to public schools, we do; that they don't go to public hospitals, we do. [[rumors]] [[rumors]] Redistribution of resources from down to up, from our neighborhoods to the European Central Bank. Casino economy, where the bank always wins. And between the discourse of the fatality of paying the debt as if it were a meteorological phenomenon or the discourse of some organizations that suggest that no debt has to be paid, we understand that it is rather more complex. Just as it is much more complex, and allow me, for the time I have left, to do a pirouette, the political framework that you establish between a government that seems to present us with the most social budgets of history and the only economic policy that can save us and a right that seeks to blacken the Spanish state. It's a lot more complex, there's a lot more nuances. It is the same in the debt debate. For us it is imperative that they do an audit of the debt. Let's talk about sovereignty, as it was done in Greece and as it was done in Ecuador, although then the Greeks had to endure the troika going beyond their rights. I'm done, President. For us the independence project is above all sovereignty, that people also decide on debt.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Vehi. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas-Gonzalez Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u41	Thank you, Madam President. You don't know what I'm happy to say, Madam President. Which cost us so many women, and especially those before us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting from a reality. This country cannot continue to extend its budgets. Spain cannot continue to operate with accounts approved three years ago. We can't live in 2020 as if we're still in 2018. Madam, Minister, as always, I will be very clear and direct. Do we like this spending roof? No, no, Are we concerned about the expenditure limit, and more so in the current context of declining incomes and slowing down the economy? Yeah, and a lot. Are we indignant about punishing those who have been responsible for stability goals, and not being allowed to use their own money? Yeah. Since 2007, the Canary Islands has had a surplus, like the local corporations - other partners have said - that keep deposits in the banks for which they are also asked to pay commissions, while the Ministry of Finance does not give them an effective response. A new budget is needed and it complies with the Canary Islands, with its economic and fiscal regime and with its statute of autonomy. And that is why, Minister, we will sit down and work from the Canary Coalition to adopt a fair budget for my islands and to face the challenges of this country. Allow me, President, to say one thing. I'm one of the few deputies who was here eleven years ago. Less PSOE and PP pen. I have lived here that a socialist government had to freeze pensions and lower the salaries of officials, and I supported it, because this country had to be saved. And I lived when a People's Party attacked that, promised to lower taxes, and when it arrived, because of the economic situation in this country, I made the wildest tax hike this country has had, because this country needed it. Less ideology, less PSOE and PP pen. Budgets, the spending ceiling, are the first step for this country to have budgets that officials need. Less ideology and more thinking about this country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. New Canary Islands is going to vote in favour of the deficit objectives - I am sorry, gentlemen - and of debt as well as the path of stability, because there is a weighty reason before entering any other consideration: if not, it is not possible to formulate a budget, and it is not possible to continue without budgets. [[rumors]] This harms everyone and those who are against it will already be able to explain how it is done to improve the lives of people without budgets. Secondly, there is a measure that is fine, which is to increase the possibility of an increase in the deficit of the autonomous communities by 0.2, which is an explicit recognition of the enormous responsibilities that the communities have in particular to pay attention to public services, but there is a problem that has already been discussed here and that I have to stress again. The other day at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, the Finance Councillor of the Government of the Canary Islands raised - and the Minister accepted it - the need to establish a commission to make the rule of spending more flexible in those communities and corporations that meet their specific objectives, and that however are penalized because they do not affect point 2 nor do they affect anything. What there is is a lot of money in the banks and a lot of needs in the street. We are confident that this committee will be launched immediately. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. I now have the floor for the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, you said that the flexibility of the deficit target responds to a change of priorities in the government, and what it actually responds to is a government that has no priorities and that, as it has no priorities, directly increases spending so that it does not have to choose. Spain is continually failing to meet the deficit target. In 2017 we set ourselves the target of 0.5 for this year, but you in 2019 passed it to 1.1, and now we are nothing less than 1.8. That's what it means to cheat on the loner. Because I agree with what Mr Errejón said about the fact that obviously economic policy does have ideology, and there are two models: yours, which is that of having a hyperbolic state with mastodontic structures frying citizens to taxes to control people's lives through public administration, or ours, which is that of having a healthy economy that encourages economic growth from the freedom of people to be able to do their vital project. Obviously, they are two different models. On the other hand, as Mr De Quinto said, to vote that no to this budgetary stability does not mean that it is against pensions or gender-based violence. No, Minister, it's not that. It means being against a mastodontic structure of government that you have created to spread out armchairs by the investment pact, it means being against frying people and businesses to taxes, which of course is fraught with economic growth, and it also means taking into account that the Administration needs to lose weight, and that if we continually increase the deficit what we are doing is increasing without stopping the public debt, and this country needs to start already decreasing in the public debt. Ladies and gentlemen, when we generate deficits we have only two possibilities in Spain today: either we raise taxes or we create debt, because issuing money is done by the European Central Bank. So we have those two possibilities. As we are against indiscriminate tax increases and we are also against the generation of constant public debt, we obviously have to oppose the easing of deficit targets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u47	Good morning and thank you very much, Madam President. We are going to vote in favour for two main reasons. The first, because they seem to us to be reasonable objectives that respond to a realistic scenario and in line with previous years. And the second, because Spain actually needs this budget, but Cantabria also, because the budget of the autonomous community, approved as always in time, is contemplating items that have an intrinsic relation with the state budget. That is why we want it to be approved and we hope that the parties' commitments to our party and the Cantabria Government will be reflected. I would like to stress the issue of VAT in 2017. We do not consider this 0,2 % deficit to be a compensation. The distribution of deficits is very relative and everything depends on how they are handled, and in this sense we are not going to enter. I told you one thing the other day, which I repeat today: you always quote the deficit, but you don't talk about the debt at all, and fixing it is very simple. If you put a line in which the autonomous communities receive an income, as a result we will reduce the deficit. At the same time the state will have more debt and the autonomous communities less, but it is only a pocket change. In the European Union we will be measured globally, but it is about putting things in place. In addition, as you said the other day, spending is already done and will therefore not affect higher spending, because it is a closed exercise. The solution is very simple and I think that you would be very good with the Autonomous Communities and we would continue to respect all the objectives with Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mazón. Finally, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Finance, to perpetrate this ceiling of spending, the Executive head of Pedro Sánchez recovers the harmful model and harmful recipes of another government also presided over by the Socialist Party, that of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, whose passage through the Moncloa left the economy of Spain made a calamity, with brutal impoverishment of society and a colossal damage to the labor market. From such a seism we were still recovering when you unexpectedly appeared on the scene, following the motion of censure of May 2018. And whoever follows the same path, Mrs. Montero, reaches the same destination. A month ago, EPA data reflected an alarming decline in employment, and with the new coalition macro-government we are heading towards the fiscal asphyxiation of the Spaniards, the unequal treatment between autonomous communities, the Spanish first and second, the galloping deficit, as well as again the black hole in the economy that we have dragged since 2011, converted, after that infamous stage, into a gigantic public debt that wastes economic growth, job creation, social tension and pensions. I will vote against the return to the lethal model of the worst years, aggravated today by the insatiable demands of the investment partners that even put the social security management unit at risk. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to waste, there are many reforms to be undertaken, many investments to be promoted, there are many challenges to act on: digital transformation, the fight against climate change, the demographic challenge, ending precariousness, inequality, gender-based violence or tackling global threats. And to meet these great challenges, the coalition government chaired by Pedro Sánchez has an economic and social agenda that includes investment agreements, and that will materialize in the different budgets. Budgets must be drawn up within a clear, realistic framework of budgetary stability, in which to generate certainty in the coming years and to be able to undertake the major reforms that this country needs. And that is the framework that the Government is putting before us today: a path of feasible stability with which to move forward in the consolidation of public accounts, but without giving up growing, without giving up generating employment, combating inequalities and advancing the social and territorial cohesion of our country. We cannot be anchored in the past, and the current stability objectives are past, they are lapsed, as are the budgets in force, which should be remembered that they have already been extended on two occasions, with no Government until January because of the institutional blockade; a clearly exceptional situation in all respects. There are some shaky existing budgets, drawn up by Mr Montoro, which already failed to meet the budgetary stability objectives and which did not even respect the expenditure ceiling, as Minister Montero has very well explained. It included, by amendments, unfunded promises that precisely Minister Montero has had to go through with, despite all the obstacles and all the difficulties that they have put on the right-wing bench. [[Applauds]] Social commitments, such as the increase in pensions from 0.5 to 1.6 %, had to be made possible by providing the budget of EUR 1334 million which was not covered. The only interest of the Government has been and is to solve the real problems of this country and continue to advance in social rights, a social interest which the right wing lacks for its continuing criticism of the socialist Government. It is clear that the right always confuses social necessity with electoralism. Today we have heard them: they confuse the meeting with a political and social commitment. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to move on; we must update the budgetary targets for Spain as soon as possible, with clear margins for action, and thus create a real scenario for real policies that respond to people, such as the one offered by the Government today: a scenario in which we can act by giving clear signs of stability and security to citizens, investors and international bodies in the next timeframe. A framework that will allow us to take the first step in the preparation and presentation of the new budgets. The mayors and mayors, presidents and presidents of the autonomous communities of all political signs cannot wait any longer; neither the people who are unemployed, nor the pensioners, nor the self-employed, nor even the entrepreneur; everyone wants stability and everyone wants to move forward. But, as we have heard, the right that we have now represented in Congress seems to be unclear. They do not share objectives that are endorsed by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the National Commission of Local Government. They intend to prevent the adoption of objectives that are reasonable and credible, which respond to a commitment to stability throughout the economic cycle, without hindering the Spanish economy's capacity for growth and job creation. It is very positive, ladies and gentlemen, the explicit and express commitment that the Minister of Finance has made to us today, a definitive commitment, firm with the municipalities, especially on two issues: the flexibility of the criterion of application of the expenditure rule, and second, greater and better application of the surplus to invest it and to benefit citizens, as Mr Matute pointed out; commitments to which we have committed ourselves with the EH Bildu Group. And targets also for the autonomous communities that will allow them an additional spending margin of more than EUR 2 billion. And also a commitment that was explicit in the Committee on Finance, in keeping with local and autonomous funding, with which the Socialists, and especially the Socialists of Valencia, are very hopeful. [[Applauds]] So it is clear that those who vote against it will be more installed in destroying than in building; for more than arguments against this path of stability, rather than solid arguments, the only thing we have heard have been reproaches and even some insult or disqualification of those to whom the ballot boxes have sent to political irrelevance, and therefore do not require an answer to the insults that I would like them to withdraw. But there are also some who intend to give good management lessons, when, for example, it is known to all that it is clear that the cuts practiced in the past by the People's Party not only extended the crisis, they did not get the clean-up of public accounts, but instead generated a lot of suffering for many people, cuts of 10 billion euros in Health and Education, in Social Security they were the ones who emptied the pension fund and achieved a higher deficit level in 2016, motivated by a drop in income in contributions resulting from their labor reform that facilitated wage devaluation. A devaluation that has begun to correct with the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, but a field of action in which much remains to be done, because we cannot continue with a labour market with an unbearable job insecurity that also reflects in the social security accounts. [[Applauds]] But it is also the government of the People's Party that increased public debt by 28 percentage points, do not forget that the only central government that had surplus for several years in a row was the socialist government, which they so much want to denounce, and if they do not look at Eurostat's statistics. It is true that Spain entered an excessive deficit procedure as a result of an international crisis, but just like twenty other European countries. And despite so much austerity practiced by the People's Party government, he was unable to get out of that corrective procedure, remaining as a backward student in Europe. And it was precisely with the socialist government that we managed to get out. As Minister Montero says, in a single year of Pedro Sánchez's government, both the debt and Rajoy have been reduced between 2014 and 2017, in their last three full years of government. [[Several Members: Yes!-Applause]] Please bear in mind that the dialogue between this government is constant with the European Commission and Spain with this government has undoubtedly gained credibility in Europe, a credibility that was undermined by the People's Party government which successively failed to meet the stability objectives, to the point of having to repeatedly renegotiate the deficit path and expose the country to a million dollar fine. [[rumors]] [[protests]] So with all this, why can the criticisms you make of us have credibility? The People's Party has no credibility in its criticisms, as I say, none. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That which on the right are good managers is pure fantasy, and stop cheating, stop cheating now. The government intends to establish a set of economic measures that will enable us to consolidate and guarantee the present and future welfare state, without generating more debts, but with sustainable growth that does not generate more environmental costs for future generations. And where some of you see only excessive deficit or superfluous expenses we see vital expenses for people, such as pensions. So, ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, I would like to say to you that last week it was confirmed that the Spanish economy continues to grow at a rate above the European average and is resisting the international situation better than many others. The Government's forecasts are prudent, accountable and aligned with the forecasts of the European Commission, the Bank of Spain and the International Monetary Fund. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, if you are concerned about Spain, do not generate any more uncertainty with your apocalyptic speeches; do for once a well-understood patriotism, because whoever wants his country, his community, his municipality, cannot put his partisan interests above the general interests, constantly tensioning and defending the worst. It is up to the Government to draw up budgets, but today it is up to us, Parliament, to decide whether these budgets should be drawn up under obsolete objectives that are not feasible or more realistic - such as those presented to us by the Government - which are prudent, credible and which generate confidence. We do not ask you, ladies and gentlemen, an act of faith, we ask you for responsibility. More than an option is an obligation: to vote in favour of responsibility for the interests of the whole country so that citizens can move forward in terms of prosperity without anyone, no one can stand behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday two more women were killed in Aznalcollar and Fuenlabrada, adding 13 victims of gender-based violence this year and 1046 since 2003. As proof of the commitment and revulsion of this House and in memory of the victims, the Bureau of Congress has agreed to keep a minute of silence before the vote. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u54	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. First, a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the steps that the Government is going to take to depoliticize constitutional bodies. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group into Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 140 against 190.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u55	It's rejected. OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ECONOMIC RELATIONS OF CATALUNA-SPAIN. [[File number 173/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u56	Secondly, a motion for urgent questioning by the Plural Parliamentary Group on economic relations in Catalonia and Spain. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Bel]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 183 against, 139 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u57	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u58	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions: Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, done at Brussels on 6 February 2019. We shall proceed to the electronic vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 279 against, 1 abstention, 51.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u59	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u60	Debate on the objective of budgetary stability: Government agreement adjusting the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the general government as a whole and for each of its subsectors for the year 2020 and setting the non-financial expenditure limit of the State budget for the year 2020. The adequacy of the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt is voted upon. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 337; 164 plus 4 telematics votes, 168; against 150; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u61	The agreement adjusting the fiscal stability and public debt targets for all public administrations and for each subsector by 2020 is therefore approved. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in common, and the members of the Government, standing]] - AGREEMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF BUDGETARY STABILITY AND PUBLIC DEBT OBJECTIVES FOR THE COMPETITION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS AND EVERY SUBSIDIARY OF THE GOVERNMENTS FOR THE PERIOD 2021-2023 AND THE NON-FINANCIAL EXPENDITURE LIMIT OF THE STATE BUDGET FOR THE YEAR 2021. [[File number 430/00002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u62	Government agreement setting the budgetary stability and public debt targets for the general government and each of its subsectors for the period 2021-2023 and the non-financial expenditure ceiling for the State budget for the year 2021. The objectives of budgetary stability and public debt proposed by the Government are voted upon. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 333 votes, plus 4 telematics votes, 337; 164 plus 4 telematics votes, 168; against 150; abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-02-27-CD200227.u63	The objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the general government as a whole and for each of its subsectors for the period 2021-2023 are hereby approved. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Groups of the United Nations We can-In Comú Ponde-Galicia in common and the members of the Government, on their feet, addressed to the Minister of Finance, Montero Quadrado]] Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was eleven and forty-five minutes in the morning.
