ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/000021 to 110/000025 and 110/000027. It has been reported that no group wishes to intervene. The opinions will be put to the vote with the rest of the votes scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u2	We are now discussing the request made by the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, for the creation of a commission of inquiry concerning the illegal use of personnel, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior in order to promote the political interests of the PP and to annul indictatory evidence for this party in cases of corruption during the mandates of the People's Party Government. For the defence of the request made by your groups, Mr Sicilia Alferez is speaking from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. There are plenty of reasons to approve the Committee of Inquiry that we are asking for today, just as there are plenty of reasons for the President of the People's Party to remember today that when he was a member of Avila, he was also deputy secretary of the People's Party of Rajoy and Cospedal, and that he is no stranger to this plot of corruption that affects his party and that we are still waiting for him to explain. [[applause]] The National Court has accused whoever was Minister of the Interior, Fernández Díaz, has also accused his number two, the Secretary of State for Security, Francisco Martínez. The Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office has requested that she be appointed secretary-general of the People's Party, Dolores de Cospedal, for crimes of, inter alia, prevarication and embezzlement. And the police investigations in this case indicate that the former president of the government, Mariano Rajoy, knew of this plot of espionage and corruption called Kitchen. Ladies and gentlemen, a plot of corruption to cover up another plot of corruption, the Kitchen to cover up Gürtel, the use of the State, first, to finance itself illegally and then to cover up that corruption and that illegal financing. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago in this House we presented the debate and therefore we presented the conclusions of a committee of inquiry which also affected the People's Party. It was concluded in that commission of inquiry that the People's Party through the Ministry of the Interior had used all these sources of the ministry to create false reports, spy on the political adversary, reopen closed cases, with the sole purpose of leaking false information to the press that could harm the political rival. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're short. Today we know - thanks to judicial investigations - that nothing more or less was created than a whole structure aimed at concealing the evidence that could prove the corruption of the People's Party that was not just criticizing the political adversary, they also used a whole plot to hide their corruption and their illegal financing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we ask a Commission to investigate whether the Ministry of the Interior, with Jorge Fernández Díaz at the head, used the ministry to destroy evidence and cover up crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask that we investigate whether they used public institutions and funds to cover up ten years of widespread and institutionalized corruption in the People's Party. If you prefer, I will tell you another way: what we are asking is to investigate whether they used public institutions and funds to cover up a genuine and effective system of institutional corruption through mechanisms of manipulation of central, autonomous and local public procurement. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the ruling of the Gürtel condemned them for taking advantage of corruption, the same ruling that considers proven the existence of a B accounting in the People's Party, a B box, which the judges say is a financial and accounting structure parallel to the official. Well, ladies and gentlemen, to cover up this illegal financing, the one that has been demonstrated, to end this evidence of the illegal financing of Box B, is why former Minister Fernández Díaz and his Secretary of State set up Operation Kitchen. And that is what the holder of the Central Court of Instruction No. 5 of the National High Court says, which explains that the goal of Kitchen was to locate documents held by Barcenas related to Box B of the People's Party, in order to seize those documents and remove them from the ongoing judicial investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, they did not have enough to deny the information to the judges when they were asked to even take the police to check in with them. They did not have enough to destroy evidence that was useful for justice as when they smashed the hard drive of the Barcens computer, they also set up a corrupt plot to locate and destroy any evidence that compromised the PP and demonstrated its illegal financing. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing is that the investigating judge himself apostilled that Kitchen met the objectives it had marked, that is, that this operation served because they were able to seize important documentation. And one wonders, ladies and gentlemen, how many investigations have been prevented? How many crimes have been hidden? How many investigations will have been obstructed by that structure that Mr Fernández Díaz set up? [[Protests.-Several Members: The EREs, the EREs]] I do not know, the case of the attic of Estepona of the former President of Madrid, Mr Ignacio González, comes to mind. True, the case was closed but it is also true that it cost the Commissioner of Marbella the job and they ended up with a Commissioner-General of the Judicial Police. Brugal case: more than thirty acquitted defendants, including former leaders of the People's Party. Some of the fundamental evidence of the case was declared null and void: the punctures carried out by the police. Pasarela case: the former president of the Region of Murcia, Pedro Antonio Sánchez, acquitted because the deadline for taking a statement has expired. Curiously, it's over six months to take a statement, and you know why it's over? Because you amended the Criminal Prosecution Act by shortening the time limits for investigating criminal cases. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have to admit that they had it all figured out, they had it all very well figured out. First, they devised a corrupt plot to finance themselves illegally, to pay for their campaigns, to pay for them. [[Protests]] Secondly, they created a corrupt plot to discredit the political opponent and thus have an advantage in electoral campaigns, win the elections so that they can continue to use the Government to finance themselves illegally. [[protests continue]] Third, they set up a corrupt plot, no longer just to discredit the political rival, also to try to spy and hide any evidence that might harm the People's Party and prove its illegal financing. Finally, and as a colophon, they change the Criminal Prosecution Act to limit the time limits for investigation and make it more difficult for the courts. They had everything measured, everything measured, ladies and gentlemen, everything! [[Protests and applause.- Several Members speak words that are not perceived.-A Member: Gamberro]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u4	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u5	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what is expected of a political party is that it cooperates with justice, rather than obstructing it. What is expected of a political party is to help the police prosecute crimes, rather than cover them up. What is expected of a political party is that it fights the plots of corruption, rather than creating them.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u6	Mr. Sicilia, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u7	I'm done. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what is expected of you here today is that you begin to show that you are not a plot, but a political party. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker cleans the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very serious matter, a very important one, but first of all the urgent matter. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop using the health of Madrid and the Spanish to oppose the Spanish Government. [[Applauds]] As I say, today we are possibly discussing one of the biggest attacks on our democracy since the recovery of our democracy. [[Protests]] We already knew, as everyone knows, that the People's Party used public institutions to finance itself illegally, to take bites from friendly entrepreneurs, to go doped up to election campaigns and to pay extra to its leaders. We also know, because it was found in the parliamentary seat, that there were cloacas set up from the Ministry of the Interior to slander, to defame, to defame, to their political opponents, to the political opponents of the People's Party, to fill hours and hours of television chats with the desire to alter the clean democratic game, with the desire to rig the elections, with the desire to alter the formation of democratic governments in Spain. But it's that Operation Kitchen is one more twist; it's the use of those same state sewers, those same interior structures, to destroy evidence, to sabotage trials, to cover up people who might have been involved in crimes by the People's Party. This, according to all indications, was carried out from the dome of the Ministry of the Interior, from the highest levels of the Ministry of the Interior; it was carried out in collaboration with mobsters, such as Mr. Villarejo; it was paid with public money, with reserved funds, with the most sensitive part in addition to public funds, which are those destined for national security. It was carried out using, according to published information, more than seventy agents of our State Security Forces and Corpses, dragging through the mud to our State Security Forces and Corpses by those who break their breasts every day saying to defend them and, who knows if, also, using certain judges. Here we have the curious case of the woman of Bárcenas, of Mrs. Rosalía Iglesias, who, despite having been sentenced to fifteen years in prison, did not enter into pressure; as many parliamentary chroniclers manifest and have investigated, something that was possibly decisive to seal the silence of Luis Bárcenas on this whole matter. And a parenthesis: Yesterday the General Council of the Judicial Power in office appointed one of the judges who was instrumental in leaving Mrs. Rosalía Iglesias out of prison, possibly sealing the omerta by Luis Bárcenas. End of parenthesis. [[Applauds]] It is extremely serious that there are numerous and clear indications that the second party in this country has been able to devote itself to these criminal activities, and this is not a matter of rotten apples, this is not something that happened when Mr Pablo Casado was a mere deputy of Ávila; all points out that the then secretary general of the People's Party and the then president of the People's Party were aware - if they did not participate - of this operation. And when the top leaders of a party participate in criminal activities this is not rotten apples, this is not something that happened when Mr. Married was a mere deputy for Ávila; this is party politics. That is why we think that Mr Pablo Casado must appear in this Commission as the highest representative of the People's Party, of the party that was allegedly engaged in these activities, because the Spaniards have the right to know what happened, we have the right to know the truth, we have the right to have political responsibilities cleared and we have the right to have mechanisms established so that this will never - ever again - happen again in Spain. [[rumors]] And if in the end it is found that this was a party policy of the People's Party we will have to talk, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, about applying the Constitution - I am sure that you, who every day proclaim themselves constitutionalists, will agree -; in particular we will have to talk about applying Article 22.2 of the Spanish Constitution, which says that associations that pursue ends or use means characterized as crimes are illegal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. He has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. I give the floor to Mrs Vázquez Blanco on behalf of that group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of joke is this? The ERE deputy - who was a member of the ERE - has come, the Zarrías adviser, condemned by the ERE, and the Social Security fraudster, to defend this Commission of Inquiry to the People's Party. [[Applauds]] What kind of joke is this, ladies and gentlemen? As it turns out, they're proposing a commission of inquiry. This is like having the fox take care of the chickens. They have sent you, Mr.Sicilia, to make the campaign already to Andalusia - look you don't have much to do -; let Susana Díaz be prepared with you. They are proposing to us today a commission of inquiry into a previous government, a government nine years ago; a farce to cover up the current disgovernment. In a parliamentary response you told us that we could not control the 2019 government because it was a previous government - to Marlaska first - and now we cannot control the previous government but yes to one before the previous one, to the one nine years ago. They mention people, none of whom are already in the active life of politics, not even in the national leadership of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tired of you using Congress to control the opposition. Congress is to control the government. [[Applauds]] In this obsession they have to annihilate the opposition they become opposition of the opposition. They want to silence the opposition, they want to silence the People's Party to cover up its harmful management. It is the most miserable government, which is trying to cover up 56 000 dead with 56 000 euros allegedly defrauded. He's the most miserable government. You, ladies and gentlemen, have already drawn up the conclusions, you have already formulated them today. What's the point of everything you say? You already have pre-determined convictions. Mrs Lastra, you, who sign this Commission's request, I already know that you have been calling yourself a social activist since you were sixteen years old, would not give you time to study the 1995 Penal Code, but you certainly had time to add and subtract. You have six deputies; we have three. You have already won the votes. Don't waste us any more time. Condemn Rajoy, Cospedal, Jorge Fernández, everyone you want. They have already done so on the Commission of Inquiry into Patriotic Police and that a judge filed in July. They have already done so at the Bankia Commission of Inquiry in 2017, although they have now absolved everyone, including members of their party, and that you condemned. These are matters, ladies and gentlemen, that have to be resolved by the courts; let us not waste time in Congress, making morbid, because that is what is being done with these Commissions. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, which Committee of Inquiry did the Spaniards wish to create today? The one requested this week by the People's Party, a Commission to investigate the political responsibilities of the pandemic. Why are we the country with the most dead? Why are we the country with the most infected health care? Why were 60 million euros given in commissions to friends at the expense of the health of the Spaniards? Why did the government give false tests? Why? Why are we the country with the worst economy in Europe? Why are we the country where 100 000 companies have closed down in the coming year? Why are we the country with 7 million unemployed and the tail of Europe? Why did Mr. Iglesias leave the elderly residences since March 19th? This is what the Spanish want us to talk about, not what we did nine years ago! [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] If you want to go back to the past, let's go back to the past, ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago there was also a request for a commission of inquiry into sexual abuse of minors in the Balearic Islands, which you have rejected.What a shame to hide sexual abuse of children in your government, Podemos and PSOE in the Balearic Islands! What a shame! [[Applauds]] But let's go to the past, as they said here. Since the spokesman for the EREs came - he was a deputy, he was an advisor to Mr Zarrías - he knows a lot about the EREs. Two national presidents of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party - they were national presidents -, ministers of the Zapatero era, Mr. Chaves and Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez, were condemned in the ERE, and are now present because all Spain has seen how the condemned Chaves met with the Minister of Justice. What was he asking for? A pardon? Help with recourse? But see if they are current that, apart from Mr Sicilia, who was of the ERE, three current ministers were also advisors, Mrs Montero, Mrs Calvo and Mr Planas. Yes, the three ministers were advisors while stealing and looting money in Andalusia. They were counselors! [[Applauds]] Cervantes said: "What madness leads me to count other people's faults having so much to say about mine! Mr. Simancas, let's do a commission of inquiry on you. [[Rumors]] The businessman Mr. Marjariza says he's given you money. Let's make one over you! [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of Podemos, let's do one about the illegal financing of your party, which is imputed! Yes! [[Rumors]] Mr De Podemos, also accused of assaulting a police officer, has already been directly asked to resign. For example, on you, Mr Echenique; let us make a Commission of Inquiry on you, on how to defraud Social Security and remain a Member. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Let's make a Commission on Irene Montero, on how to abuse the workers and silence them with 50 000 euros! Because he changed his escort job to housework. Let's do... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u12	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u13	I'm glad. Spare me the time, Madam President. Let's do one about Vice President Teresa Rivero and the 80 million defrauded in Isofoton when I was on the Commission. Let's do one about Mr. Duke, about how to defraud the Treasury and pay less taxes. Let us make one about the Secretary of State for Tourism, accused of misappropriation and prevarication, not for asking for aid from the European Union, but for stealing! Let's make one on him too! Let's do one about the Faffe! Your election campaigns in Andalusia will be full of cocaine stripes! They'll remember for that and for the brothel! They remember for that! [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Let's do one about the prosecution, about your prosecution, Mr. Sanchez's. In 2016, a journalistic investigation revealed that more than a hundred charges against PP charges were closed without conviction. I set the example with names and surnames, families that have been humiliated, people who had to leave public and political life and who were later acquitted. I name them: García Albiol, Francisco Camps, Rita Barberá, Oscar Clavell, Pilar Barreiro, Pedro Antonio Sánchez. The People's Party, by the hard drives, was acquitted, Mr.Sicilia. Don't come lying here. [[Applauds]] The Mayor of Granada, the two mayors of the Brugal case, etc. And you never apologized to them or their families. Look at the People's Group, because after the certainties I understand that you feel ashamed and are not able to look at each other. The People's Group will not allow you lessons of honesty or morality, because it is precisely you who lack them. [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. [[Protests]] I pray silently. Mrs. Prohens Rigo, please, I ask you to remain silent. We started well in the morning, I beg you to continue with the same silence. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u15	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are already protesting and have not yet heard my reply. You see, when you finish listening to her, what you're going to shout. [[Applauds]] Mrs Vázquez, the previous spokesman for your group, when he had to present the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry that spoke of the Ministry of the Interior and Jorge Fernández Díaz in order to discredit the political adversary, said exactly what you said here today: that there was no cause, that there was not a single document that made clear the use of the Ministry of the Interior, that Mr Fernández Díaz was a loyal servant. Do you know what's going on, Mrs. Vazquez? That today that spokesman, Mr Rojas, could not go to the rostrum because it was proved in the courts that there was cause, that the Ministry of the Interior with Fernández Díaz had set up a plot with police officers not only to discredit the political adversary but also to cover up the corruptions of the People's Party. [[Mrs Vázquez Blanco makes negative signs.- Various Members: No, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mrs Vázquez, you will be able to shout a lot, but it is very likely that in three years' time, when this Committee of Inquiry which is approved today draws its conclusions, you will not be able to come to the rostrum, because your words will contradict them by a court, Mrs Vázquez. Don't doubt it. [[Applauds]] Are you talking about names, Mrs. Vazquez? Names? I'll remind you of some other names of leaders... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u17	I told them you were going to protest, but keep your breath on. I'll tell you a name. [[A Member: Garriga.-Rumores]] Cifuentes, Granados, Zaplana, Barcenas, Mouse, Fabra, Matas. What are they, isolated cases from the People's Party? Isolated cases, Mrs. Vazquez? [[Applauds]] More names - because already the Judicial Police will run out of names to name the plots of the PP -: Gürtel, Kitchen, Púnica, Lezo, Brugal, Palma Arena, and I can follow. Am I still, Mrs. Vazquez? Are you going to come here and talk about names? And more you! Look, Mrs. Vázquez, you know how hard it is to get an opposition out of the National Police, and both you and I should be ashamed that the mole, the driver to whom they paid with reserved funds the Kitchen corruption plot would reward him by putting him in a place in the National Police. [[Applauds]] You would have to give me the same shame as a mole they paid with funds reserved today in view of the police uniform, the same police they wanted to use to cover up their corruption. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] As much as they weigh and as much as they shout, they set up Kitchen to cover up ten years of widespread and institutionalized corruption in the People's Party. They set up the Kitchen to cover up the lodazal in which they are: thirteen open court cases, seven continuing to investigate, four pending trials and two awaiting very recent judgement. That's what you wanted to cover up with Kitchen, Mrs. Vázquez, the laudazal that you had turned Genoa Street into. What you did to discredit politics is to bring the rottenness and corruption of the Bárcenas office to the office of the Ministry of the Interior, that's what you did, Mrs. Vázquez. [[Applauds]] Some of us thought that Mr Fernández Díaz would be remembered as a minister for removing 12,000 people from the streets, for that law gags, for decorating religious images, but no, we will remember him by the Kitchen, we will remember him for what he said: for turning the office of the Ministry of the Interior into a laudable and a veritable rot. Mrs Vazquez and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I was telling you: if you really want to prove that you are fighting corruption, today you have an opportunity to do so. Stop using the police - stop using the police - to cover up their shames, because that harms Spain's interest; stop using and blocking institutions like the General Council of the Judiciary because that harms Spain; and stop justifying corruption because that harms Spain. If they're so patriotic, do you know what they can do? Instead of asking Mr Fernández Díaz for a militant card, ask him to come to the Commission and explain what Kitchen was like. By the way, tell the Secretary of State for Security, Mr Martínez, that he does not need to go to court to pull the blanket, that he can do it but that we also expect him here in this seat to give the explanations that we are going to require him to do. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u18	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. The good thing about going to the Spokespersons' Board every Tuesday is that you already know the arguments of the People's Party, because it is displayed there by the Spokesperson. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] In addition to the mud machine, which is common when the People's Party is cornered by its corruption cases, in addition to the obvious nervousness that distils the People's Party bench and its spokesman when it comes to the rostrum, the People's Party's arguments against this Commission of Inquiry are well known. The first is that the Congress of Deputies is not to control the opposition in previous governments. To be constitutionalists, the People's Party bench reads little about the Spanish Constitution. Section 76.1 makes it very clear that commissions of inquiry are used to investigate any matter of public interest. In fact, during the government of Mariano Rajoy began the Commission of Inquiry into the Incident of Spanair, which took place during the term of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. The appearances in plenary, the oral questions are to control the Government; the commissions of inquiry are to investigate matters of public interest, as established by the Constitution, as stipulated in article 52.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. I recommend that you read a little more about the Spanish Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]] The second argument preferred by the right, always used by the corrupt, is that they are all the same. [[Rumors]] They have already abandoned the desire to convey to citizens that they are not corrupt and, as they can no longer do, what they are now trying to say is that we are all the same. [[Rumors]] But the difference, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, between your party and mine is that you have a lot of people in jail and all the false allegations you have filed against my political formation have been filed. I would therefore ask you to wash your mouths with soap before talking about false allegations about financing my political force. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u20	I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u21	Finally, and I think this is the saddest of all, what reveals the use of false arguments and what reveals the nervousness so evident in the spokesmen of the People's Party is that the People's Party does not intend to amend and that surely if we had not thrown at the Gürtel de la Moncloa and if we had not thrown Mariano Rajoy, today the People's Party would be using the Ministry of the Interior and the State cloacas to destroy evidence on contracts with Kike Sarasola, on Operation Bicho or on what Mrs Ayuso did with the residences in Madrid. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u22	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. [[A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the rostrum used by Mr. Echenique Robba]] Mrs Vazquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Echenique, you're doomed. There are no convicts in the Members of the People's Group. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Make it clear to him. Mr Sicilia, the PSOE, which has a minister of the Interior in prison, a secretary of state in prison, a director of the Civil Guard in prison, you, who spent with the EREs, ruined and stole more millions than Aragon's budget, you who were in that cabinet of a convict, where there are three ministers of the Council of Ministers who were approving those robberies, you are the ones who had to come to explain to the Congress of Deputies because it is now, of course it is now! [[Applauds]] And look, indeed, I am ashamed because we work, the opponents have worked, but more shame makes me see a policeman, a fellow doubting the presumption of innocence. You know that's sacred to any cop. Gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, why do they support convicts more than those who have the presumption of innocence? Make him look at it. You, gentlemen of PSOE and Podemos, always questioning the police, always. Mr. Pablo Iglesias already did it by inventing at the time that they had stolen the card from Mrs. Dina and that it was the system against him and today we have realized that as a victim he went to execution and that being a victim of the sewers became the sewer. [[Applauds]] Now we're learning that it was him, that it wasn't the police, and he invented it; just as he wanted to beat up the police, that was invented. But look, for having a rotten apple in the police we're not gonna blame the seventy thousand men and women who would give their lives even for you, look! Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, your great data - let's have a look at it too - come from a corrupt commissioner who is in jail. Why do they not mention Mr Villarejo in the Commission's letter? Why are they hiding it? Why don't you talk about Villarejo? [[Applauds]] Villarejo is in jail for committing crimes, for being a fanfare, blackmailer. Moreover, he said last week that with the governments of the PSOE he made a lot of money and with those of the PP not. Wow, if that's gonna be the problem anyway! Do you know why they can't talk about him? [[Applauds]] Because they're afraid of him. Villarejo created it by the PSOE in the stage of Felipe González. Do you remember when in 1995 Minister Belloch and Secretary of State Robles commissioned Veritas' report against then Judge Garzón, friend of Villarejo and Dolores Delgado? It's just that this is a plot, this is a plot. Mr Villarejo boasts commissions and work during the Rubalcaba era, when he is ascended in the dome of the PSOE. Will they open a commission of inquiry to Rubalcaba, who will rest in peace? What's more, I think they're capable, huh? I think they're capable. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, today the only person who has recorded conversations with Mr Villarejo is the current Attorney General of the State, ex-Minister and MP of the PSOE, who was happy that prostitution was a safe business and mocked homosexuals. [[applause]] That is the only one who has heard all the Spaniards in conversations with Villarejo, because the rest are monologues. [[A Member of Parliament: What a scandal!]] And speaking of the Public Prosecutor's Office, do you think it's normal for the Public Prosecutor's Office to shield the government? In other words, do you want to investigate events of years and manipulate the Office of the Prosecutor so that it does not investigate the Government for its management of the pandemic during this legislature? Do you think the Spaniards are going to believe you're going to be researchers in good faith? No, ladies and gentlemen. They go in bad faith and those who do so will be able to win a vote in Congress today, but they will end badly. Ladies and gentlemen, the parties of the Government believe that with this Commission they will make up their ugly management in one of the most delicate moments in the history of Spain, but they are wrong. The millions of Spaniards who are suffering in this crisis want their representatives to work to find solutions and to get rid of the usual politicians. The Spaniards want to know what the government did during the crisis management, what happened to the money from the fake masks, what happened to the lack of action to react to the pandemic, why they sent us to the 8-M demonstration if they knew we couldn't go. That's what we have to investigate and Operation Kitchen to the courts and let the courts decide, it's not us the judges, but don't condemn before the courts do. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us focus on the most difficult moment in Spanish history in centuries, with a deadly virus that threatens not only lives but is killing our economy. Gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is a great party. We have taken Spain twice out of the crisis and we are going to do it a third time with Pablo Casado in charge. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. The two parties that make up the pitiful and pitiful PSOE-We can return to the perverse use of Congress to try to haunt their political opponents, the first and last objective of the inquisitorial conclave disguised as the Commission of Inquiry. It should be recalled, however, that the responsibilities arising from any alleged misuse of the former Ministry of the Interior are already being investigated by the National High Court and it will be up to the courts to take appropriate decisions. I therefore reject this disastrous formula, which will convert Congress into a gateway of opposition politicians to whom to launch all kinds of invectives and make them the object of tearing pimpampum of patibular vocation. It should be noted that, even before this infestation was registered, its promoters already announced that one of the participants would be the main leader of the opposition, Mr. Casado, who has never had government responsibilities, which gives us a clue as to what the true intentions and purposes of the research of these inquisitors are. Ladies and gentlemen, from this rostrum I have already referred on some other occasion to Jovellanos, one of the extraordinary Spaniards who is evoked in the medallion that decorates the ceiling of this Chamber. As in its time, very bad times run. Therefore, by opposing this request from the Inquisitorial Commission - today against the PP, tomorrow against VOX, passed against any other political adversary - I renew my commitment to defend democracy, institutions and the people who stand up against those who want to trample them. I will vote against, Madam President, because this Commission of the new Inquisitors 2.0 is undermining the General Courts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u27	Thank you, Madam President. As Mafalda said, stop this Congress that I'm leaving. I believe that the debate has been of a tremendous level and perhaps what I think is thought by many citizens. That said, I'm going to try to put some thought into it. In August came the request for urgent appearance by the PP of the Vice-President of the Government on the subject of financing of Podemos and we gave two reasons not to support it, and we are not like Podemos. The first reason is that my political force does believe in justice, in a justice that in this country has put in prison vice-presidents of the government, ministers of the PSOE and the PP, the great financiers of this country, the great entrepreneurs and the king's brother-in-law. We said that judicial developments had to be allowed to run and that, if a Commission of Inquiry had to be set up at some point, it would be created. We do not support the presence of the Vice-President of the Government because we believed that this country had more urgent issues. At this time the Socialist Party and Podemos bring the request for the creation of a Commission of Inquiry into the People's Party on subjects which, according to the first impression, are deeply worrying and very serious and which at this time will have to have an investigation, above all, of political responsibilities, which is what Congress is doing. What we believe is that today, in October, at this time, we cannot have the main leaders of this country or this House dedicated 100% to a Commission of Inquiry - I have chaired a Commission of Inquiry and I know what that is - on matters that are on the judicial track. We believe that there will be a Commission of Inquiry at the moment and we will support it, but we must turn to the judicial investigation. At this time the priority of our time as Members and of this House is the economic crisis in this country, the evolution of the pandemic, reaching a pension agreement, being able to make an assessment of how the education and health issues are going and, above all, having general state budgets, work performance and managing European funds. That does not mean that in January, February or March we have to open a Commission of Inquiry to the People's Party or Podemos to clear political responsibilities, if any, following the judicial investigation. I am not matching things, I know the gravity of one thing and another; all I am saying is that my political force believes that now the priority for the political times of this House and its main political forces is another. That is why we are going to abstain, as we abstained in August in the request for the attendance of Vice-President Pablo Iglesias, although it gives us great concern. Let us allow justice to take place and let us devote ourselves over the next three months to taking this country forward. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, and lastly, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u29	Thank you, President. It is precisely today that it is October 1 that three years of the referendum of self-determination in Catalonia are celebrated, a day that the Catalan people and all our fraternal peoples believe we remember with pride and dignity and that, however, it is a day of shame for the police forces in the Spanish State. I'm referring to the images. I doubt that none of those who have preceded me in the speech and who have spoken about the honorability of the body would be able to defend before a minimally objective observer that those images of police aggression against voters are something defendable. Today we know, for example, that the policeman who took a flying kick jumping several steps has been identified and that they will proceed - I hope, one day - to respond to these facts. These were the most visible attacks, but then there were less visible attacks where the police were also used. It was Operation Catalonia, it was these dosieras and these plots that connect us with what we are talking about today, Operation Kitchen, the use of a political police to, with the dirty war, try to wear out political opponents, be they other Spanish political parties, whether independence or also to protect this omertà that allowed the People's Party to continue with its plots of corruption. It reminds us of sinister characters that all of us would have liked to have forgotten, but we cannot afford this luxury. We must remember Fernández Díaz, Cospedal, Sáenz de Santamaría, all these people must remember her to keep in mind how dirty the exercise of power in the Spanish State can become. We must follow up this Committee of Inquiry, we must get to the bottom, we must hope that we can get to the bottom without censorship. Yesterday, for example, it transcended a part of this declassified summary in which Villarejo said: 'There are fucking information in Andorra that have stopped almost all for the emeritus. If there is always the emeritus everywhere!' They were information - it seems - about the corruption of Pujol, but with the Royal House we have met, with that Royal House that we are not allowed to investigate with a commission like that today that can be approved. What a paradox, the corruption of the Pujol that was often blamed to the independenceists as if it were our responsibility and that, by the way, part of the Spanish left also fell into that trap - I remember a few words from now Minister Alberto Garzón telling us that independence was going to be done by the hand of Pujol -, I say what a paradox that not only independence has nothing to do with this corruption of Pujol that yesterday moved in these words of Villarejo, but that investigating it would end up implying not independence, but the king, the head of state, symbol of its unity and permanence. Therefore, we are in favour of investigating any corrupt plot, in favour of reaching the bottom, falling whoever falls. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. The representative of the People's Party said that why we didn't investigate everyone, some quoted them with names and surnames, quoted Mr.Siancas. I would encourage you to be encouraged to investigate, so we will know who was behind the 'tamayazo', just as the days that did not GTA for Madrid did 'tamayazo'. [[Applauds]] But he was saying more, he was saying that everyone had to be investigated, and I agree with the representative of the People's Party. It seems good to me that everyone is being investigated; moreover, if everyone is being investigated with the same determination, with the same faith and determination that is being investigated by us and by us, the Basque independenceists, I am convinced that their next congress will be held in Soto del Real. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u33	But he also said something else. He said that what we had to ask ourselves is why we are Europe's last economy. And it's true, it's an interesting reflection. Perhaps the answer was given by the AIReF two years ago, when it said that corruption in Spain took the order of EUR 90 billion a year. For people to understand, 9 billion a month costs the ERTE. See if you could afford months of ERTE to all people who have a bad time if some and some people didn't crack or take what isn't theirs. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u34	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u35	I've still got five and a half minutes. Take it easy. We are going to vote in favour of this Committee of Inquiry and, as I have already said, we would vote in favour of all the committees that have asked us. But I want people to notice a question: this is a piece, number seven, of a summary that has twenty pieces and that is called Tandem, and that covers, once again - it is not the first and will not be the last - the whole corollary of corruption that splashes on the Spanish state. Because the Spanish state and those who defend the great and free one in the only thing that prove to be great is in corruption, which, unfortunately, is suffered by citizens, also Basque citizens. As I told you, this is a saga, like that of The Godfather; it is the continuation of the Gürtel, which had its course, and now comes the Kitchen. In the end, we are talking about corrupt people in the Gürtel, those who protect the corrupt, the Kitchen, and one day you will have to have the gallarity and the guts to investigate also the corrupters, those who put the dough so that some take it and others protect them for taking it. I hope we see that third chapter. [[Applauds]] But these debates also teach us things. We are taught that the previous Committee of Inquiry, which had to do with Gürtel, closed badly, because some probably understood that, with the resignation of the President of the Government - well, with the resignation not, with Mr Rajoy's motion of censure - the whole debate was over. But there were those who told them, not only us, Euskal Herria Bildu, but other groups, that we had to continue investigating corruption, because it is a structural problem in the Spanish state. The economic model of the Spanish State is unfortunately not understood without the phenomenon of corruption, without the phenomenon of sales, of amigoism, of plugging, of all that. That's the sadness and that's the reality. That's why we're back here today. [[Rumors]] Moreover, in the Kitchen, something is said that is very dangerous for any democracy, also for the Spanish one, which is not unbeatable. It is said that there was a patriotic police force. I ask you to reflect on that term. What is a patriotic police and whose service is a patriotic police? Only those who confuse the country with the party and its personal interests with the collectives understand that they must have a police officer at their service. And this, which some have already quoted from this rostrum, is the pure omertà. The omertà is the code of honor of the Sicilian mafia to protect the crimes that the mafia itself commits. [[Rumors]] That's what Mr. Fernández Díaz has done. [[Applauds]] In short, in times of redness for thousands and tens of thousands.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u36	I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u37	... The only thing we see are pocket patriots, those who take what's everyone's to take it to their own pockets. We are in favour of anyone appearing on that Commission. We know that there is a person who will not be able to appear, a ethereal being like Marcelo, the guardian angel of the former Interior Minister will not, but we want a lot of people who came to the Commission of Operation Gürtel to tell us, again, what they told us then and to prove that they were lying, that in that exercise of their honorability they were lying to the deputies and the deputies. Why in those 3700 leaflets of the talks or, you would have to say, bravado - or fanfare, following the logic of the representative of the People's Party? of Mr Villarejo, quotes many people, and it is true that he does so with a common connection with the previous case, that of the Gürtel, quotes them with nicknames - I would say - chastises. If we used to talk about Correa and say the Bigots, Luis the Goat or Don Vito, now we talk about the Barbas, the Asturian, the Little One, the Cospe, Choco Paco, the Cook, Chicken, Fat, Cospedin or Oli. That's the lexicon that's handled in some realities. In short, what we are talking about is the diversion of money in the form of corruption and with mafia forms - hence the omertà - or criminals, as some jurists also say, from the very epicenter of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, the cloacas were not born to defend the People's Party, the cloacas have been in existence in the Spanish state for decades and have been used in different ways, sometimes to protect particular interests, sometimes to do things quite harder. We are committed to bringing all the rigour we can bring, all the transparency and all the seriousness. [[Rumors]] We try to do this on the Gürtel Commission of Inquiry. We didn't have a bad time, I'd even say we had a good time with some illustrious people, even those with whom he's on a Masterchef show today, when he doesn't play Candy Crush. But what we want is to get to the bottom of the truth, because you are always wrong in one thing and make the presumption of innocence. I will make this clear to you: all the people who appear in this Commission have the full presumption of innocence, and that is what the courts are for. But, in the general interest, I would ask you not to confuse something as basic in a democracy as the separation of powers and not to fill your mouth by talking about this being the temple of popular sovereignty and the temple of democracy and at the same time preventing you from doing your job, which has to do with reducing political responsibilities. As simple as that. The courts, to the judicial; this House, to the political. I'll finish with a question. It is worrying that in this state it is much more serious to want to vote - as on 1 October the Catalans and Catalans did, and that the police are being persecuted and used for it - than to steal money - and that the police are being used to protect those who steal money. [[Applauds]] I only wish for one thing. Spain has enormous capacities in many things, I will not deny it, it has an enormous capacity to design a financial engineering that allows you to hide money and that money never comes. That's what they're good at. But then, at the same time, they are tremendously clumsy when it comes to revealing a simple unknown that any eleven-year-old would know - which is like clearing an equine in a simple equation -: knowing who is behind that nickname of M. Rajoy. It seems that in the Spanish state there is only one person who knows who is behind M. Rajoy and it is this gentleman of beards who holds the shirt of the Spanish Selection where M. Rajoy puts. [[shows a photograph]] I think this gentleman's name is Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u38	Thank you, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u39	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is never pleasant to speak in a debate and in a situation like this. The committees of inquiry should be an exception in political dynamics; however, there are certainly circumstances in this case that justify the inevitable nature of the debate that is taking place here today. We are talking about serious conduct by members of the Government who use State resources to hide illegalities in their own interest, with the connivance of an official dome that seems to act more like a partisan client network than as officials in the service of the State. All this adorned with revelations from a retired commissioner, who continued to act like Peter for his home, influencing the police force and spying on everyone doing particular alienation tasks for politicians and entrepreneurs. This is a worrying situation, if any. I say that it should be confirmed, because, of course, nothing can be clearly stated until there is a court ruling or ruling. Although in this case we are faced with the circumstance of the confession of part, in particular, of a high public office, the Secretary of State for Security, number two in the Ministry of the Interior, who took a direct part in the talk. This is precisely the case, the very confession of the Secretary of State for Security, makes the creation of the Commission of Inquiry inevitable, given the credibility that has a direct testimony of someone who will be harmed by his own statements. Otherwise, this Parliament would be giving up its duties because it is not only the political control of the executive, but also the initiative of the legislative proposals necessary to prevent the recurrence of anti-legal or abuse of power. And it is not worth the argument that the facts to be investigated occurred in the previous legislature, the facts to be investigated apparently affect the mechanisms of the Administration, the interaction of political leadership with the civil servant, a possible abuse of power, the diversion of public resources. Civil or criminal liability before the courts does not automatically expire upon leaving office, nor can the policy lapse, because otherwise the political system itself would be unharmed by practices that could never be examined and, where appropriate, censored and corrected if the offender is withdrawn in time. If the judge can't close his eyes, how is that institution responsible for controlling the executive going to do? In other words, judicial reproach does not necessarily negate political reproach. If, moreover, those who have acted illegally would have done so in the interest of their own political organization, which continues to be present in the institutions, the argument is even less valid. I am going to be honest with you, I have no illusions as to the real possibilities for this Commission to be able to delve into the case and discover for itself new elements as to what has happened. I'm afraid that as on other occasions it's used to embarrass the track and becomes a new space to throw each other out to other thick words that qualify as a fat brush. It is difficult not to do so, not only because of the intolerant climate that we are living here in recent times, but above all because, since the matter is sub judicious, the court, based on the very order in force, is not going to forward to this Parliament any documentation that is in its power or line of investigation in which it is working. We will hear from the media the echoes of what the court is making public and it will be those same media that will most likely access information that will hardly be able to obtain directly from this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue that brings us together is closely related to the institutional crisis that we are experiencing, it is one more expression of it. In the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the report, we have known the existence of a patriotic police force that acted beyond the neutrality required by the legal order by listening, falsely accusing, acting by ideology and thus identifying its own with that of the State and that of the country. And this police phenomenon, which is but one of the expressions of this crisis, has intervened directly in another, such as the territorial one, in a conflict in Catalonia that by its own characteristics should be resolved in political terms, but which has become in an order and command, judicializing politics and punctuating solutions. Moreover, if we take into account the widespread doubts about the objectivity of the judiciary. The judiciary has lost all credibility with regard to its independence, there are political blockades for the renewal of organs, prosecutors who try to impose their ideological theses no longer because we have verified it in the trials of the trial, but because it has even manifested it nothing less than the lieutenant prosecutor of the Supreme Court, Mr Navajas. That judicial appointments be made considering the world view of the candidate, of the candidate, is something that happens everywhere. So far no programme, but it is that in Spain after the appointment there is an intimate and almost hierarchical relationship between the judiciary and the politician. The problem in the Spanish judiciary is that these appointments are made to then maintain a relationship of ideological coordination and control so that it does not happen as in other countries where a supposedly conservative judge sometimes surprises with a progressive sentence. The results of the votes in the courts are already known here in advance and the press is in charge of announcing them without a shadow of a doubt. The last episode starring the president of the Supreme Court - former institutional office of the People's Party - tearing up clothes and publicly charging against the Government along with some associations of judges and other members of the General Council of the Judiciary for the absence of the king in the delivery of offices in Barcelona is another example of the lack of neutrality in the Judiciary. And in this case, one of two, or the king called him to tell him that he was not going to come and authorized him to make public his supposed malaise - which would pose an unprecedented and unconstitutional challenge to the executive - or did not, and Mr. Lesmes violated the confidentiality that is customary in the conversations with the king, using the figure of the latter to zaher the government and generate an unprecedented institutional attack from the judiciary using the head of state. Bad if it's the first, too if it's the second. The most glaring thing is the king's silence after the political sham around his figure, for the Royal House could close the controversy and ask serenity, pointing out that the institutional functioning has been the constitutionally fixed - as it has been -, so there is no reproach to do; and warning, at the same time, that the Head of State is not the patrimony of any political position or ideology, and this would be framed in his moderate work of the regular functioning of the institutions, which literally emanates from article 56 of the Constitution. However, he has not; the king has silenced, thus feeding an artificial polemic and institutional rift. On the other hand, we are meeting a king emeritus on whom financial scandals are constantly hanging over - I am ending, Madam President - and of another kind, and who has gone to take refuge from the worldly noise nothing less than the Arab Emirates. Of course, the architecture of Title II of the Constitution, as interpreted today, does not support, in particular, inviolability. I'm done. Mr Casado and Mr Sánchez usually repeat that Spain is a great nation. What I see - and I refer to the tests - is that today, October 1st, it's made of foxes. To face this reality apart is the purpose of the Commission which is proposed; and what will have to be clarified by this Commission of Inquiry - which, given the evidence and the evidence that exists, just abdicating its institutional duty this plenary could refuse - is not only to know exactly what happened, but to reflect on the remedies necessary for this situation not to be repeated again. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u40	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Pause. A cleaning service worker cleans the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone; good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are - someone has already said it here in the rostrum - passing the worst pandemic in history; more than 50,000 dead; in a week more than a million jobs have been lost, and talking about corruption. I want to start by saying that the main concern of Citizens at this time is and will always be the management of the pandemic, under the slogan: saving lives and saving jobs. But, look, it turns out that the CIS - that so unreliable CIS of Tezanos - tells us that the Spaniards still have within their area of concern the political parties, the behavior of the politicians, which, of course, given what we have seen and what we have just seen, I am not surprised that they are concerned, and also political corruption. Doesn't it seem incredible that, with the one we are falling into, with the crisis we have on us, citizens still worry about corruption? Because, gentlemen of the government - we can, Socialist Party - you don't care about corruption; you care about other people's corruption; you don't care about your own corruption. You see the kitchen, you see Kitchen, and yet you omit to see Neurona. Could you, gentlemen of Podemos, Mr Echenique, for once put aside the ideology and do something good for the Spaniards, do something good, and let us know what is called Neurona, which you say is nothing? You should, as we do in Citizens, vote in favour of all the commissions of inquiry to fight corruption. Because corruption has no ideology; because you have given a loud spectacle with your applause, with your booches, you and you My companion Sara Giménez said to me, "What a shame I am going through. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[pointing to the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Yes, indeed, what shame we were going through those who do not have a single case of corruption and how we should be seeing citizens, who seem to have arrived from Mars yesterday and landed on Earth. Sounds like a lie. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u43	That is, then, it turns out that a kitchen, where public funds are used to avoid evidence in a case of corruption, is better or worse, as it is seen, than a brothel where cocaine is consumed with public money. What a spectacle! And then there are statements like that of the Minister of Consumer Affairs, Alberto Garzón, who says that it is impossible for a criminal to be left-wing. Look at you guys, what a guy, what lights. Look, do you know what the acronyms of corruption are? The acronyms of corruption are neither PP, nor PSOE, nor anything; the acronyms of corruption are the symbol of the euro. It is that only one is corrupted by power and money, and no matter whether it is left or right. It has also been said before here - the spokesman of the PNV - that it matters how you face it, it matters how you fight. You can cover, you can deny, you can close ranks, you can say: Luis, you are strong, or you can denounce, you can ask for forgiveness, you can take steps so that this does not happen again. Gentlemen of the PSOE, please let us investigate Neurona, as we are asking all parties in this House, except you. You come to the government, you stand up to the fight against corruption for the Gürtel case, for the judgment - do not tell me that you are not ironies of the fate that I was accused of the Gürtel case - that led Pedro Sánchez to the presidency of the government and you refuse to investigate a case called Neurona, where with public funds, with that money that is of all, it turns out that you have falsified, that you have simulated election expenses through a company of an alleged bulldozer who does not have infrastructure to carry out those activities. Very serious things, and none of the ministries, and in particular Justice, seem to be working on any anti-corruption law. No, no, Moreover, we arrived in Citizens with the duties done, with an anti-corruption law already agreed in the XII Legislature, with the transposition of the directive of protection of the complainant and we are voted against. Of course, because they don't want to fight corruption. We shall vote in favour of this Committee of Inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are doing democracy a little favor, a little favor for the trust that citizens must have in their political leaders, because, if Neurona is a serious case, do not tell me that what we want to investigate is a thing that will be investigated by the courts, when with public money, with the use of the judicial apparatus - everything, of course, supposedly - has been dedicated - it seems - to conceal evidence of a case of corruption. Have you not really thought wisely not to use the turn against this question, even if you expressed your opinion later on in the position-setting turn? Are you against the investigation of these very serious facts by using the turn against them? Look, it's very easy: It's about admitting mistakes, asking for forgiveness, putting in the means, and then Mr. Married will surely have nothing to do with it and we'll see what happens to Mr. Rajoy, but it's that easy; it's that easy. You can't use the Popular Party label just to hang medals; you also have to take responsibility for the things a party does, and it's under that blanket, under that label, under that brand, where Operation Kitchen is produced. Look, you three, Podemos, PSOE and PP, you can't teach anyone lessons; you can't give transparency lessons, you can't give honesty lessons. I propose to you that maybe you could set up a seminar to see how to corrupt yourself better. Can you imagine what title? How to better corrupt a politician, with the subtitle What to do when caught. I do not have time to irony about the great speakers who could give lessons at that seminar, both of you, and of you, as well as of you. [[Addressing the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Addressing the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú]] Look, Citizens took Chaves and Griñán out of politics; Citizens when he has reached agreements with the People's Party he has asked that those who are accused do not hold political responsibilities; Citizens have brought into this House the anti-corruption law, the law that was called omnibus law, the law that was called anti-corruption law and that I want to call today Calvente law, with the name of Podemos' lawyer; name that we would not know if that law was in force because that gentleman would be protected by the State and the judges could freely, without pressure on the complainant, investigate the politicians who steal, and this gentleman would not cry in his statement before the judge of Central Court of Instruction No. 6 in his capacity as complainant. I'm going to bring back the anti-corruption law, I don't care if they vote against it, I'm going to bring it back; not a step back in the fight against corruption. That's how citizens are and that's how I am. They're not going to tell me that all politicians are the same, I haven't spent twenty-seven years of my life fighting corruption, fighting corrupt people, to be told now that I'm also a corrupt politician, like you. [[Protests]] No, we're not all the same. We're not all the same. Some of us aren't like that. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u44	Mr. Bal, you have to finish, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u45	And I end up as I usually do. Let's be responsible. [[Protests Continue]] They embarrass me again, I'm sorry. They embarrass me again. [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u46	Mr. Bal, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u47	Yes, if you leave me, Madam President; if you leave me. I'm done. I've got nothing left, really. Be patient. [[Protests]] Be responsible you and you offer solutions. [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Addressing the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Yeah. They pay us for that, not for giving voices, not for booing. [[Protests.-Applause from the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u48	Thank you, Mr. Bal. [[Pausa.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Protests.-Mrs. Moro Almaraz: We are not corrupt.-A Member of Parliament: A little respect.-A Member of Parliament: That you withdraw it from the Journal of Sessions.]] Quiet, please. Mr Bal, we understand that the words were figurative, not that I was calling the whole House corrupt.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u49	They were in the figurative sense, absolutely in the figurative sense.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u51	Thank you, Madam President. The evils they've made me do to save Barbas' ass. This is precisely what we want to know: what evils did Villarejo or Francisco Martínez or Jorge Fernández Díaz have to do to save Rajoy and the corrupt government of the People's Party. Because in addition, let us remember, these evils are done by officials and public officials with public resources to defend spurious interests, such as concealing corruption, and so that members of the Government, including its president, could evade the action of justice. It's absolutely embarrassing. And it doesn't end there. Every day we know new information that makes more descend by the sewers, also by the state sewers, the performance and credibility of the People's Party: espionage, microphones within Congress, plans of kidnapping, blackmails; actions that, if confirmed, would also confirm the People's Party as a criminal organization, and with the participation nothing less than the President of the Government, the Vice President, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister, Secretary General of the People's Party, among others. They are information that must be confirmed, of course, but also that must be investigated politically, because they are extremely serious acts of irregular and illegal use of public institutions. That is why the People's Party has no legitimacy to deny itself to this Commission, especially when the PP made corruption an art and a permanent way of life. And is it true that your defense, Mrs. Blanco, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that no one is interested in what they did nine years ago, even if it was stealing, spying, blackmailing or planning kidnappings, or that the PSOE and Podemos are also corrupt? Do you really think this is where the 'and you plus' is used? One thing is certain: the regime of 78 is a pit without a fund of corruption and rot, and it is not reformable, because corruption in this case is structural. There is therefore a need for a democratic break, a break that did not occur at the end of the dictatorship in order to allow progress to be made in democracy, in rights, also in the rights of peoples, such as the right to self-determination, but above all to clean up and dispose of all the waste inherited and accumulated over the past forty-five years. Also the judiciary, in that justice so agile when it comes to pursuing democratic rights, ballot boxes, as on October 1st, and sovereignists, and absolutely blind and mute in the face of corruption, especially institutional corruption; because with a fair justice with its Party Law at this point the People's Party would today be illegalized. I think you're very aware of that. It is a pity that on this occasion the corrupt refer to the former President of the Government with a recognizable name such as the Asturian or the Barbas, because the M. Rajoy of the papers of Bárcenas was too difficult to identify. Let's see if that's possible. In any case, we are in favour of investigating to banish once and for all corruption - and I conclude - the deplorable policy, the partisan use of institutions to expose the state's sewers. The question we ask ourselves from the BNG is whether this will be possible in the Kingdom of Spain, and we already know the answer. In spite of that, despite our scepticism about the ability of a Commission of Inquiry to bring to light all the truth about these corrupt and deplorable practices, it is necessary and inexcusable to try it and an opportunity that we cannot miss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u52	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you so much. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u53	Thank you, President. In Junts per Catalunya we are very aware of the politicization not only of the Ministry of the Interior, but of many other elements of the Spanish State. In fact, we suffered repression while ruling the People's Party and we continue today to suffer repression by governing this government of change, the progressive government, the government of socialists, Podemos, Comú, etc. Today's October 1st. Today's October 1st. Today, three years ago, Catalonia planted all this corruption in the Kingdom of Spain. Today, three years ago, Catalonia planted a violent and repressive Kingdom of Spain. And today, three years ago, the Kingdom of Spain was consolidated as the shame of Europe. Having said that, it is undeniable that the People's Party is the most corrupt party in Europe; and it is not a personal assessment, it is a fact. In the Kitchen case, which motivates the request for the creation of this Commission of Inquiry, stands out a character as sinister as Jorge Fernández Díaz. He, along with the independence liquidator, Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, orchestrated the Catalonian operation to defame the independence leaders. Now let me focus on the explanatory statement presented by the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can, which says - and I quote textually -: It is unacceptable to use partyist for political purposes of the forces, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior is clearly an abuse of power that violates the essential rules of democracy. You're absolutely right, but do you know what's going on? That you are no longer credible, the socialists have long been unbelievable. Let me read to you what the media published just under three years ago regarding the findings of the Patriotic Police Commission of Inquiry. It had been requested to refer to the Prosecutor's Office the indications of partisan use of the Ministry of the Interior, but the initiative has not come forward by the vote against the People's Party, citizens... They voted against sending this to the Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Bal, but, listen, he has had a great speech. And also with the votes against the PSOE. And it is that the Spanish political system works in this way; from time to time they manage, as today, from time to time they cry a little, as today, but at the time of truth, the People's Party and the PSOE, the PSOE and the People's Party cover each other's shames. The vote against the People's Party to investigate the link between Felipe González and the LAGs is a recent example of this; in fact, the art of looking elsewhere before corruption is practiced by you, both, perfectly with the Royal House. We will vote in favour of the creation of this commission of inquiry, as it could not be otherwise, just as we voted in favour of investigating the link between Felipe González and the LAGs, just as we voted in favour of investigating the corrupt monarchy of the Bourbons, just as we voted in favour of investigating the terrorist attacks of 17 August 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils, just as we will continue to vote in favour of the right of self-determination of Catalonia, and just as we will continue to condemn the repression exercised by the police and the patriotic judges of the Kingdom of Spain against a peaceful and working population such as Catalonia. Perhaps the day will come when you Socialists will do the same. Then and only then will you be able to call yourselves progressives. Dream Catalonia free, free political prisoners and exiles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I'll start with a pre-compulsory one. Today is three years of a day that will last for years. You - some of you - could not with the dignity of the people of Catalonia or sticks. Viva Andalucía libre, Gora Euskal Herria askatuta, alive Galicia ceiba, visca los Paisos Catalans. [[Applauds]] Bad day, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, isn't it? One bad day the truth is that it has anyone; for you, in everything that has to do with thefts, it is almost always a bad day. Mali, Timbuktu, I have tried to choose a country where you surely have no business - I hope -. Mali, Timbuktu, imagine that a government party uses a para-police force to hide evidence from judges. What would you do - if you didn't have business, uh - what would you do? Man, I'm sure to say we have to look into it, right? But, of course, what can we expect from a party that is literally dealing politically with the lives of Madridns and Madridns? What can we wait for? What can we wait for? [[Protests]] [[Applauds]] By the way, if Mrs. Ayuso disobeys a BOE order, will she be disqualified or will she have to put up a banner saying she won't obey? [[Applauds]] I read you something: In the Ministry of the Interior, under the mandate of Mr Fernández Díaz, a police structure was created under the instructions of Mr Cosidó Gutiérrez, by order of the DAO Eugenio Pino, with the knowledge and consent of the minister, intended to hinder the investigation of the corruption scandals affecting the People's Party and the follow-up, investigation and persecution of political opponents. These decisions have led to unacceptable partisan use of the personnel, means and resources of the Department of the Interior. Do you know what this is I've read? These are the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry into Cloacas three years ago, three years ago. This is known three years ago, that you believe this country is your courtship is known three years ago. Welcome to be a commission of inquiry now! There's an anecdote that's not the first time I've explained. In one of those interrogations that we did in the previous Committee of Inquiry, one of the last participants was Commissioner Eugenio Pino and I remember that, as if it were the final scene of some good men, the truth is that I pressed the gentleman quite closely. [[Rumors]] The gentleman came with his lawyer, something that at least is quite auspicious, and he didn't answer anything. Then I beat him for the patriotic band because, because she's very patriotic, she knew it was going to sting him around. Then, at one point, I asked him: Are you, Mr. Pino, very patriotic? He said, "Man! Sure! And I asked him, "What is patriotic?" He replied: You tell me. And I said to him: No, no, man, the champion of patriotism, you tell me, what would you do for Spain? And he said to me, "By Spain I would do everything." I said, "Everything? And he answered me: Everything. It is on YouTube and I think it sums up very well the enormous distortion that you have of what it is to be patriotic. Because it's everything; it's everything and I think I'm perfectly understood. We in this Committee of Inquiry hope that Villarejo will come because the truth is that we are left alone asking Villarejo, perhaps because he has worked for fourteen Ministers of the Interior. Fourteen, not just from the People's Party. We hope to know who the Beards are - although we have some suspicion - and we hope to know who the Little One is - although I think we also have some suspicion of who she is. A warning, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: garbage always floats, always floats. And you can come here with the most hooligan of all of you and start screaming, start insulting and start talking about very absurd things, but the trash always floats and we will always be there to point it out, because you, as has been said, are not a political party, but a corruption machine. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u56	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations Group We can, today I have to say with great regret that they have achieved the only objective they pursue with this Committee of Inquiry: to drag the People's Party into the mud, a mud, a mud that is its natural habitat. It is precisely in that mud where you move comfortably, because from the crisis, from destabilization, from chaos is where you draw political revenue. The worse it goes to Spain, the better it goes to you, and you are conscious, but since you have no scruples, what you do is encourage it. Today they have turned this Chamber into an authentic championship of corruption and their mutual reproaches between the bench of the left and the bench of the right have only remembered something that the Spaniards have very clearly and is that their way of understanding and exercising politics has led to an absolute degradation of the privilege that represents the Spanish people, a show that, unfortunately, we are accustomed to. Yesterday the Madam President made an appeal to the whole House which, Madam President, I have to make mine because I fully share it. There is a minimum that is required of us all: education. It is very basic and it is supposed that everyone when we enter and we have the honor to assume the high representation of the Spanish people we have learned, but I want to add to that education that the Madam President yesterday demanded of us all that the education that is due to us is institutional. What is reprehensible yesterday is not that the right-wing bench should raise its voice to a clearly biased interpretation of what should be understood as freedom of parliamentary expression, what is reprehensible yesterday, and consistently in each and every session we hold in plenary and the Commission, is that its excellencies should make use of that freedom of parliamentary expression and this forum of speakers to utter insults - very serious insults to the political adversary - and to destabilize the institutions of the State. The last example we saw yesterday at the executive bench with Mr Garzón and the President of the Government himself, of whom we all hoped he would support his majesty the king by discrediting the grave accusations made by ministers of the United Nations Podemos. He didn't live up to the circumstances. But in the afternoon, in the Committee on the Interior, once again the President, who is here today, had to draw Mrs Carvalho's attention because she once again demonstrated and displayed that sign, which is not a manifestation of freedom of expression, as the President herself has had an opportunity to warn today, but a clear manifestation that you do not know how to be, Mrs Carvalho, and you do not know what parliamentary decorum is. [[Applauds]] We're not offended by your sign, Mrs. Carvalho. I personally am offended by the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which implies that I exhibit it and I am deeply offended by the insult that it represents for the millions of Spaniards, who pay you 4000 euros a month to act as a buffoon in this Congress. [[Applauds]] Operation Kitchen was brought to justice in November 2018, on the occasion of information published by the newspaper El Mundo and in relation to which the illustrious magistrate De la Mata was very attentive and turned into a piece and today judicial case. Since then, the secret of summary has been kept until September - the Socialist and United Party We can proceed to characterise ourselves in February this year - and since it was lifted, if in any way we agree with the information we are knowing is that it is very serious. They include an alleged assault on a private home. And we also allegedly know today that the bag of whoever was once the all-powerful Vice-President of the Government served not only to replace a President of the Government, but also to carry computer devices to sweep in this House. They are accused whoever was the driver of the former ex-director and now national police and former police, including Mr Villarejo, to whom, by the way, he defends - this is a small detail that his lordships have not seen fit to mention - who was a magistrate, disabled by judicial prevarication, lawyer Baltasar Garzón, who today we know shares something more than a blanket with his unworthy public prosecutor general. Finally, political leaders are also accused. In particular, to date, the former Minister of the Interior and the former Secretary of State. If the information that is appearing turns out to be true where it has to be demonstrated, that it is in the judicial seat, this parliamentary group defends and maintains that it has to fall all the weight of the law on those responsible, because they have committed one of the greatest indignities that can be committed in democracy: prostitution the institutions of the State and staining the good name of our Forces and State Security Bodies. [[Applauds]] But today in this House we are not going to support your request, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of the United Nations. We are going to abstain, for two essential reasons. You do not have the legitimacy to submit this request, and I will explain it to you so that no one will be duped and no one will accuse us once more of beatings. They lack moral legitimacy, because it is true that political legitimacy holds it. And they lack that moral legitimacy because only two weeks ago they have proceeded to block a request for a commission of inquiry on the illegal financing of the United Nations We can, indicating the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group that this was due to the fact that public explanations had already been given by the United Nations We can and to the fact that all the investigations that had been carried out to date at judicial headquarters had been archived. Mrs Lastra, all very reasonable and very consistent with what we are seeing today. [[Applauds]] Mr.Sicilia, they have pied with the People's Party to maintain the deadlines for criminal investigation imposed by the parliamentary roll of the absolute majority of the People's Party in 2015 and so today, despite the reform proposed by the United We can, they have all reached an agreement to maintain the procedural deadlines, all except VOX. Of course, if something has been shown by the Socialist Party that it maintains a complacent attitude to corruption and that it maintains a contradiction in terms when we see, for example, the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group publicly announce that they will go against - and excuse me, Madam President, because it is literal diction - the whores and, however, do not refuse that high offices of their party in Andalusia can be spent up to 14 000 euros on prostitutes. Something extraordinary. [[Applauds]] I conclude, Madam President. I have announced to you that our parliamentary group is going to abstain for two reasons. The first is that they lack legitimacy and the second is that we are clear that their only objective with this omission of investigation is to punish the People's Party in the liver, and for this they do not care to go ahead with the institutions of the State. Mrs. Lastra, Mr. Marlaska hasn't told you everything, I assure you. In this committee of inquiry, not only are those who were in charge during the People's Party government going to have to appear, but Mr Marlaska and the one who is known as Commissioner Lenin, and I suppose we will all be able to venture into what are the reasons why he is known by that name. I hope that the ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations can support that request. And, since you have no scruples of any kind to get ahead of state institutions, I reproach you that at the worst possible time, when the Spaniards need our time to meet their real needs, you will have us use it in a commission of inquiry that, Mr.Sicilia, must have been a lapse, but you have announced that the conclusions will be known within three years...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u58	Mrs. Olona, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u59	..., in their application they speak of three months. But it is true that the Commission of Inquiry that was agreed in this Congress on the illegal financing of the People's Party was scheduled for six months and ended at two years; certainly, without conclusions, because they failed to agree the Socialist Party, the United Podemos and Citizens in the opinion of that Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, although - as I have told you - we are going to abstain from voting on this request for a committee of inquiry, we are going to have a very active participation in it. In addition, Mr Rufián, you have no idea what an interrogation is, but you will know it, because I personally am going to participate very actively in this committee of inquiry for a single purpose by this parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u60	Mrs. Olona, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u61	...which is defending the State Security Forces and Corpses. Because your biggest crime, Mrs. Lastra, is that you have the keys to the oatmeal. Those keys to the affluent represent opening up to the parliamentary groups that share their hatred of Spain and our State Security Forces and Bodies, as they have shown in this session, and that they are going to make a casus belli and a general case of this commission of inquiry to attack the honorability of our State Security Forces and Bodies.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u62	Mrs. Olona, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u63	Well, I tell them VOX will be there to give them a voice. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. I remind you that you can vote only from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I also remind you that those Members who have already cast the vote through the telematics procedure cannot do so again from their seats. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] PROPOSALS NO LAW : [[VOTING]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON ACTION TO PREVENE AND AFFECT THE PENOMEN OF 'OKUPATION'. [[File number 162/000386]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. No-law propositions. No bill by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on measures to prevent and address the phenomenon of octopus. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 109 plus 240 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 39 plus 116 telematics votes, 155; against, 70 plus 110 telematics votes, 180; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u66	The non-legislative proposal is rejected. - the EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU Parliamentary Group on Minimum Inter-Professional Salary and Derogation of Labour Reforms. [[File number 162/000067]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u67	No law proposed by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group on inter-professional minimum wage and repeal of labour reforms. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 109 votes, plus 240 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 1 plus 24 telematics votes, 25; against, 98 plus 176 telematics votes, 274; abstentions, 10 plus 40 telematics votes, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u68	The non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u69	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, on the government's forecasts to address the biggest impact of the crisis in the Canary Islands due to its unique features and its reflection in the State's General Budgets for the year 2021. We shall proceed to vote separately on points. There are six points. Vote on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 238 telematics votes, 347; 109 plus 222 telematics votes, 331; abstentions, 16 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u70	Paragraph 1 was therefore adopted. We voted for point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 238 telematics votes, 347; 109 plus 222 telematics votes, 331; abstentions, 16 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u71	Point 2 was adopted. Point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 238 telematics votes, 347; 109 plus 221 telematics votes, 330; abstentions, 17 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u72	Point 3 was adopted. Point number four. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 108 plus 238 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 38 plus 125 telematics votes, 163; against, 2 telematics votes; abstentions, 70 plus 111 telematics votes, 181.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u73	It was adopted. Point number five. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 238 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 39 plus 122 telematics votes, 161; against, 2 telematics votes; abstentions, 70 plus 114 telematics votes, 184.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u74	Point 5 was adopted. Point number six. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 238 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 40 plus 130 telematics votes, 170; against, 3 telematics votes; abstentions, 69 plus 105 telematics votes, 174.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u75	Point 6 was therefore adopted. - the people's parliamentary group at the conference, so that the government can benefit from the alarms recently made known in connection with the economy and the employment of the Spaniards. [[File number 173/000024]] [[VOTING]]
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u76	Motion for an urgent call by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for the Government to value the alarming forecasts recently made regarding the economy and employment of the Spaniards. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of Amendment No 1, tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 239 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 39 plus 115 telematics votes, 154; against, 70 plus 115 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 9 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u77	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u78	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 236 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 108 plus 212 telematics votes, 320; abstentions, 1 plus 24 telematics votes, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u79	Opinions were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u80	Requests for the establishment of commissions of inquiry. Request of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common for the creation of a commission of inquiry concerning the illegal use of troops, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior, in order to favor the political interests of the PP and to annul incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption, during the mandates of the Government of the People's Party. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109 plus 239 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 70 plus 136 telematics votes, 206; against, 25 plus 63 telematics votes, 88; abstentions, 14 plus 40 telematics votes, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2020-10-01-CD201001.u81	The establishment of the Commission of Inquiry is hereby approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was eleven o'clock in the morning.
